ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u1	114. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 /German press 287/ - 3rd reading I would like to ask Mrs Alena Schillerová, the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mrs Vostrá, to take her place at the rapporteur's table. The amendments have been delivered to you as House press 287/4 and the draft accompanying resolutions have been delivered to you as House press 287/5. Both materials were also distributed to you on the bench. I would remind you that the examination of the draft State Budget Act is governed by Sections 101 to 106 of our Rules of Procedure; the draft law does not order a guarantee committee to discuss it. Before I open the debate, I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostroa, to present a set of amendments, accompanying resolutions and to make a proposal for a voting procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, given that it has already been said that it has not been ordered, or that it is not a budgetary guarantee committee, so let me ask you at the outset, before I propose a voting procedure, whether I will not have to say my views as rapporteur. Given that these opinions would not be for the Committee on Budgets, but only my personal as rapporteur, I think it is fair for the Chamber of Deputies to decide that in this case it will make an exception, as it was in the previous vote on the state budget, and it is a vote that I will not say opinions on individual amendments as rapporteur. Then, when we vote, I would like to vote for the House so that it is legally captured and it is clean if there is a consensus. As regards the procedure for voting on the State budget of 2019, the draft procedure would be the following, unless, of course, there were any comments. First of all, we would vote on Amendment A1 as set out in the text section of the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, Annex 1. This concerns the creation of a new Chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency. We would then vote on the A2 proposal, which is also an amendment in the text section of the Committee on Budgets, but it is amendments to Annex 6 and Annex 8 of the Act on registers. Furthermore, we would vote on the amendments to the figures, which is Annex 2A, contained in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, namely that A1, A2, A3, A4 on a case-by-case basis, with the adoption of paragraph A4 of the Committee on Budgets, then it will be unvoting, because it is identical to the amendment of the Committee on Budgets. Furthermore, we would continue with the amendments in the figures set out in Annex 2B presented at second reading, with a view to expressing and taking a position first on Amendment B82, and then voting points B1 to B98 individually with the exception of points B74, B75, B76, B24, because these points, and this is the proposal, will be decided by the House, these points are unvoted because they lack item specifications. When we deal with all these amendments, we should vote on the resolution as a whole, and if the Act on the State Budget as a whole is passed, then we would proceed by voting on accompanying resolutions, according to the press 287/5, so that once again, individually after the points as they are ordered. You have the prints 287/4 and 280/5 on your desks, so it should be clear what we will be voting on. That's my draft voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u3	Yes, thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening the debate on this point at the third reading, as well as on the proposed procedure, and, at this point, President Kalousek is the first with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief opinion from TOP 09 on the vote of the draft State Budget Act. We have tabled a number of amendments, and we will support a number of amendments made by our fellow Members from other parliamentary clubs. However, regardless of the outcome of the vote on the amendments, please understand that we cannot vote in the final vote in the third reading for the bill, for the parameters already defined at first reading. At first reading, we offered an alternative, less wasteful, less irresponsible, this alternative was not accepted, and therefore, as stated in the revenue, expenditure and balance of the state budget, this is totally unacceptable for us. It would be a good budget if the end of the world came next year. Then I'd understand him. Then it would have a purpose. But I suppose the end of the world isn't going to happen, but that's how the government drafts the budget. Interestingly, I saw recently in some survey that, due to massive propaganda, half the population think that while we were suffocating investment in the crisis, we were strangling the economy, the Babišův government and Sobotkův's government started the investment. The opposite is true. This year's investment is much less than the investment in the last crisis year 2012, and for the first time in the next year it will be a little more than the investment in 2012, but please do it by just 8.5 billion. Although the government has 353 billion more on total spending than in 2012, only 8.5 billion will be investment. But 75 billion will be the salaries of civil servants. The salaries of civil servants and the number of civil servants, that is the real government priority, but that is not where the future of the Czech Republic lies. [[9.20 hours]] The total amount of investment in state budget expenditure is falling. The ratio of expenditure on science and research, one of the key indicators, as we think about the future and the modernisation of the country, is falling. While we reached at least 1% in those crisis years, because science and research were the only chapter we refused to cross out at the time, we are now at 0,75. The ratio of spending on science and research is constantly falling. I am looking at the benches of esteemed fellow Members of the ANO movement, I see several faces of the rectors who were magnificents at a time when I was the Minister of Finance, and I remember their criticism, criticism of the ratio of GDP spending. It was significantly higher than you're planning for next year, but next year it's about 0,75 percent of GDP, which is a completely ridiculous number, even ridiculous compared to what we were giving at the time of the crisis. You're probably okay at this point, you're not rectors now, you're yes MPs now, you're better now. What really grows is the salaries and expenses of civil servants, non-investment purchases, social benefits, and there is a whole range of completely senseless, but expensive measures such as a discount on transport for students and pensioners, flat, regardless of their property status, free lunches regardless of the property status of those children and their families. And I assume that when the European Commission's audit is carried out at the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund, it will also be necessary to proceed to free breakfasts and dinners. This is the budget policy 'after us the flood' reinforced by the fact that the government is completely ignoring its proposal for increasing the risks of economic recession. I don't want to scare you, we don't know if it's next year, but we know it's coming in any case, in a year, two, maybe three, but it's totally out of the question. It's just that the economy has its cycles, the risks are increasing, and the government is acting like it's not true. She acts exactly like if we had a house by the river and knew that sooner or later the flood would come, and they wouldn't do anything at all, they wouldn't do any flood measures, because we'd say, well, she might not come. Well, maybe it won't snow until December 16th. But it snowed until December 16th, the flood would come and the recession would come too. And so there will be so much pressure on the public budget, on the state budget with this structure, that it will be very difficult to manage and, paradoxically, it will fall on the weakest and the poorest, because the strong will always help each other somehow. It is irresponsible to the future, so it is unacceptable and cannot be approved. The TOP 09 will therefore vote against the draft state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u5	Thank you. There were two factual points, first Mr Juránek, then Mr Vondrák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u6	Hello. Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, ministers and ministers, I have a supplement to points B74, B75 and B76 that the rapporteur has been talking about right now. It is not possible to change anything in the item listed here, but it is possible to add the text and in all three cases I complete the text under heading number Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport. At this point it says "decrease the expenditure of Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport by an amount" - in each item differently - 39 853 440 in B75, 465 746 392 again with other subsidies for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure. In point B76 I add to the 300 million under the Ministry of Transport item, it is the chapter number 327, the text "other subsidies for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, the coverage of deficits in the SFDI budget'. At the same time, as part of the procedure, I suggest that point B76 be placed from logic before point B14.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u7	Thank you. Mr Juránek was kind enough to show us what a factual point should not look like, because, while you said that you were responding to the rapporteur, so I let you speak, but please, it would be better to use the factual ones in response to the previous speaker in the general debate. Mr. Vondrák, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As the indirectly addressed rector of the university, I have to say that in one year I had to cope, and our university, with a budget drop of CZK 135 million. That was more than 10 percent. The disadvantage of the current presidents is that they must cope with the increase in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u9	A point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u10	Certainly not science and research. If so, then it was only because the Ministry of Education wrote it differently. It is evident that expenditure on science and research did not fall in times of crisis. That was the only item that didn't drop. When the ratio of expenditure on science and research really falls to GDP, it is the current budget and next year's budget, which clearly signals how important this item is to you. While spending on civil servants is growing, the ratio of expenditure to GDP is falling on science and research. That's what you see, ex-magnificence, the future of the nation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u11	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Rais. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u12	Have a good day. I'd go back a little bit to that history. Here in the absolute figures of the years 2008 to 2012, of course there are also subsidies involved, or simply money from the European Union, which at the time in the field of operational programmes, those major centres of excellence, only in Brno made billions of crowns. So we're comparing incomparable numbers. The second thing is, when we talk about percentage, obviously if I have a bigger base, then I have a smaller percentage. So these relative comparisons here are very tricky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u13	Thank you. That's how we used up the factual notes, and with priority rights... No, Mr. Farský cancels his application. So we're going to continue according to the order you see on the board. The next one is signed up for the debate, Mrs Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support the amendments tabled by our Club Mayors and Independents. Our amendments are based, of course, on our priorities, but we have also looked into the Government's programming declaration and found that most of the amendments, i.e. our priorities, are also the priorities of this government. I therefore hope that I can convince you and you will support these amendments. This is an increase in the salaries of educators, which we are increasing by CZK 5.3 billion, so that there is an increase to almost 130 percent of the average wage compared to 2017, which is, of course, also found in the government statement, which says that they will make more money into education for teachers' and non-teachers' salaries, to at least 150 percent of their amount for 2017. And we're doing this because this year, or for next year, it should be...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u15	So, I'm gonna ask for the peace that's just come. Let's try to hold him off for a second. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is so that the 130 per cent is gradually increased to 140 per cent and to 150 per cent in the following years. Another amendment is support for kindergarten schools, or an increase in the grant title for the construction of kindergarten schools, and we increase the grant title at the Ministry of Education by 300 million, because projects for the construction of kindergarten schools are prepared for almost CZK 4 billion, with a building permit. At the last grant title at the Ministry of Regional Development, applications were met only for 420 million, requests came for 2 billion, so it is obvious that the need is really great. We will also find this in the government's programming statement, which says that "we will provide sufficient capacity for kindergarten schools by strengthening and efficient use of national and European financial resources." So I hope this too is good to consider. And if the government wants to secure sufficient funds in national titles, then you can support this amendment. Another priority for us, and as the Prime Minister also said, is the promise for the regions to repair the roads of the second and third classes, with the fact that this amount should be 4 billion. However, the Prime Minister also stated that this amount is not in the next year's budget, which is why we have made it easier for him to work and we have prepared an amendment that found the 4 billion to repair the roads of the second and third classes which would be intended for the regions. Last but not least, we also need to think about municipalities and their local communication. The mapping of the needs made by the Association of Local Authorities shows that local communications of CZK 18 billion are needed in municipalities of up to 250 inhabitants. The Ministry of Regional Development has published two grant titles for smaller municipalities and for municipalities from 3 thousand to 10,000 inhabitants and there is a total amount in one title of 190 million, in the other 200 million, which we think is insufficient, and therefore we propose to increase both of these grant titles to a total of 310 million crowns. And if we look at the government's programming statement on the roads of the second and third classes, we will find a paragraph that says: "We will adopt rules for financing regional transport infrastructure through the SFDI budget in order to provide funds of 4 billion per year for them." That is, if it has been said by the Prime Minister that these funds are not in the budget, it is contrary to the Government's programming statement, and so I ask you to support our amendment. As far as local communications are concerned, we will also find in the Government's programming statement that it will contribute to the investment fund, including in the area of local communications. What is also at our heart, to us starosta and independent, is the restoration of cultural monuments. You know there are monument programs at the Ministry of Culture that are designed for more than 40,000 cultural monuments. These cultural monuments are not funded from the European Union, which is why we think that the amount of 737 million crowns is really very low, and we are increasing these monument programs in two variants by CZK 150 million and the second proposal says CZK 263 million. As I noted on the Education Committee, the Minister announced that his priority was to increase these grant titles by CZK 150 million. And we will also find this in the programming statement that "as far as the state budget is concerned, we will gradually increase the allocation of funds in individual programmes." Given that it is quite often mentioned here when the state budget is being discussed, that if funds were to be raised for monuments - we are filing this amendment every year - so if these funds were to be increased, the state budget would collapse. I don't think so, but I think that if the sights and their restoration aren't financed enough, the cultural monuments could collapse. And I think that would be a great shame. Of course, we also think about firefighters and increase their support by 300 million precisely on the costs of the Fire Rescue Corps for smaller investments that have been neglected in recent years and for which money has not been received. And, of course, you can also find the support of firefighters in a government statement. Last but not least, I beg you to support the amendment concerning so-called elementary school lunches. It is a grant title that speaks and supports just weaker groups of children whose parents do not have money for lunch, and of course these children do not go to lunch, which has a major impact on their development. At the Ministry of Education in the grant title, it is intended for non-profit organizations, which, in cooperation with class teachers and with school directors, choose the children who are somehow handicapped in that they cannot go to lunch and also carry out social work with them, respectively with their families. This concerns 10,000 children using this programme, and not only with the help of the state budget, but also non-profit organizations. Nonprofit organizations are mapping the situation and saying that there are about 100,000 children at this risk. This subsidy title has not been increased for three years, and we therefore think that, given the increasing need, it is good to increase this subsidy title by CZK 10 million. This is, of course, a better solution than the introduction of free lunches, because this subsidy title targets the weaker families. [[9.40 hours]] Then allow me to ask for the support of two minor amendments. One concerns the monument of Jan Palach, which is in front of the National Museum. There is a small amount of only 3 million crowns. And then, of course, the amendment, which shifts funds from the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom, and we move it to the Czechoslovak Legionary community, with Larischův's villa being reconstructed. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support our amendments, which are the priorities of the Mayors and Independents, and, at the same time, most of them, according to the government's programming statement, are the priorities of this government. I hope you can at least support some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u17	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura is registered with priority rights. Let me read you a few apologies. She apologizes to Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá - no, she begs to cancel her apology as if it had happened. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes between 11.30 and 14.00 for reasons of work. Mrs Tereza Hyťhováťhová also apologizes for work reasons. He apologizes in time from 9.00 to 9.45 due to delays on the highway, Holomčík. That's all. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we are before the final debate on the state budget for 2019. Our country is rich in itself. We have quite a lot of money, but the government is incredibly wasting it. Instead of supporting decent and working people or saving up for worse times, it only tightens the screws more and more to pull more money out of people under a false pretext of serving citizens. The deficit budget is a very bad step in the current economic situation. But it would not have to be in general, because each of us can imagine a situation where it is advantageous to borrow money for a profitable investment that will generate profits in the future. But that is not the case with this government. Ladies and gentlemen, there are all kinds of percentages and millions of where they should go, in or out. Very funny are the sorrows of, for example, the percentage of implementation of the defense budget, while Prime Minister Babiš talks about the next transmission of Czech soldiers into combat missions. We should know what's behind this. The desire of armament companies to have secured a regular piece of a billion-dollar pie. That's all. The interest of the state is completely opposite. The state wants to have a secure defense, with the highest efficiency. Defensively, the percentage is reported to be missing. And it is these days that the Supreme Audit Office has informed us that the Department of Defence is not using objects worth CZK 6.5 billion. We remember the news when the defense gave billions of privates to babysit all sorts of objects. In other words, we've been paying billions of private security, where disability pensioners and people with the lowest qualifications work to guard our army. It's so absurd that no scriptwriter could invent it. Although we have seen similar pieces in the past. Let's remember KDU-ČSL, and what caused the contract with military parachutes that sewed moms on mother's kitchens in Bystré u Polička for KDU-ČSL member Mr. Andrlík. Without consequences, the army also rustled at the direction of politicians for example 19 billion for fictitious modernization of tanks. I mention the above for one reason only. When anyone here is operating on numbers as many as they need, it would be nice to have an idea of what, why and how the money will be spent effectively. This is the biggest problem in every budget. Mechanical throwing billions here and there without knowing how to deal with them in practice. The governments and ministers who draw up the budget and then spend money should watch as much as possible how money is handled. Obviously, that doesn't happen. All you have to do is look at the billion-dollar contracts that the Supreme Audit Office is investigating. In the 1990s, the European Commission published the book Factor Four, in which it described in hundreds of cases that even under then technology, a quarter of energy could be saved in the economy. A simple exchange of appliances, a change of consumer behavior and so on. This premise pays even more in the Czech state's management. On the one hand, we could make people's lives cheaper and more comfortable, and on the other hand, we could save hundreds of billions by making work and investment more efficient. President Miloš Zeman requested information from the head of the SAO Miloslav Kala about how the Czech state works. And the President of Kala's Supreme Audit Office sent a letter to the President in which he added his comment from the last annual report of the Office. The President called the letter a terrifying reading. The head of the Supreme Audit Office warns that the Czech state is in the tow of the economic interests of financial groups and bureaucracy is suffocating the development of society. He also mentioned a number of examples of money being lost. As one example, Kala presents health care. The Faculty Hospital spends 2.5 to 7.7 billion crowns a year on purchases. The system, however, according to the president of the SAO, is completely non-transparable. In three years, for example, hospitals bought the drugs for 5.5 billion and medical devices for 5.1 billion without procurement procedures. That's scandalous, and it's the government's fault. The purchasing system in many examples represents a non-discriminatory practice that goes against the principles of effective and cost-effective management of public funds, warns the Supreme Audit Office in its annual report. There are huge differences in the prices of medicines and medical devices. Hospitals buy the same medicines at prices with a difference of CZK 33,000 per package. It is quite common practice that one supplier sells the same medicine to different faculty hospitals at different prices. The same drug was overpriced by more than 60 percent, says the Supreme Audit Office. And there is a system of bonuses that the president of the NKÚ Kala considers to be a grey zone of Czech health care. As a result, for example, the pacemaker had a different price across hospitals and 83,000 crowns. And with the cardioverter, there was even a difference of CZK 520,000 apiece. Dear and dysfunctional, according to the Supreme Audit Office, we also have a social housing system. In five years, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs paid CZK 60 billion to support housing. Moreover, the Ministry of Regional Development and the State Housing Development Fund gave 1.8 billion to support social housing. But now let's look at the real comparison of these numbers and find out the crazy state. They only supported 2 647 housing units. By contrast, Slovakia paid 3.8 billion on housing subsidies during the same period and supported 27 897 housing units. Of this, 3.2 billion were paid for the purchase of rental flats and 7,944 housing units were supported. This means that we see here how the Czech government works. In the knowledge of these facts, we should not ask how much more to feed the Ministry of Regional Development, but where to get a whip to finally spend money with reason and purpose. Plus, things aren't getting any better. In 2005, 310 socially excluded localities were in the Czech Republic and 80,000 people lived there. In 2016, this means after eleven years, there were 606 such locations and 115,000 people lived there. Inefficient and bad is also the management of money for science and research. According to the Supreme Audit Office, the Czech Republic does not achieve average innovation performance either. Among the countries of the European Union, the Czech Republic ended up 13th out of 28 places in 2016. A separate chapter is regional development. There were various partnerships within the municipality. According to the Supreme Audit Office, however, it was just a demonstration of the absorption of the allocation of the end-of-the-programme period at all costs and at the last moment. And that's how I could continue the ministry after the ministry. Yes, Prime Minister. He steals everywhere - and you had a historic opportunity to do something about it. But you didn't. Moreover, despite promises that the budget will not be in deficit, our debt will grow again. So the real results of this government - and again I say that these are all the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office - are truly trivial. [[9.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, some might argue that the opposition is being criticized. But the fact is, if anyone's applying for government, for ministerial seats, they have to assume that in exchange for a good job, they're gonna have to do some good work. What our country needs today is a strong reduction diet. Not Kalouskův at the expense of pensioners and socially weak, but at the expense of all leeches and parasites sucked into the state budget. And it is not only profitable political nonprofits like Transparency International and others, but hundreds of strong lobbyist groups, when they are up to date, for example. our almost monopolistic suppliers of large buildings, such as motorways and railways. The tragic state on the D1 motorway is a demonstration of the state's absolute inability to award contracts. Building companies slowly and poorly is not all their fault. They do what the state has allowed them to do for decades. If we are to approve Mr. Transport Minister Took even one crown, the first thing I have to ask him to do is make sure that the crown is used effectively. And not as it is today. How, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to guess how many billions we're gonna put on the highway when these billions are taken apart by a few literally known companies again and we're gonna be stuck and half-crashed roads again? We cannot support this budget under the SPD because the government is increasing the benefits that are inadequate. Indeed, he refuses clear help for working families with children. It supports financially political non-profit organizations or finances military missions of the Czech army abroad. The government has ignored and neglected our comments. And I would now briefly stop at the amendments that we will be voting on, and we have also proposed on behalf of the SPD. The amendments are about 3.5 billion. The crowns and basically the circuits are as follows. We are proposing an increase in money to support citizens with disabilities. We propose to move the money from inclusion in education, which we disagree with, to the chapter of special education. That means we support special schools. We also propose to raise money to fight the crust. We're suggesting mine. also move money from the chapter to the development of combat missions, combat forces abroad, which promotes this government, i.e. fighting missions of the Czech army abroad, and we propose to move money on the contrary to defend the Czech Republic so that the army has more money to defend the Czech Republic. And we also have other amendments, and it also concerns disabled people and people with disabilities and other amendments. In short, we do not want to support any, I would say, political non-profits, some inadaptable people, but we want to support decent and proper citizens. So thank you for your attention and I also ask for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u19	I thank you, and now with priority rights, President Farský. I'm sorry, there are two factual points. First Mr Jurečka, then Mr Dolínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u20	Hello, Mr President, Dear Government, Dear colleagues, Colleagues. I, of course, would like to respond here in the context of the technical remark to Mr Okamura through Mr President. Of course, we generally agree that it is not good to build such a budget at a time of record economic growth. We also see in Slovakia that the Prime Minister of Smer, a socialist, can eventually build a balanced budget. Unfortunately, the Czech Government will not be able to do so next year at this time. The budget has fundamental flaws, such as. Unreal financing of social services, which is significantly severed and all founders in the Czech Republic and their employees are in a difficult situation for next year. However, you were here talking about some things, you were here questioning some things in the past, and it also affected KDU-ČSL. I wanted to make a public call here, Mr Okamura, through Mr President, if you have any new facts to be prepared to convey to the law enforcement authorities. Alternatively, if they're watching this, they're doing it, because you're here pointing out some alleged machinations that were done from the KDU-ČSL point of view. I have been a member of the KDU-ČSL for 19 years and I am not aware that KDU-ČSL should somehow have the ambition to influence these things in the spirit as you have spoken. So if you have the facts, please tell them. If you don't have them, don't talk about things you don't have the facts. If the police have investigated these matters, they have not investigated any errors, so it is good to respect these conclusions, or, as I say, to base these matters with real facts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u21	I thank you and another point of fact, Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u22	Good morning. By addressing the author of Mr Okamura's speech and not his, I do not have to do this through the President. I would like to tell the gentleman or lady who writes speeches to Mr Okamur that it is necessary to choose a dictionary based on the history of the person to whom the speeches are written. I'd read one thing here when we're on the state budget and the public register with the parasites. Tomio Okamura was raising money from the party at his expense. The contract proves it. The current party, Tomio Okamura SPD, likes to say, is against corruption, tunnelling, extortion of state money. But the great question mark hangs over his action in the Dawn of Direct Democracy. These question marks mention reflex etc., etc. [[The speaker reads information from his cell phone.]] The money was collected by the head of the Dawn, according to the weekly, for offering marketing and media advice to the movement. Okamura admits it was happening, etc. Of course, there's a question mark coming up over the things that were through someone. Czech TV was interested in two PR agencies and 10 minutes and found one thing: premium payments, contracts without a specified price, official residence in a dilapidated house used by homeless people does not testify to any good name. This leads to suspicion that the companies were actually helping and whether they were using media communications, or whether they were merely serving to extort millions of state contributions. - We're at the parasites. Both companies are weird at closer examination. Even if they're supposed to do marketing things - if I simplify it - they don't have a web presentation themselves. So, bottom line, if Mr. Okamura was making the money as he planned, he took 45.9 miles out of the state budget. Crowns. So please, who writes speeches to Mr Okamur, write it in his past and do not insult decent people. By the way - I'm a sunshine man and a welcome man, and I'm proud of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u23	I thank Mr Holík for the near-accurate respect of the time and to respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u24	Mr President, gentlemen of the Ministers, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to take the liberty of responding to my previous speaker through the President. I was a member of Dawn. I was one of those guys who stayed with Tomi. And I have enough background on where the money went. But there wasn't a penny left for Tomi. On the contrary, we all put together and paid for it. So, Mr President, come to me, I'll give you copies of some 60 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u25	Thank you. We have dealt with the factual points, and President Farský has come up with the priority right. I'll ask those who have a need to discuss what's going on in the hall so they don't do it in the lobby and yell at each other. Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief remark on the budget for 2019. It's the mayor's and independent club's opinion. And I will try to be as brief as possible. We have been experiencing an unprecedented positive time for several years in terms of budgets filled with high employment, high economic growth, in which our fundamental partners are taking themselves to the West, and therefore this period benefits us. It could be expected that in such a period, reserves will be made for a period where not only the Czech Republic's economy, but also our fundamental markets and partners in the European Union will not work so well. [[10.00 hours]] But there is a budget presented for 2019 with a deficit of 40 billion. CZK, on top of that - well, we - the coalition pushed through at the last meeting to dissolve reserves, which were in the National Property Fund of about 20 billion. CZK, so the real hook is around 60 billion here somewhere. Kč. If you add that more funding is coming from the European Union every year before it leaves, we are really getting to the amount that will just be missing in that budget, and we are getting to 100 billion somewhere. This is a situation that can be apologized for. It could be explained by investing in major growth measures, and the investments that would be put into the economy at the moment, so they will return significantly to the economy thanks to investment in the future. And what are the most pro-growth investments where each crown issued returns the most in multiples? It's education and it's infrastructure. The value and greatest capital of this nation, this country, is in its people. If we have an educated workforce, if people have a better education, they will also have higher incomes, they will have higher contributions to the state budget, they will finance pensions, and we will just get better. But if you look at these crucial chapters of the state budget that decide not what the popularity of the ruling party will be in a week, two weeks, a month or a maximum of a year, but how we will be in the Czech Republic in ten, fifteen, twenty years, so if you look at these two basic chapters, you can see that the promises that were made around education about the fact that, for teachers who are one of the worst-paid higher education professions, we will finally raise their average salary to 130 percent remain on paper. Although we have all promised this before the elections and said how we will get to it as quickly as possible, that every year that runs away is a shame, so also in this budget, there are no such funds. Instead, the government is talking about paying free lunches for rich parents' children. That's what finances are for, but they're not for well-paid teachers, and they're not for high-quality education? Of course, we are not at all opposed to contributing, even giving free lunches and meals at school where parents have the money. But why are your kids supposed to get free lunches? Grandsons? Does that make economic sense to you? Isn't that just another one of the bribes that are given in the budget to take another day in power? Second chapter - infrastructure. Results so far? For this year 3.7 km of new motorways and current motorways are more of a parking lot than what would move material around the Republic to increase the economic strength of the Czech Republic. And the infrastructure? The solution of the government, which brings that on scrambled trains and broken roads, will make fare cheaper. When you add up these two chapters, free lunches and extra fare, you get a lot more than 10 billion. It would be rich enough to finally add enough to the teachers to become prestigious jobs through their evaluation. And for the future - and yes, I admit it is not that you will buy your popularity next year, but that the Czech Republic will have revenue in ten, fifteen, twenty years and you will set prosperity for your children. But this budget just isn't like that. This budget spends, you buy votes with this budget, you buy expensively, you pay dearly for the sins of your chairman to cover them up, so that the voters will allow you another few days in office. But you are selling the budget to the future of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u27	Thank you. And with priority rights, Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a few things that I would quite like to respond to in relation to the budget. I'd start with what my typical bang-up humour here was, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr. Kalousek, when he was joking that we didn't expect it to snow on December 16th. I'm going to explain tomorrow at that special point how we just didn't have a chance but to accept the displacement of that term because there would be a much bigger problem. But let me quote - and here I would like to quote to Mr Kalousek, through Mr Kalousk, who is not here, from the press of 2005, namely on June 17, when Mr Šimonovský writes here that he will start the expansion of the D1 motorway in 2007 and in 2010 the D1 motorway will have three lanes in all sections. That means if that promise was made by the KDU-ČSL ministers, then Mr Kalousek was there, there was no problem at all. The problem on highway D1 is long-term. I'd still like to quote what I liked very much here. A truck driver's resting place is also being built so that they can observe mandatory security breaks. Commercial entities are very interested in construction according to the Ministry of Transport. Within two years, there should be about a thousand new parking spaces for trucks on the D1 motorway and other motorways. I'm asking where they are. We didn't do very well. We who have really begun to repair the highway are now the target of criticism. I would also like to respond to what President Okamura said here through Mr President, about how Czech companies are having sex here. It's not true. First of all, we're competing at much lower prices. And unfortunately, even that section 12 we're talking about, there wasn't a typical Czech company that had sex. I have to be here, even if it's not my job, to make sure that our suppliers work to a large extent. And the fact that one of us falls apart at the construction site is a big problem. And finally, I'd like to respond to those comments about not stopping by. I do not know where Mr Farský, through Mr President, came up with his figures. But what he said here, in Saturnin's words, you could very successfully doubt that it's true. I'd like to show you a graph here that I'm very often showing. The fact that today he said that there were 3.6 km of new highways when we subtract modernization of D1, is true. But why? Because no one has prepared them, Mr. Chairman. If you look at this graph, what the government or the Department of Transport built for my leadership, I'll show it here, so please look at the blue column is the number of highways we started. [[shows]] And in my case, it's complicated that I can basically only open that section of highways that I started because there was nothing going on before. And if you look at the number of motorways Mr. Šimonovský started, or I did, you see a big difference here. So if you use true information, what you're saying is clearly a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u29	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. First Mr Zaorálek, if I can see well, he was not seen for a while, but he is coming, then Mr Benešík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u30	Thank you. Good morning. I signed up for the speech of the previous speaker. I guess I didn't make it fast enough. But I won't forgive myself for reacting to it, because I'm prepared to have to listen to a lot of things here today, but I think it's hard to put up with the repetitions of those old, over and over again. I would like to draw the attention of both my colleague and the House to the fact that, of course, investment in education is important, but putting it in the context of economic growth is rather naive. I could give you examples of countries that thought that investing in education would automatically contribute to growth, and that, of course, does not work that easily. Something else is to increase the quality of education, something else is also to increase the quality of institutions, such as the organisation of work in companies and the like, these are much more pronounced tools for strengthening economic growth. But the idea of just pouring money into your education and getting it back in your growth is just not true. That's got to be a little bit of an issue. And the other thing. I think that the idea that he's going around, he's going into consumption while he's supposed to be getting into education is also a senseless idea. When this speech started with the praise of economic growth, I would like to point out that if anything was the pull of economic growth in this country, it was private consumption. In fact, the fact that a few years ago the government ended up with a savings policy and started by using growth, raising incomes, and raising pensions was the most significant stimulus today for why the economy is growing. I'd like those who perform to stick to some basic truths so that it's not possible to say anything here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u31	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Benešík, will be prepared by Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u32	Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Šimonovský for KDU-ČSL was Minister in 2002. That was quite a while ago, so comparing today's situation with 2002 or 2004 doesn't seem entirely objective to me. Reconstruction or modernization, if you like, D1 started in 2012. It did not start with Minister Ťok or Minister Prachař, but it started much earlier. Unfortunately, I have to say as a user of D1, the train does not arrive twice a week, I have to be flexible, so after D1, I enjoy it twice a week, that the restrictions in the winter period used to be there absolutely regularly. I really didn't know there was no plan to do anything about it when it snows. It just snowed once, and we found out that no one was ready for it, that he was just a sklendrian and a management failure. That's just the way it is. I also want to say that I don't ride the blue stripes, we drive the roads. Who started what, I really don't know. I'm interested in what's been built in this country after five years, and it's really not much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u33	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Farský, then Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u34	Thank you for the speech of Minister Took and Mr Zaorálek's colleagues, but I beg to differ. As far as motorways are concerned, the YES movement has been under the Ministry of Transport for five years. How much longer are you gonna make excuses for the past? It's been five years, of which four years are sitting there Minister Took and the result is that this year it will open, I said 3.7, Minister Took 3.6 km of highways, I'm sure it's right, 3.6 km of highways. How many more years is she gonna make excuses for that? I understand we have a difficult construction process. But who's responsible for him? Ministry of Regional Development. Who has the Ministry of Regional Development? The YES movement. And we've fallen by 29 rungs over the past year in terms of the speed of obtaining a building permit for 156th place in the world. We are one of the 40 worst states in terms of how long it takes to get a building permit. We're at Niger level. That's where you got us. And what about investment in education? I was talking about pay first. I agree that it is also necessary to work on the quality of education, on the effectiveness of these expenditures, but Czech education is so underfunded especially in the personnel area, and it is of course also a question of the past, when the finances were not there and we kind of drove in inertia to debt. But there is a need to add funding to teachers, and for that there is no need to create complex reforms, complex processes, to invent something challenging. There is simply a need to add funding to put in a better candidate for this job, to gradually leave those who do not have a job there, and were replaced by better teachers. It's that simple. So now I'm not talking about education reform, I'm talking about putting out a fire that's just here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u35	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Now, President Bartošek, President Kalousek will be ready. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u36	Just for a little while. I would like to ask my colleagues, we are talking about the budget, it is a rather comprehensive material, so I would like a factual debate on the budget. Second thing. It is a pity that the Minister of Transport has left because I wanted to respond to him, and I wanted to ask him to keep these Filipikas for tomorrow, when the question of dealing with motorways is firmly classified, there he can testify, and we can respond to that and not burden the debate on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u37	Thank you. I think I'd like to join that. The next is President Kalousek with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u38	Thank you for the floor. As much as I agree with President Bartošek's appeal to stick to the budget, please understand that I cannot respond to the speech of Minister Jok, who directly mentioned to me when the Minister was the minister for four years, a year longer the Ministry of Transport controls his movement. When he responded to my bonmot to the fact that it snowed on December 16th on D1 he looked into his iPad, he quoted something from 2005, it was 13 years ago and he said: Who is responsible for the problems on D1, it was Kalousek's fault. Minister of Transport, collegial advice: Try telling Mr. Prchal to think of something else for you. You won't even get eaten by doughnuts anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u39	Another factual point, Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Bartoň. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna respond to a colleague. It's about the impact of consumption on economic development. The problem with our economy is that we are highly dependent on the external economic situation. Basically, if there's growth abroad, it's with us too. If there's a drop abroad, so is ours. This is precisely why we think it is wise to create a pillow during the growth period so that the government can support the domestic economy in the event of a crisis. After all, in times of crisis, it's much cheaper to build that infrastructure. And what's going on here? We are worse prepared for a possible crisis than in 2008, at least according to the National Budget Board's analysis, which is an independent body that we have set up for this very reason. According to them, we are worse off than in 2008, with regard to the possibility of the government in the event of the crisis to bail out the economic downturn by increasing government consumption and, above all, investing in infrastructure. And that's what we blame the budget for not working with this risk at all, and that at a time when money from government to consumption is really needed, it just won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u41	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Bartoň, then Mr Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u42	Thank you. I would, if I may, respond to Mr Zaorálek. By your means, Mr President, Member, to say that education is not an investment in the future, or to slander that investment in education is not a priority, that is beyond that. Investing in education is one of the best investments the state can make. Unfortunately, he doesn't have that effect until a long time ago. [[10.20 hours]] These are investments in education, investments in the quality of education. And investment in the quality of education is the basis for raising the salaries of teachers so that we have quality people in education at all, so that someone can educate us so that they can educate future workers. And it is the well-educated workers that are the basis of the economy, that there are value-added businesses, where there are higher salaries, and which are the basis of the customer's ability to buy things, that he has money. Of course, education is an investment in the future. It's the best investment the state can make.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u43	Thank you. Another factual point, President Bělobrádek, then Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u44	Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, I would like to give a hint to my colleagues from the YES movement when they say who is responsible, so I want to sign up for the debate on why trains between Brno and Prague are not on time, and there is no alternative to D1 as it appears in health, social and so on. Yes, he is to blame for this KDU-ČSL. Finally Jan Šrámek was Minister of Health, Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Railways and Minister of Telegraphs. So it's really our fault for what it looks like now. We have to sign up for this, Jan Šrámek just did it so historically that today, against all regulations, logic and common sense, barriers to D1 will be placed on the ground so that even maintenance cars can not ride properly. Yes, it's our fault. Just Jan Šrámek as the Minister of Railways is to blame for the wrong trains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u45	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Kaňkovský, then President Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u46	Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, we should talk about the budget. However, the debate outside the budget was brought here by Minister Ťok. I'm sorry, the space was supposed to be really tomorrow. However, if the minister of this government says that the state of D1 is responsible for someone who ruled or had the Ministry of Transport 16 to 12 years ago, it really seems out of order to me. And I think it's unworthy of a member of the government during this parliamentary term. I'll compare it, I'm a paramedic, so I'll compare it to a patient coming to me who broke his leg on the wrong sidewalk, and I told him, well, it was the mayor who was worried about me 15 years ago, because he was supposed to fix the sidewalk back then. That is similar to logic, and I think it does not belong in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u47	Thank you. Another factual point, President Farský, then Mr Zaorálek. Please, you have the floor, Mr President, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u48	Thank you for the floor. It'll be short. I just think I've come up with an explanation as to why Minister Ťok says they've completed 3.6 km, and I've listed 3.7 km. The message isn't old, maybe you still remember it. The completion of the D3 motorway at Ševětín is hindered by the error of the official. The state road manager can't complete about 50 meters of highway because he couldn't properly redeem all the land in 2017, when it was expropriated, and within 60 days of paying for the expropriated land, the clerk simply couldn't. And this is not the fault of past governments. That's 2017. These are your problems with which you burden the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u49	Thank you. I hope we can get to the debate on the state budget today. Another factual point, Mr Zaorálek, then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u50	Thank you. I hope for the last time. But I wanted to respond to Mr Ferjenčík. In principle, I agree with him. It's not that I'm dramatically refusing it. But there's only one thing I'd like to add to that. It's true that this is about getting ready for the crisis. She'll come sooner or later. And it is also true that we are too dependent on what is happening around us, precisely because we are an export-oriented economy, we are actually living off what we deliver. And that is why I think the importance of private consumption is essential. She's actually... maybe in Austria like this, it's the best pillow for how to handle the crisis, just because the economy isn't only export oriented, but because it has a high level of consumption, so she's able to provide the best pillow not to be so dependent on the external one. That is why I was convinced that this period until the next crisis should be used to increase consumption in this country, in a reasonable way, of course, to increase revenue, to increase pensions and to create something similar, to compare it to what we know from the very neighbouring Austria. Consumption is the driving force of the economy. And consumption is even a protection in the event of a crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u51	Thank you. Another factual point, President Kováčik, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mrs. and gentlemen, I would also like us to return to what we have written on the board, to the government bill on the state budget. And let us do so as soon as possible. This firefight that's going on here, whoever started it may be a little productive, but it would be more productive if what we're talking about here has been expressed in the vote. However, I do not want to take anybody's right to speak at any time and to anything under the Rules of Procedure. Just a little point, perhaps. When I hear everything about the past governments or the past, how the bearers of the past and the past rule are resisting it. What do you wonder, through the President's esteemed folks, when one or the other failure or trouble is brought upon the government ten or seventeen years ago? I mean, even your mouth makes accusations sound like this or it's the Communists' fault. But they haven't ruled here in 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u53	Thank you. Another factual point, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u54	Mr Farský and Mr Zaorálek. When you say, Mr Farský through Mr President, that the problem with Ševětín is from 2017 and that previous governments are not responsible for this, you underestimate the marketers of the YES movement. Ševětín is in southern Bohemia. I'm South Boy, too. Don't doubt that Kalousek will be responsible. I would like to point out to Mr Zaorálek that his sentences on fiscal impulses are ripped out of the context of the truth, but do not correspond to the phase of the economic cycle in which we find ourselves. In order to intervene with fiscal impulses at a time of crisis, which is needed in a time of crisis, we must have something to do. And what we'll only get out of if we don't cut unforgivable deficits at the time of growth. We are now in the cycle of economic growth, although it is slowly ending, and in the last five years of growth, you have provided fiscal impulses that have been completely unnecessary. You should have saved for that time of crisis, or you should have used it even better at the costs of the necessary structural reforms, which you are merely talking about, but you are doing absolutely nothing about them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u55	Thank you. This ended part of the factual remarks and Mrs Balcarová received a duly signed-in. Welcome back to the state budget discussion. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really wanted to talk here about the budget of the Czech Republic for 2019. This is an absolutely crucial document for the direction the Czech Republic will take not only in the following year, but also in the following years. When studying the amendments, I could not help but notice that many amendments are being taken from the environmental chapter of the Ministry of the Environment. When I looked better, I found that most of these amendments were removing climate and air protection from the spending block. [[10.30 hours]] I wanted to ask my fellow Members on behalf of the President: do you really think that air quality is so good in the Czech Republic that you can use this chapter as an item? I think we all know what air quality looks like in the Czech Republic, that 86 percent of the population lives in areas with poor air quality. Over 6,000 people die every year as a result of bad air! Hundreds of people, hundreds of thousands of people are sick, children are sick, they have various respiratory problems, because of air pollution they have broken immunity, and you want to take this right here in this chapter, which concerns air quality? I understand that education is important, social matters are important, but the health of the population, I think it comes first. That's one thing - air quality. The second thing is climate. I think that colleagues who are watching the news have noticed that there has been a climate conference in Katowice in the last 14 days, where over 200 countries around the world have agreed that they must quickly address the response to climate change. They must try to reduce the greenhouse gas discharges that directly affect the warming of the planet. In October of this year, an IPPC report was published, which says that if the planet gets warmer by more than 1.5 degrees, there will indeed be catastrophic effects not only on the conditions on Earth, that is to say extreme climate fluctuations, extreme rains and droughts. What we experienced over the past five years for years in the summer, when it was dry throughout the Czech Republic. So it is important that the Czech Republic also take steps to protect the climate, so that we stop being an energy scandal, so that we stop being an energy dinosaur, which is focused on burning fossil fuels, but that we move towards a modern state that responds to the current challenges, such as climate change. I wanted to tell you some particular sense of this spending block climate and air protection. This includes projects to reduce emissions from local heating sites. We all know how polluted the air in some municipalities is because of the poor quality of fuel burning there. That is where the expenditure from this spending block is headed to climate and air protection. In fact, even today, when there are over 6 billion, the money is not enough to replace boilers and stoves to significantly increase the air quality in the municipalities. So that's one thing - supporting local heating sites, reducing emissions from local heating plants. The second thing is to reduce pollution from stationary sources. All those living in the Moravian-Silesian Region, Brno, Prague, Ústí Region know how large stationary sources pollute air and how poor quality there is. And especially now in winter it is visible - the smog situation in big cities, but even in municipalities it is bothering almost all residents of the Czech Republic. So I'm asking you not to take the funds that are in this chapter of the Ministry of Environment in the expense block climate and air protection. This will enable the Czech Republic to move towards a modern state that responds to the current challenges that protect the health of its inhabitants and the quality of life of its inhabitants and which looks responsibly in the future and responds to the challenge of combating climate change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u57	Thank you. Good morning, dear colleagues. With a factual remark, Mr Leo Luzar is here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u58	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the words that have been said here, because my Moravian-Silesian region has been mentioned, unfortunately, in connotation with significant stationary polluters, large resources. I would like to correct the honored colleague by your means. The Moravian-Silesian Region has a long-term project and programme to regulate and repair these polluters. We are now in a state where only one third of this pollution represents these large stationary resources, which is a huge success, and unfortunately today we are getting into the fact that the larger polluters are the small local polluters, the heating sites and more and transport. Those are the big problems we have in the county. And, of course, a long-term appeal situation in the context of cross-border pollution from Poland. Perhaps this will be improved thanks to accession agreements, when Poland ends the exceptions and they will have to start thinking more environmentally about their production. But I would hate for this to be confused, and I understand where my colleague was going, but not to use the example of the Moravian-Silesian region, which in this very case encourages those who are great to invest in ecology. Unfortunately, the pressure on small polluters precisely because they are small and have no financial resources is quite problematic. So I wouldn't want to confuse it so there's no pressure on the big guys -- let's start cutting them down, and let's just kind of forget they exist. I'd hate for it to end that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u59	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and we are going back to the debate. Mrs Jana Krutáková, Mr Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the other two amendments tabled by the Club of the Mayors and Independent Movement. The amendment as House document 1866, in the voting table under number B59, concerns an increase in funds to ensure the preparation of land adjustments of 200 million. Kč. The second amendment, led as House document 1919, in the voting table under B60, concerns the financing of the restoration and maintenance of cultural and rural elements and is also an increase of 200 million. Kč. Both of these amendments aim to preserve the landscape in the form in which we have taken it and to pass it on to our children in even better shape, as he says. the Government's programming declaration. Thank you for supporting these two proposals and for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u61	Thank you. Another in the debate is Mr Lukáš Bartoň, Mrs Golasowská will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When the government made its programming statement, I was glad that we finally had a government for which education is one of the priorities it wants to fulfil, and as we see in our budget and in our education budget, it is greatly increased. Unfortunately, this is not a priority for the government. I can say for the pirát that this is our top priority, so I would like to comment on the budget for the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, for two months now, I have been trying in vain to include a resolution on the agenda, which we, as the Chamber of Deputies, have almost unanimously adopted for the past budget. This resolution concerned the salaries of teachers, and I would like to remind you of paragraph 2 (a) of this resolution when As of 1 September 2018, the Chamber of Deputies recommended that the government increase the salaries of teachers by 15 per cent and other staff in education by at least 10 per cent in order to achieve an average teacher's salary of 130 per cent of the average salary in the state by 2020. I would like to address this at the reserved point that we had, but even the Minister of Education was very pleased that he could speak to this, he told me that he was looking forward to this debate, unfortunately, the government Members did not allow this point to be included, so I have to open it here. [[10.40 hours]] As we all know, nothing has happened since September 1st. We do not know why, although the Prime Minister still promised in April that it would be since September 1st. Including the press statement by his media advisor, Marek Hanč, when he said that the Prime Minister promises this to every visit that comes to the Office of the Government, and he said so for some media. Unfortunately, there has not been an increase in salaries since 1 September, but we have a promise, and the state budget shows that there will be an increase from 1. 1. 2019. It promises 15 percent for educators. As I was now at the School 2019 conference, it will be more like 10 percent. Ten percent will go to the tariffs, it will come directly to the educators, and 5 percent may go to the educators if the regions forward it to them. The 5% will go to the edge, and probably since neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Education is here, so the Minister of Finance will fill me in if they are to check that the regions will send the 5% to fulfill the 15 percent declaration to the teachers' salaries. Why teachers' salaries? Teachers' salaries have been underfunded for a long time. If we are to address the quality of education, the quality of education, we must first have quality employees there. We must have a quality person who will provide us with quality education. That's why teachers' salaries. I don't think we can get a lot of high-quality teachers for a low-level salary. Now I don't want to touch the teachers who are in current education. I must say that some take this profession as their mission and would be there for half the average wage. But I don't think we should treat our own teachers like this, and we should increase their salaries above average wages. At present, the average salary of the teacher is almost comparable to the average wage in the state and the subsequent increase in 2019 will be above average. Unfortunately, I'm talking about average pay. Some salaries can be different. What I do not see, however, is that this trend will continue in education, keeping their salaries. The next point 115 is the budgetary perspective, where the government de facto admits that it does not want to continue this in any way. The appropriations are still at the same level as for 2019 and 2020 respectively, 2021. In fact, it admits that it does not intend to meet the request of the Chamber of Deputies or its own programming declaration. When I was driving around the county at the beginning of the year, I saw billboards - we'll add teachers. These billboards were the government movement YES. But it was such a misleading commercial. We'll add teachers, but which ones? Since the increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education for 2019 is about the addition of teachers only to public schools and only to regional schools, i.e. basic and secondary schools. There is no more talk about the salaries of higher education teachers, although they are teachers, and, for example, as an assistant in many schools, tariffs are on average 55 percent of the average wages in the Czech Republic, which I consider to be trivial. Of course, universities have their own budget. They have their own wage policy. And I'm sure one of the former rectors here will confirm that they have a policy of their own. However, if we do not add to the chapter from which universities can increase these salaries, we say that this does not concern them. So this applies only to regional teachers, namely those who are in state education, because private and church schools are not affected by this increase either. They don't have the increase until the year's delay. That is why we have tabled some amendments, on the one hand, to raise the chapter in the field of higher education to the salaries of teachers in universities, and also to join the proposal to increase the entry for private and church schools, so that they do not have to wait a year late to increase the money they have for wages. Once again, the fact that these salaries could have been increased since September 1st was possible. Unfortunately, as I learned during the intercessions, the government did not discuss our resolution last year at all. This has not been presented to the government and therefore the government has not been able to look for resources to increase salaries since 1 September. Therefore, they will not be increased until 1 January. And I'd also like to join... This resolution, which I have read, was the resolution tabled by the Education Committee. Once again, the Education Committee presents an accompanying resolution, which I fully support and which talks about how the funding for education will be further increased. Above all, there is a wonderful target item and that is 5% of GDP into education. Five percent of GDP would have reached the surrounding countries, such as Austria, compared to the OECD. And this money is no longer, it would no longer be for teachers' salaries, but mainly for the education quality system. Managed system of quality education for teachers so that they can provide quality education, which is kind of stagnating here, is a little lacking, so it is the means to increase the quality of education, further education of teachers, the quality of education of teachers in preparation at teaching faculties. That requires a lot of resources to be found in the state budget. At present, we are one of the most recent OECD countries compared to the rankings that do not put in education for these funds. This means that I would like to support the accompanying resolution. I would also like to support, for example, the amendment by my fellow Member from the school committee, Mrs Valachová, who also deals with the supplements for the classroom industry. Frankly, since there hasn't been a salary increase since September, we owe it to the teachers. Let's give it back to them at least in this form. At least a little more that we are aware that they should have been added since September. We promised them, they couldn't make it. Let's at least add some extra money in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u63	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mrs Golasowská. Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Unfortunately, I have to say that KDU-ČSL is very concerned about the lack of finance in the budget, namely social services. There is one billion missing, 800 million for social services and 200 million for social work in municipalities. We also hear voices that social services spending is still increasing, but I have to say that it is also for several reasons. The minimum wage will be increased from 1 January 2019. Next year, some European projects in social services will end. And we also have to say that the number of seniors and handicapped who use social services is increasing. I would like to point out that the salaries of social workers and workers in social services are by far below the average wage, which is now around 31,000. Hand on the heart, which one of us wouldn't want quality social services for his parents, relatives, children. We may use them ourselves someday. But if we don't put the funds into social services, the quality of these services will get very low, and clients in particular will know it, but also employees to whom organizations will not pay wages. [[10.50 hours]] Therefore, KDU-ČSL will not support the budget, which will leave thousands of employees behind and lead to a reduction in the quality of social services. I would also like to warn that these finances will be paid to social services over the course of the year. I must stress that this is the way to hell, because directors and social services leaders need to know in January what amount of money they will be managing. And if the funds are evened out in June or July, that's really not gonna help them. I therefore propose several amendments. One proposal concerns an increase in social services finances by 800 million. The second amendment concerns an increase in funds for social work in municipalities, which I have already said here. In the last year and the previous year, 400 million were allocated for social work in municipalities, and for this year it is only 200 million. Let us remember that municipalities have hired workers who will probably just have to lay off now because they won't be able to pay their wages. And another amendment concerns an increase in the drug policy programme, because that is also needed. We know that the Czech Republic is a country where there is actually the highest consumption of soft drugs, namely marijuana, so we certainly need funding for education, prevention, seminars, therapeutic communities and more. I would like to say a few more words on the amendments, which are also in the budget in the chapter Environment, and I must say that the KDU-ČSL proposals that take funding from the chapter Environment elsewhere, such as the Ministry of the Interior and others, will not support these proposals. I can say this as a resident of the Moravian-Silesian region, where the Moravian-Silesian region belongs to regions with the most polluted air. A part of this is agglomeration, transport, also a scattered building, where a large part of the population drowns in the form of local heating sites. Dust and pollution from Poland do not contribute to the improvement of air. We have more than 2,100 sources of air pollution in Ostrava, of which there are more than 400 in the territory of Ostrava. In the Czech Republic there are about 840,000 asthmatics, of which there are about 120,000 children under 14 years of age. And 6,000 Czech children suffer from difficult asthma. In adults, air pollution increases the potential for cancer, atherosclerosis, or diabetes, and accelerates the aging process. Children with lower birth weight or certain functional insufficiency are born, showing increased illness not only in their childhood but also in their middle age, such as an increased incidence of hypertension or cardiovascular diseases. The monitoring of air pollution in the territory of the Moravian-Silesian Region has demonstrated persistent problems with the excessive occurrence of dust. The permitted daily limit for dust 50 mg/m3 is repeatedly, often several times exceeded. Increased concentrations of pollutants in the air may not directly cause the disease at any cost, but often result in worsening of diseases, especially respiratory diseases and cordial vascular diseases. They also reduce the resistance of the organism, which is more easily subject to viral or bacterial infections. Therefore, I do not agree with the transfer of any amounts from the chapter of the Ministry of Environment to other chapters, because citizens in regions with heavily polluted air deserve to live in an environment free of dust and emissions. I would also like to hear the opinion of the Minister of the Environment on these amendments as to whether he is satisfied with the transfer of funds from his chapter to other chapters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u65	Thank you, Madame. Next in the debate is Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Jiří Mihola will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u66	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I would like to comment on what two of my previous speakers, President of the Committee on the Environment, said Balcarová, and the colleague who spoke before me, and then I would like to explain once more and support my amendments. The first one. Mrs Balcarová was very much in favour of the Environment chapter, and it has already been said from Mrs Golasowská that this should mainly be done by Minister Brabec, who has arrived, is here and will probably also be able to do so. But perhaps it would be good to say where the means are directed, which amendments mentioned in the statements of both colleagues from the chapter of the Ministry of Environment are to go. They are directed to the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture to address the direct impact of the already existing changes that are taking place, namely the resolution of the consequences of the barking calamity, or the solutions to the effects of drought that have plagued our country in recent years. While the Ministry of the Environment, of course, deals with some things systemically, I am thinking about environmental issues, so it solves this in the form of subsidies for improving citizens' heating sites in the form of the State Environmental Fund, otherwise the Ministry is unable to implement some major investment projects. It turns out that the incompetence is quite essential, and the money therefore remains there and will also be available from the previous budget period. That is why I think that rather than spending the resources to combat climate change, to fight it through some soft projects, it is better to spend the resources directly to deal with the consequences. I mean, it's often mentioned that one of the main perpetrators of the cruststorm is climate change, the warming of our planet, the warming of our republic as well. That is why I think that the money would need to be spent right now at this point in time on planting, on solving the crusty calamity, on stopping it, because it will, of course, threaten again next year. It is not so that the crusty tree ends with the arrival of winter, but he will of course continue even after the arrival of spring and summer, it is absolutely clear. That's why I think the money for this would be spent right. The chairwoman of the Committee on the Environment Balcarová also mentioned in her speech the COP24 conference that took place last week and the previous one in Katowice. It had a similar course to that of the Paris conference three years ago, and during the regular time it was not possible to agree on it, there were contradictions, mainly the contradictions between developed countries and less developed countries, which also pollute the atmosphere. In the end, the conference was extended, and it was dramatically held until late nights or early mornings, until it finally came to some noncommittal conclusion. [[11.00 hours]] And I must mention that one of the important moments of the conference in Katowice was the report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which was one of such questionable moments of the conference. This intergovernmental panel says that, unlike the years 2014-2016, when global emissions stagnation occurred, global greenhouse gas emissions are increasing in the past and in the current year; that the measures that have been taken, from which the world or environmentalists around the world have promised themselves much, are not yet being fulfilled. And the biggest pollutants, the biggest increase in emissions, is observable in countries that oppose the Paris conference, or at least neutrally, such as China, India or the United States. The European Union, one of its main supporters, reduces emissions, but only by about 0.7 percent. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] So the conclusion that the conference said, and that is the conclusion that has to be repeated constantly, that if we want to keep the temperature rise below 2 °C by the end of the century, with more ambitious demands below 1.5 °C, it will require rapid and fundamental changes in people's behaviour. People -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u67	Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, I will interrupt you because the noise in the House does not correspond to the seriousness and importance of this point. So I'd like to ask you, colleagues and colleagues...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u68	Thank you. So, people like you, Mr President, such as my fellow Members and fellow Members, such as our families, our fellow citizens, will have to assume, according to this intergovernmental panel, a very respected world body, the burden of the measure that we want to take to avert the rise in temperature. Limit the ride by car, limit the heating in the heating plants, grow other crops, change your behavior. But what we have to say here is that nobody talks to these people too much about it, nobody talks to them. In countries that are quite close to igniting a kind of spark of revolution, even if not yet violent, such as France, the measures that President Macron wanted to take, that is to increase the tax on fossil fuels, on diesel fuel in cars, to raise money to combat climate change, brought great demonstrations of the so-called. yellow vests that have significantly disrupted France's economy, at least as the media say. Nobody talks to these people about it, they don't know about the consequences, they think they're gonna take over the state, the burden of fighting climate change. But that's not true. State, these are individual citizens. The money of the state is the money given by individual citizens in their taxes. This is a matter to be taken into account and very responsiblely consider whether - and I say this with all responsibility and with the knowledge of a certain great controversy of this claim - whether to spend the huge money to fight the future situation, the future development for the whole century, or the solution to our current, immediate problems that we have, whether it be the barkstone or the long-lasting drought. So these are things which, of course, are worth mentioning even in the context of the discussion of our draft state budget. I would like to mention my proposals and proposals that we have made with my colleague Munzar. I have submitted two proposals, along with my colleague Munzar, a third proposal, which has the number V35. He proposes to take funds from the Ministry's two contributions and give them to improve the state of nature and landscape. It's always worth 10 miles. Crowns. I suggest we take money from the non-investment grant to non-profit organisations in the environment, where we take 10 miles. and put it on the program to promote the restoration of natural landscape functions. I've already said my reason here. Environmental organisations have sufficient funds, there is a budget point of 20 million. CZK and in the next item then the nonprofits have another 22 million. Crowns. These are generally support for soft projects, which are often covered by education in the field of ecology, environmental education. I think the role of education belongs to the school resort, to our schools, and, of course, there should be limits to the support of our environmentalists. Moreover, let us admit that these environmental non-profits often hinder the fulfilment of public interest. Perhaps it would be interesting to see how many planned buildings on the so many downgraded reconstructions of D1 have so far been blocked, but they have not yet started precisely because non-governmental nonprofits are being sued there. They've got 20 miles. I think it's gonna be filled with that grant program that's supposed to make the money, the 20 miles. divided - let's say that the nonprofits there would be diligent, that they would deliver two projects roughly in the range or in the volume of 100 thousand. CZK, and the nonprofits are in order, the active ones, like 50, so it'll be enough 10 miles. That's why I suggest we take 10 miles. from this item and put them on the item to restore the natural functions of the landscape, so that it can be specifically realized non-investment, but mainly investment projects just in the framework of the fight against drought, in the framework of the restoration of wetlands, rivers, ponds etc. And then I have another suggestion. This is a proposal that proposes, in turn, to reduce the budget of the Ministry's chapter under the international treaty, where it is now 250 miles. CZK, and put it back on another chapter, to subsidize municipalities in national parks. Municipalities in national parks are now quite significantly discriminated against. In Sumava, for example, there is a negotiation on zoning. According to the law we adopted, it is not the duty of nature conservation authorities to argue with municipalities, they only argue with the National Park Board. Those communities as members are participants, but only as members of the council. Each of these municipalities will only be dealt with by the authority if there is some pressure on it. And those communities are just losing. I mentioned a Modrava with a Kašperské Hory has 5 000 hectares in the first zone of the national park, compensation also relatively small, there is about 90 CZK per hectare. And the international treaties. Every time the budget is discussed here, I always try to make sure that these international treaties, which we pay in this way, are analysed for 250 miles. there is no small sum, and to say what the treaties have to do with our republic, if it is not just any participation in the treaties, in the signing of the treaties, which actually bring us nothing. Given that in one of the previous budgets there was a reduction of about 100 miles in this item out of the blue. Kroner, I think 10 miles. It won't kill, which is why I propose a change that I mentioned at this point. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an environmental chapter that belongs to the smallest chapters, about 15 billion. CZK, which is less than a percentage of the budget. So a tiny chapter, but as you can see, a chapter that interests Members, and I'm about the third performer to comment on this chapter here. So I would like to ask you to support the proposals that I have tabled under the numbers B33, B34 and the proposal that we have tabled together with my colleague Mr Vojtěch Munzar under the number B35. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u69	Thank you. Mr Jiří Mihola is next in the debate, and Mrs Jana Černochová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u70	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the support of the two amendments which are being led as House documents 1806 and 1807 and are in your notebook to the state budget between the amendments marked B39 and B40. The first amendment concerns church and private schools. I am glad that, according to previous speeches and discussions, education and education do not fit in. I am really happy about this, and I firmly believe that all the parties operating here in the Chamber of Deputies will honour their pre-election vows and focus the main focus on education and education. And we should try not only to keep promises in the sense that when you say twenty, fifteen is not twenty, so we really don't confuse the numbers. I mean the increase in teachers' salaries now, and I will be happy to encourage it to be according to the original promise, but we will not have any second or third categories of teachers in the Czech Republic. I am convinced that they really do not deserve this and that we cannot actually let that happen. I would therefore like to make this amendment to those church and private schools so that the wages of teachers at private and church schools are compared to those of teachers at public schools. There are many reasons. I was sorry that one of my colleagues, whom I otherwise respect, would not name one of the Members here, but he said to me as if there were enough public schools, enough places in public schools. It's almost as if the church and private ones aren't needed. But there's no way we can look at it that way. After 1989, we have voluntarily decided that we want an alternative here in the form of church and private schools, as it is in other countries, and it is useful not only for better selection, but especially for the quality that we all curse ourselves so much. And it's the key word, the quality. Yes, it's a key word, so it's okay. And it is no coincidence that, according to many indicators, ecclesiastical graduates are among the different winners of national competitions, and those schools are among the most wanted. I know the situation best, of course, in the city where I live in Brno. The highest overhang in church schools is not a coincidence. They're open to everyone. This is not, to be clear, a matter of churches or just certain communities. It's a school open to everyone, used by everyone. In this sense, I am also putting my hopes into the YES movement, which, in fact, as the strongest member of the government coalition in the programme statement, says that they will also pay special attention to church and private schools and compare their social usefulness. And I think, above all, that interest in society is the best indicator of the usefulness and usefulness and the quality that they offer. So please, let's just say in this state budget, let's really not put it off, let's just say clear not creating some second-class teachers. Just because a person moves to another city or gets a job at another school, notabene gets a better job, so he doesn't really deserve it with pay. And I know the environment well as a teacher with 25 years of experience. Moreover, we are demoting future teachers, which we have also promised to support, and we have also promised to support, of course, the faculties that future teachers are preparing. And there must also be a clear message that they won't be afraid that if they transfer from school to school, they can make their pay worse, or that they'll be waiting for a yearly call or a close call. A year is too long. Let's fix it now. Plus, please, it's not at the expense of the state debt or in any way dubiously based on the money otherwise. We know that the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has been increased, which is a good thing, which I welcome, and thank you for that, by about 30 billion. So I don't believe that billion and something that's needed to match the salaries of educators at church and private schools, could be found for that. It is specifically 225,5 million for teachers at church schools and 824 million for teachers at private schools. And please check, yes, I'm in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're But just as someone can say strictly: not all private schools are of the same quality, so I say yes, and they are not all state-class and so good to say, so we just need state-owned schools here. The alternative is needed and let's keep an eye on the quality and not just do the number two category by teacher's salary. The second amendment concerns the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. We are all also committed to this, and it is a good thing to promote science, research and innovation. I myself believe and believe that most of you here, that this is one of the few ways where the Czech Republic can really break through, thanks to smart Czech heads, unlike a number of industries where we have lost those positions long ago and possibly irreversibly or in the long term. So in the field of science, research and innovation, we certainly have the chance, and the results prove it. So here I would like to ask for an increase in the budget for the Academy of Sciences for 100 million Czech crowns, which is certainly not a dizzying amount within the state budget, but it is very important for the Academy of Sciences and, above all, it is important for supporting and increasing the wages of young, prospective scientists and scientists. Even there, we need to motivate people not to go into our private sectors and pay better wages for God knows where, but when they graduate and have already devoted themselves to that science, so that they will also be properly appreciated. And unfortunately, the scissors are opening because wages are rather low in the long run, or the wages are stagnating. And the sum of 100 million - the smaller part, about 20 million, concerns the increase in funds for construction and equipment of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, and these are investments that have already been planned for this year 2018. So we're actually going to do what we promised before. I understand the situation that when the regional education budget was being funded and supported by the medical faculties, it was all necessary that it was actually taken from various sources and, among other things, from the Academy of Sciences budget, the 100 million. But please, let's put it back. It's necessary. And, as I said at the beginning, we all point out, and it is a good thing that we stress that science, research, innovation needs to be supported. So please, let us also implement these words here by supporting these amendments. Thank you for your attention and please support these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u71	Thank you for your performance. Mrs Jana Černochová, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues. I wanted to ask for your support in several amendments, which I will introduce to you shortly. These are amendments which are listed under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 1822, 1821, 1739 and 1721. At the same time it is possible to track them in Annex 2b. Amendments to the figures for the draft State Budget Act and to the draft State Budget for 2019 presented at second reading. It's House Press No. 287/4. Amendments to the Government Bill on the State Budget and the draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 under the designation B/46, B/45, B/44 and B/77. It is probably no surprise to anyone that my amendments are mostly about defence, and surely many of you have already heard from me the concept that is used in macroeconomics, "butter versus weapons." I would like to remind you of this notion before the final vote on the state budget for next year. We stand before this dilemma of butter versus weapons, colleagues, each year at the approval of the state budget. Are we going to invest in defense or the civilian sector and social welfare? I am well aware that only one approach will never prevail. We must always find a compromise, because every responsible politician understands that the state always has less resources than the needs it needs to meet. But I am very foreign to the attitude of all socialists and populists to throw away the means we have and until we have something, and when we don't, it may work out somehow. I can understand this approach of some of you, but I'm not going to support it for a second. One economic crisis convinced us that defense is the first place to start saving in the event of a slowdown or decline in the economy. At such a time, the dilemma of the weapon versus butter is the strongest in economies such as ours, where a developed social system cannot be cut off at the moment of economic turbulence. I certainly don't like the fact that defense is usually the first to start saving and cutting. Unfortunately, we have also witnessed this in the time of the economic crisis, when the Ministry of Defence participated in the ODS. The figures flagrantly show that defense and security spending are fluctuating according to economic developments. We have been growing for several years, and as long as it is, we have to spend more on defense. If we have a vision and we think about the future, we must not step idly on the spot. We should admit that we do not live in the utopian world of eternal peace and eternal times and never otherwise. But unfortunately, we see what's happening around us talking about the opposite. Today, when the economy is going well, we must invest in defence, but also in security, not just to eat money, figuratively and literally. Not only because we promised to spend more money in defense, both to our allies and to ourselves, our responsibility for the future. On individual amendments. Increase defense spending by 4 billion. It is B/46, the number of the House document is 1822. Here, as you know, according to the Alliance's recommendation, the Czech Republic should issue - not only the Czech Republic, all countries should issue - at least 2% of GDP in defence. Every year, of course. And unfortunately, in our country, despite economic growth, we have been approaching this goal very slowly in recent years, so there is reasonable doubt as to whether we can achieve it by 2024 or 2025. The promise that this would happen was repeated by representatives of the Czech Republic on the ground of the North Atlantic Alliance. Remember, colleagues, that the presidents of the coalition parties of the previous Sobotkův government, in which the representatives of the ANO movement, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL were representatives, signed an agreement that the Ministry of Defence's budget would reach 1.4 percent of GDP in 2020. This promise has also been postponed and is now to be achieved only in 2021. If I wanted to be sneaky, I would also recall a whole series of acquisition processes, which, according to the public declaration by the Ministers for the ANO movement, were to be in bows, but eventually they were re-examined, until they finally moved on to the next years. The modernization of our army has so stood and its startup goes very slowly. From the Army of the Czech Republic there is information that budget growth is slower than expected to accumulate projects and therefore it is already missing and will, of course, also be missing in the coming years for the desired modernisation of up to tens of billions of crowns. Modernization of our armed forces is crucial because of the unstable international security situation to ensure the defence of the Czech Republic and its credibility in the eyes of the allies in the North Atlantic alliance. Membership in this organization brings an unprecedented degree of security and prosperity to our country. You, who are also following some of my statements or working with me in the Defence Committee, know that the European army is not an alternative to NATO for me, and I am not a fan of our country's involvement in any way in this project that some countries, particularly France or Germany, are talking about. The proposed increase in the Ministry of Defence chapter would allow me to draw closer to the original target of issuing 1.4 percent of GDP in defence in 2020, while the planned modernisation of the Army of the Czech Republic could take place, which we are calling for and which we hope all of us want. After all, the last two parliamentary periods have also seen a significant shift in this House that the coalition here agrees with the opposition that we really need to modernize our army and launch acquisition processes urgently. It hasn't always been that way, and I'm glad for it. I am glad that I, too, can contribute to this as an opposition Member and that I am certainly not one of those who blame the Minister for wanting to invest funds in our defence and security. For example, funds for increasing the Ministry of Defence chapter can be found in unnecessarily high state subsidies, such as subsidies for supported energy sources, support for agrifood complex, and compensation for fares, which can cost up to CZK 6 billion for the next year. Which, for the record, is almost 10 percent of the Ministry of Defense's expenses. Once again, the dilemma of the weapon versus the butter. [[11.30 hours]] I therefore propose the withdrawal of the UNESCO contribution and the increase in defence expenditure B/45, House document 1821. The reasoning here is that, in my opinion, one of the other sources for strengthening the Ministry of Defence's budget should be an amount of 30,195 000 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget reserve. This is the amount corresponding to the annual contribution of the Czech Republic to the United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture, UNESCO. UNESCO has repeatedly become the subject of politicization in recent years, and its name and credit have been used to spread anti-Israeli propaganda. In its resolutions, the Executive Council of UNESCO repeatedly denied Jewish but also Christian ties to the sacred places of Jerusalem. A similar position was subsequently adopted by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, and it is therefore more than obvious that this organisation, through its bodies, goes beyond an impartial and peaceful supranational authority that should not interfere with political issues. The reduction in the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this amount is fully in line with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 23 May 2017 by which Members called on the Government to suspend the payment of the member contributions to this organisation due to its politicalisation and anti-Israeli rhetoric. Given that the government has not taken this step to date, which is incomprehensible to me, because the then Foreign Minister Zaorálek sat in the Chamber of Deputies when this item was discussed, so he knew very well what resolution the Chamber of Deputies adopted, and unfortunately, given the fact that the position of UNESCO in relation to the State of Israel cannot now and probably for the future be considered neutral, the Czech Republic should express by this gesture more than symbolic support for this country, with which it is associated with a historically strong alliance. The proposed increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Defence, together with other funds, would allow at least part of the approach to the original objective of issuing 1,4 percent of GDP in defence in 2020, while the planned modernisation of the Czech Army could take place, as I mentioned in the first amendment. The next amendment is B/44, the number of the House press 1739 and it is the withdrawal of funds from the Czech Freedom Warriors Union. [[document]] Many of you certainly did not escape the activities of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union represented by President Jaroslav Vodička. In recent years, he has significantly challenged the original mission, ideals and values of this association, and thus the reason for support from public budgets. I am not the only one who thinks that there are many other associations that deserve support from public budgets by their activities and who are engaged in similar issues and periods of our history as the Czech Freedom Warriors Union. It is mainly the Czechoslovak Legionary Community, the Association of Former Political Inmates of the Czech Republic, the Association for the Conservation of the Links of the Czech Resistance, the Šoa Prague Memorial, the Platform of European Memory and Conscience. These subjects should be paid and the amount initially proposed to the Czech Freedom Warriors Union should be distributed. My last amendment, respectively. our last amendment concerns the overall reconstruction of Sokolovna in the Royal Vinohrady under number B/77, the number of the House document is 1721. The building of gym unity Sokol Praha Králové Vinohrady is located at the address Polská 2400/1a Praha 2 and is an important functionalist monument. Although the city part of Prague 2, whose proud mayor I have tried several times to help the falcon, we are unable to obtain the means for a complete reconstruction, and the Prague City Council has also been not helpful in the past years. That is why my colleague Mr Dolínek and I have decided to propose this amendment, we will choose this form of finding the means for the overall reconstruction of the building that already deserves this reconstruction. The whole area consists of incredible 46,000 m3 of hall space and 22,000 m3 of other spaces and thus represents the largest sports facilities of this kind in the world. The area also includes a swimming pool. On the adjacent grounds there is a summer training ground and two universal playgrounds. This one of the most important sports monuments in the Czech Republic has long been in poor construction engineering condition. The operation of the building is energy-intensive and financially demanding and the state of the internal and external premises of the complex is completely inadequate. In view of the difficult financial situation of body-building unity - and we have also talked about this several times - and the high financial intensity of the investment action, which does not allow effective support from municipal and regional authorities, it is appropriate to make an investment in this significant sporting monument through the proposed change. And I would like to thank this colleague Dolínek, who came up with this idea. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support my amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u73	Thank you, ma'am. I will read an apology before I give the floor in the proper debate of Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Mr Milan chovanec apologizes for the Chamber of Deputies meeting today within 13 hours due to a doctor's visit. Madame, please, you have the floor. Mrs Richterová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u74	Mr President, Madam Government, honourable House, I can follow up on my previous speaker, Mrs Černochová. Well, you know, I don't know if it's between butter and guns. But if I'm gonna decide between bread and guns, I'm definitely gonna vote for bread. And I'll get to that. I will, of course, support the budget as a whole. But I would also see some other priorities in it. Luboš Zaorálek has already explained that economic growth, long-term, can only be ensured in the balance of investment, but also internal consumption, i.e. in the balance between investment and the promotion of internal consumption, i.e. the purchasing power of citizens. These are both salaries and pensions, including social transfers, if you like, social benefits and social support. [[11.40 hours]] For us, Social Democrats, investment in people is the most important and efficient and accessible public services, such as education, health, public transport, but also those security forces, such as firefighters, police, not only guaranteeing the quality of society's life, but also the freedom and quality of every single citizen. Therefore, I would imagine more money for the salaries of employees in education, in social services, parental contribution increased already now and not with the delay, more massive support for children, especially from incomplete families, raising pensions especially where seniors, seniors stay alone and are actually getting into very trivial financial situations. Much more money would be needed in the area managed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And I admit I don't like it either, and I wouldn't take it from the field of environmental protection. That is what Mrs Balcarová was talking about. However, it seems completely inadequate to me that the Ministry of Education has reduced the contribution to those working with children and young people, i.e. skats, to tommies, pioneers and other organizations gathered under the Czech Council of Children and Youth. I just don't understand this procedure. In order to keep these organisations on their own, so to speak, so as not to reduce the funds they have at the moment and to which they have set up their activities, they need to add 20 miles. Ladies and gentlemen, 20 miles. As well as only 10 miles. At the moment, a non-profit organisation needs school lunches - and I stress - as an address project. And I don't accept the argument that he's not up to it. Mrs Černochová spoke here about the need to add to the defense. I don't think so if our defense budget is growing by 8 billion. and there are also proposals for this budget to be increased. Ladies and gentlemen, do we have what it takes? We don't have tens of millions for kids, and we have billions for defense? Yes, it may be seen as a demagogy, but it's about priorities, it's about what's more important to us. And I say again, to me, the most important are the children. And if you will, the bread for every single person in this land. I heard and predicted the argument from the right that we have international commitments to fulfil. I'm not questioning them. Our anchoring in NATO and the European Union is one of the most important things for the future and our children to defend. But she's 2 percent of the military doesn't even make a much richer country than we are. And absurd, in my opinion, is 1 185 miles. to increase the development of combat forces. Our history of the Czech Republic by Jiří z Poděbrady as well as the position of the Czech Republic in the international community would be much more appropriate for peaceful initiatives or the fulfilment of our commitments to the international community, to NATO as well as the involvement of our specialists as was the case in the recent past, chemists, doctors, engineers. And by the way, when we talk about international commitments, our international commitment is also to put 3% of GDP in science and research. The figures have already been mentioned here, how we are fulfilling this international commitment. But I would have been a very long time ago. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the resolution that is proposed as an accompanying resolution on the financing of education. Furthermore, to support amendments to school lunches and to support children's and youth organisations associated with the Czech Council of Children and Youth. Furthermore, to support the increase in funding for social services. I believe that the budget that we will adopt today or in the next few days will indeed be a balanced budget that will ensure the most important needs for the people of this country. And we, as Social Democrats, will certainly try to make it really clear in the course of the year and in the next year's budget what is a priority for the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u75	Thank you, ma'am. With a factual remark, Mrs Jana Černochová is registered here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. You really can't not respond to that. Because I feel that your colleague Gajdůšková has landed in this hall from a completely different universe. You were part of a government coalition committed to 1.4 percent of GDP per year in 2020. Through Vice-President GajdůGajdůšková, how do you build this place? Bread or guns? You were not a member of the ČSSD during the last parliamentary term when Mr Sobotka was Prime Minister of this government, who signed this coalition agreement with other colleagues? It's really the top demagogy parade, what you've just shown here through the Vice-President. You're handing out billions on free fare, and you don't want to raise funds in defense at least the way you committed yourself to it five years ago? When you mention the situation in our education, indeed, I think that our directors will long remember the ministers of education from Mr Sobotka's government, who have party jurisdiction of the ČSSD! And recover from their actions for a long time! Because the real situation in education after Mr Chládek and Mrs Valachová's ministering, it has not yet been here. So sweep in your ČSSD in front of your own threshold and do not perform here the festival of demagogy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u77	Thank you for keeping time. This performance raised three factual points. The first is Mr Lubomír Zaorálek, Mr Ferjenčík and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u78	Thank you. I would, if possible, call for us not to escalate this debate. And I'll explain why. If we really went back to that budget. I was actually quite grateful when Mrs Černochová admitted in her speech that it was the ODS government, which, in the context of the austerity programme after the crisis, began to quite radically reduce defence spending. I appreciated the fact that the MP here said it, that she admitted it. I'm just reminding you that it was really quite crucial, because at the time, it seemed like we probably didn't even need defense anymore. And what I want to say here is that it was the government of Bohuslav Sobotka that started bringing this back. And we've started to strengthen our defenses again. And we've even accepted the commitment we've been talking about. [[11.50 hours]] I don't think there's any point in messing around. We've accepted the commitment, and it's even said there's a broad consensus, and I don't think it's worth hitting your head on these things today. It seems unproductive to me. The fact that someone puts some emphasis on one thing, the other one, that should not be the subject of some huge dramatic dispute right now. So, for the record, it's about four or five years ago when we went back to putting money into defense. And I think it is a consensus that in the present world it is important today that the Czech Republic fulfil its obligations, and this is where we could end up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u79	Thank you for keeping the point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík, Mrs Valachová, Mrs Černochová and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, will prepare all factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u80	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to say, in response to the debate on the amount of arms spending, that there are Members, for example, I, who are bothered by the fact that the expenditure on arms is growing too quickly, and we have serious concerns about whether the military contracts will be able to be done transparently and efficiently, so that the money will not be lost there, that the increase in the budget is so great that the army may not be able to cope with it properly enough. So we, on the contrary, as pirát, would support a slower increase in arms spending, because we fear that it may not be well spent money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u81	Thank you. Another with a factual remark by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Mrs Černochová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u82	Seriously. In 2015, we did not have strong school budgets, no professional support for teachers, and neither did we have fair funding for schools. Honestly, I think we all know that there was a political rampage here by 2015, but it really wasn't the social democracy that caused the underfinancing of Czech education. I have no doubt made a mistake through the President and Jana Černochová is an inspiration to me as a woman, a Member, I should have spoken much louder about this, in the state in which I found Czech education in 2015. I didn't do it, I didn't politicize, and that's not forgiven.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u83	Thank you. Mrs Jana Černochová, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Maybe we can relive our memory. After all, Mrs Valachová took turns with Minister Chládek, who, for God's sake, was also a Social Democrat. So I guess we all understood what was going on here a little while ago. To Mr Zaorálek, a fellow Member, through the Vice-President. Do you know what, colleague, is the most absurd? That our government in times of crisis, in addition to not being participated by the government for the sixth year, gave more per cent to GDP defense than your government at the time of the boom. It was above 1% of GDP. Unfortunately, your government, the Sobotkův, was below 1% in GDP in the previous years. Yes, I approach this fairly, and I say that even at the time of our government, we had to cut back in this department because the dilemma of the weapon versus butter was social benefits, health care, education versus weapons, and of course we needed not only social reconciliation, but we needed to draw up the budget so that it could be voted on here. But even though this crisis, which you yourself mentioned, was more than you, at the time of the biggest fall, the biggest crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u85	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. I'd like to ask my colleagues on my left hand if they could lower their speech a little bit. Madame, you have the floor, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u86	Thank you. Just really fast. I was spared the words of a fellow pirát. That's what it's all about. First of all. Two. If we're really going to decide whether to make bread, whether to support public services or, on the contrary, weapons where the ministry can't actually spend the money, I'm actually saying as a social democrat that public services and public services support, that is, the bread, not the guns. And by the way, it's the Rus who have the saying "when there's too many rifles somewhere, so sooner or later they start shooting themselves"? I don't want a shooting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u87	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Václav Klaus is another member of the Court of Justice. The President Petr Fiala will prepare himself with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u88	Hello. I'll comment on the funding of education and things like that in a proper debate where I signed up to see if it gets to me. But now I would like to say one thing, namely, to Mrs Valachová through you. I'd like to ask you not to constantly tease here in the context of gender neutrality by being a woman and saying it to the lady "as a woman" and so on. I think that we are all decent people, we appreciate both men and women, older Members, younger Members, when they say opinions like me, so I like it, but don't operate on these gender terms that you are a woman and therefore something else. Maybe it bothers me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u89	Thank you. Vice-President Petr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u90	Mr President, I will respond with a factual remark to Mr Ferjenčík's speech in part and in particular to Mrs Gajdůšková's speech. You may mean well and frankly, and I mean that without irony, but I consider the indications that we choose between bread or, as you, Madame President, put it, or butter and weapons, as a really dangerous, demagogical and incorrect argument. It's never like that. We're not taking the money we're investing in defense from anywhere else. Defence is one of the key priorities of each country. Finally, to have a socially well-functioning society here, a society that thrives, a society that can develop, the essential condition is that we live safe, and we must somehow achieve that security. And we are living in a time that is dangerous, where the international environment is changing, where, let's say, the objectives and conditions in defence and security policy are changing, when we are debating the direction in which the North Atlantic Alliance will develop, and how more Europe's Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance are supposed to participate in defence, when we are debating the need to raise funds that go into defence and resources in relation to GDP, and that is what the Czech Republic is supposed to do. And the debate is actually absurd in that all governments, as well as the government that you are part of, have committed themselves to increasing the means of defense, just not fulfilling the obligations. So, please, let's not put this in front of the public by either having bread or butter or having guns. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] This is an absurd, impossible, pointless debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u91	Thank you. We are going back to the debate. Mrs Richterová, Mr Zdeněk Podal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u92	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, after the defence debate, I now have a contribution that will try to divert our mutual attention somewhere else. It was kind of a right-wing confrontation. I would like to highlight three things that, I think, are purely about the functioning of the state, something that can be agreed on well enough. And some of this is basically a very cheap, effective measure, but I'll get to that. To begin with, after all the words that we have justifiably heard here about what doesn't work, I'd like to remind you of something that works. And I would just like to point out briefly a few reports from an organization that presents systemic incentives, increases people's sense of justice, trusting that, as a state, we are not completely vain, that we have a good prospect. I would like to talk about this state institution because we have in our amendments and those that want to take money from it. It would be a shame to me. [[12.00 hours]] What I'm talking about is the Ombudsman's office. And I just want to point out that, for example, in the last year, some 2,000 seniors have turned to this institution with incentives to investigate various issues, i.e. how to make visits, long-term visits, in-depth inquiries in elderly homes, in long-term hospitals, and for help, for example, when seniors are victims of fraud, various demonstrations, in a situation of incorruptible executions, in a situation of assistance with benefits and so on. This is one example of a large population group to which this institution provides support. Similarly, people with disabilities. There it is good to realize that in our country it may happen that the date of invalidity is wrongly determined, in such a way that... For example, a specific example: A man who was to be granted an invalidity pension seven years ago instead of CZK 3,500, which he was eventually granted, should have been at the height of CZK 12,000, precisely because of his stand-up and some sort of correction made thanks to the Ombudsman's Office, he was given what he was entitled to many and many years ago. Similarly, people turn to the Ombudsman and her office for a care allowance. These are dozens and dozens of incentives because of the disproportionate length of the care allowance procedure or the way in which the health assessment and the dependence on care takes place in different regions. We've been over this. The care allowance has been discussed recently. I'd just like to remind you that people are very aware of all this, that it is far from ideal in our state. And then it's important that there's an institution that can help them free of charge when other state institutions fail. Let me give you one last example, and then I'll move on to the next topic. The last example concerns family issues and the fact that we do not actually manage completely methodically to lead always our institutions of social-law protection of children. They're very sensitive things. And the concrete such good news from the last time was that, only on the basis of the Ombudsman's Office's investigation, the said OSPOD, the Child Social Protection Authority, at the last moment, on the last day of opportunity, succeeded in filing an appeal against the decision of the court that dismissed the motion to grant the child back into the care of the mother. We are in the area that I have been trying to devote myself to in the long term, namely that we take a really large number of children from our families, and then we often do not solve the possibility of returning or systemic support for the family. Here on this particular case, I want to point out that what's more important to have an institute like the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, so that even though the particular office, the particular OSPOD knew that the mother had fulfilled all the conditions for taking over the child, that she was able to take care of him, so the appeal to the court's decision was filed by this important body except for the appeal of the attorneys from the Ombudsman's office. The important thing is that he acknowledged that on the last possible day the appeal was filed and the child is now back in the family and everything works as it should. I want to stress that it's perfectly normal for the authorities to make mistakes. And that is why it is important to have an institution that draws attention to the errors, helps and can actually resolve things peacefully and peacefully. That is the first point of my speech to you, my fellow Members. It's an important organization. Let's not lower her budget. We can use it when we're older when we get sick, that we'll have a defense that won't cost thousands and thousands for lawyers. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Then I will allow you, colleagues, to present a second topic, a topic that can actually be very cheap and yet effective. I am dedicated to the way the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs deals with its budget, which is why I could see the hundreds of millions that this office charges for postage. Do you have any idea how much our state will pay per year for shipping?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Let the lady have the opportunity to make her arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u94	I'd like to draw your attention to that amount. It's almost CZK 2 billion a year. Postage - very often papers sent from one office to another. It's exactly the space for savings that will only lead to greater satisfaction for everyone. It will not somehow mean a burden if we succeed, and this is the proposal that pirát and I tabled as Amendment No. 1827, or in another numbering of B80, to support, to educate how data boxes work, to promote the use of data boxes both between officials within the authorities, so that citizens, people know that if a new interface is used, or a newer interface A citizen's portal, so it is user-friendly, quite welcoming, that there are still new, positive changes going on and that basically those situations where people have a data box, and yet a registered letter comes to them, it is not okay to let them know that it is necessary to gradually learn that people have the data boxes. A few more numbers for you. Only 117,000 individuals today have a data box of about 10 million inhabitants. And from natural persons doing only 143,000 data boxes. Annually, the number of data boxes increases only around 20,000 between natural persons and natural persons doing business. At the same time, one data message will come out to approximately CZK 4.50 including a flat load, with more volume, the prices could drop to approximately CZK 2.50. So even ordinary letter and recommended letter will always be more expensive in order, it will always be tens of crowns. This really is a huge space for savings. We have 1.7 billion crowns that the state spends annually on postage. And by voluntary support for the use of data boxes, we could significantly reduce this amount. Of course, people must have the right to use the communication channel they want with the office. It's not supposed to be mandatory at all. But even because there are really relatively few data boxes created today, even officials often do not realize that they should check, virtually. that their well-functioning file service should check whether to send the appropriate communication to a person simply electronically and not in paper. So this is an amendment to CZK 3 million to enlighten, to promote the use of data boxes and to support the Portal of Citizens. And from this really small thing, which could lead to the savings of billions, I'm moving on to the third topic. Ladies and gentlemen, I have such déjà vu, we have already discussed this budget a year ago and there are a lot of things in which unfortunately we haven't really moved. [[12.10 hours]] There are some things I'm happy for. I am very glad that we have discussed and increased the care allowance. I am glad that we have discussed the insolvency law, but there is a big question about whether it will really help, whether there will be a real chance of a new start for more people, or whether practice will ultimately show that the changes are not sufficient. And I acknowledge that there is a real debate about raising so-called. unforgivable amounts. I would like to point out in this final contribution to the state budget that it is not just about where we put the money, what budget chapter, but that it is especially about how the programmes really work and how the promotion of the behaviour that is desirable works. We've heard the number of CZK 60 billion here to support housing retention over the last five years. That's a huge amount of money, except if we can systemically do something about this like a state, when there was actually a discussion about so-called. the social housing law. Similarly, billions invested in previous years could be talked about. active employment policies. And again, the question is, do these billions have a result? We're evaluating how people really went back to work, what they call. active employment policy has contributed, for example, to reducing the number of people who are long-term unemployed and the like? How do we evaluate how our social support system works for people who are in executions or who have very low wages? And that is something that you may have noticed recently, dear colleagues, that has been reported quite in detail in the media. I would simply point out, at the conclusion of this reminder of what is really important for the state budget, that until it is worth working with people who are in executions, and people who have low wages, we cannot be surprised at how black employment blooms and how our incentive and motivation system does not work. You may have read an analysis warning that at CZK 30,000 gross in the family, and if it is burdened with executional collisions, the family with two children, will remain around CZK 9,400. The paradox is that it's exactly the same amount as if the family weren't even trying to go to work. Similarly, if the total of gross wages is CZK 19,000 in the family and it increases either because of the remuneration or because of the increase in salary to CZK 20,000, then if there are two children in the family as well as the execution haircuts, the final income will fall by CZK 1,200 when the salary increases from CZK 19,000 to CZK 20,000. We can't just stand by and motivate people to try to work legally differently than at minimum wage! I would like to thank you here for, in particular, the organisation of the Centre for Social Affairs, called. SPOT, which showed in the graphic calculator that we have such a terrifyingly dysfunctional social support system and set-up of benefits, and I would like to draw attention to all of us that it is not possible for people in executions to reject pre-Christmas rewards because then the situation will deteriorate in the next quarter, in the next quarter, that it is not possible for the system to be set up in such a way that, with a really moderate reward, if the sum is exceeded, the family, those people will lose all the support they need to maintain housing. Summaryed and underlined, by how it is set, by how unforgivable amounts are set today, as the minimum of living is set today, so our state is punishing for activity. The clients of the Labor Office clearly see it this way. And we, in addition to voting important amendments to the budget as the House, will be voting the overall state budget, so we should also vote alongside partial improvements in the type of support for data boxes, in addition to allocating adequate money to social services, this is also the amendment that I propose for the pirát, there are other amendments to social services, which we also support, in addition to all this for the functioning of our society, for the sense of justice, it is absolutely necessary for us to say here next year that if a person is working, then he can afford to receive a pre-Christmas reward, which unfortunately today in the case of those 860 people who are in executions, it is not, mostly, and it is completely up to his head! [[1000]] Thank you for your attention, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u95	Thank you, Madame. Mr Podal will also be speaking in the general debate, Mr Výborný will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u96	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, Members, I would like to apply again, for several times now, to the crusty calamity, by amendment 1889. In advance, however, allow me to set the one inaccuracies straight, because I mistakenly referred to Mr Holomčík as a supporter through Mr Holomčík, for this I apologize, there has been a mistake on my part. And now I'd go on. You know, I wouldn't want the seventh-grade ladybugs to replace the bark. I saw it in South and North Moravia, where it already is. It's in hundreds of thousands there. Experts who support this proposal, whether it be Mr. Director Zerzáň, whether it be Mr. Ing. Fojt, Mendel University in Brno, they all say: it is now in Moravia with us, but expect it next year in the Czech regions. That's what I'm worried about, because I've seen the woods there, and I would hate for such a horror to happen to us. They justify it: As a result of drought, all the trees perish. Weakened crops are not able to naturally face insect pests and Czech forests are exposed to the greatest disaster in history. At present, it is attacked by a spruce-eating icon of up to 20 million cubic metres of standing spruce vegetation. The only effective and effective measure is the timely and rapid rendering of the infected trees. This amendment strengthens budget chapter 329. I'm not gonna read the whole thing, I've already read it once, I'm just appealing again that if not in the full amount, at least to help prevent this cruststorm from finding some money again - because I'm gonna say it this way, then even our soldiers wouldn't, if we gave them guns and paid them, have nowhere to hide! Then all they have left is the weed. So thank you all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u97	Thank you. Mr. Výborný will speak in the debate, Mr. Klaus will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u98	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, I am in a rather difficult situation to keep your attention before lunch. As an educator, a teacher, I know that those hours just before noon break have always been the least effective and most complex for teachers, but I'm still going to try to ask you for a moment of attention. First of all, I would like to draw attention, although this has already been said here, but we, as members of the KDU-ČSL Club, consider it crucial and important in discussing this state budget, and this is the danger of the collapse of social services in the Czech Republic next year. In the government submitted a draft state budget for social services in 2019, only CZK 15.52 billion is proposed. However, this amount of finance is insufficient because it does not take into account the failure of funding from European sources within the so-called "European resources'. individual projects. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs claimed this amount to cover the deficit, but it is not taken into account in the draft state budget. Against 2018 the amount of social services is increased by only CZK 630 million, which does not cover the seven percent increase in salaries from 1 January 2019. [[12.20 hours]] On 6 December 2018, the Council of the Czech Association for Social Affairs, which stated in its resolutions that the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2019 does not take into account social services expenditure, does not take into account the increase in pay rates for social services workers and social workers by 7 percent according to the current wording of the Government Regulation. Furthermore, it does not take into account the termination of the financing of certain social prevention services from European sources within the framework of the so-called individual projects. Again, I stress that this is the opinion of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. Look at which movement the chieftains belong to. Ladies and gentlemen, this really needs to be taken into account in today's vote on amendments. In addition to the above, the current draft state budget for social services does not take into account the demographic changes of society, especially the growing need for services for seniors, but also the much discussed necessary services for autistics. The increase in pensions will not change significantly in the proportion of funding provided by the services due to the increase in cost of food, energy, etc., as at present more than 50 percent of the elderly do not reach their income precisely to cover food and accommodation in residential services. Dear colleagues, I would therefore like to ask you to support one of the amendments tabled by KDU-ČSL Members, whether this is a Member of Pavla Golasowská or a Member of Vít Kaňkovský, which will increase the funds for social services by CZK 800 million. Unfortunately, I have to say that if the funds are not increased, there is a risk that social services will not only be instability in the regions financially but also, unfortunately, personnel. I see the support for this proposal as essential, as it will avoid possible critical situations that would arise in the absence of funding in social services in connection with the workers' departure into the sector of better evaluated work. I think it is so crucial that it deserves not only our attention but also our support across the political spectrum. And the second topic I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, is the promotion of education and education, so that it does not just remain on those pre-election billboards and within our programmes, and again, I actually have to say, across the political spectrum. But let's really take this thing seriously. The average of OECD countries is 5,2 percent of the budget within the gross domestic product they give and thus invest in their future, they put into education. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic has been moving in this area for a long time, the very turn of the OECD countries. And it is our responsibility that we can really transform what we have declared in our pre-election vows. Remelting into concrete steps, including in the context of funding, i.e. also within the state budget. I, of course, acknowledge that the government - although with a six-month delay, and it has already been said here, because the House's original resolution was calling for teachers' salaries to be increased from 1. 9. It's got logic. The state budget is standard for a year, schools operate within the school year from 1. 9. to 31. 8. We didn't take this into account. My point is that the government's budget is counting on an increase of 10 per cent to the tariffs, 5 per cent to the over-the-counter components. I believe that through the regions, these funds will reach the directors. I'm glad there's at least a 5% increase in over-the-counters, because they're the directors, they're the school managers who know best where the tow horses are in the schools, that is, those cantors who are very devoted to the pupils, to the school beyond their responsibilities, and who really deserve the reward. That's good. But it must also be remembered that education is not only about salaries but also about the amenities of those schools. That is why I am talking about the 5.2 percent average in OECD countries, behind which the Czech Republic is unfortunately very limping. What I want to remind you of. This is not just about financing regional education. We also have a segment of universities here. But we also have a segment of private and church schools. It belongs to the elites of Czech education. And unfortunately, we as the Czech Republic, the government, in turn we who vote on the state budget, treat them in a stepmotherly, stepmomish way, where teachers here for absolutely incomprehensible reasons at church and private schools are significantly less rated precisely because there is an annual delay. And even though we have repeatedly pointed that out, the government doesn't want to hear about it. I would very much like to ask for the support of the amendments that are here, whether this is a colleague of Jiří Mihola, or it is a proposal that we have tabled together across the parliamentary clubs and under it is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. These are things that are not really wasted, but they are funds that invest in quality. Quality of education and quality of education. It also applies to the amendment by Kateřina Valachová, which rightly aims at what I have been trying to point out here for six months, and for an incomprehensible reason for me, members of the ANO movement, and unfortunately, the ČSSD do not want to hear about it, and this is a significant underfinancing of teachers who perform the work of class teachers. It's really not a formality. Somebody go try it on. Go try to be responsible for the class team, where you have to communicate more and more with OSPOD today, where you have to communicate with your parents, where you have to communicate with other organizations across, and all beyond your duties. Unfortunately, that's not in any other profession, and maybe you can't realize that, you who weren't behind that department, who didn't have the responsibility of the class teacher. I had it, I know what I'm talking about. Please also consider this, whether it is in the context of an executive measure, as Kateřina Valachová says, or it will be in the context of finally discussing and approving the amendment to the Labour Code, but class teachers do deserve this support. What the government approved today is an increase in the lower limit from CZK 400 to CZK 500. Don't be mad at me, it's a really ridiculous thing. And I believe that the Minister of Education is aware of that, and the support that I, too, am expressing here, will only be welcomed. I believe that by supporting these amendments, we will be aware and not only of social services but also of education. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an investment in our future. Thank you for your support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u99	Thank you. Minister Maláčová will respond to a point of fact. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u100	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, honourable Members, I am surprised to hear that we are at risk of a collapse in the area of social services, because the proposal for next year's budget, which we are discussing today, proposes a historically highest sum for the area of social services. Well, that's one, first thing. The second thing, and I've already announced several times here, so six weeks ago we proposed relocations in the Employment Operational Programme for individual regional projects of 1.5 billion. Crowns. That's 1.5 billion. additional funds. This amendment has been sanctified by the Monitoring Committee and we are waiting for a positive opinion from the European Commission. So there will also be other funds. It's really historically record-breaking. And the third thing, we've already talked about it here. There is also an amendment of KSČM in favour of social services of 200 million. Crowns. I agreed with this amendment because it is the 2% difference in favour of social workers' salaries that we have managed to negotiate against the original assumption. This means that social workers instead of announced 5% will receive 7 % from January next year. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u101	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And a factual remark will be answered by Mr Kaňkovský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u102	Good afternoon, Mr President, fellow ministers, colleagues. I must respond to Minister Maláčová. We've already talked about this at second reading, and we still don't understand each other. We do not dispute that the draft state budget for 2019 brings a record amount to social services. 15.5 billion. The crowns have never been there before. But you also need to see the reasons why not 15,5 billion. The crown is not sufficient. [[12.30 hours]] Madam Secretary spoke of giving a favourable opinion on the 200-mile increase. koruna from KSČM workshop. That's okay, of course. That'll cover the 2% difference in the tariff increases. The Minister talks about financing individual projects from his budget or moving from the Employment Operational Programme, that is also okay. But there are still other problems that aren't funded. We have here a reform of psychiatric care that brings new forms of social services. It is a priority of the government and it is also a priority of course of the Ministry of Health, it doesn't have much else, because the pumping period is already in full swing, and there are new forms of social services that are not funded, they are not covered by the operation. I had a visit from two directors of major psychiatric hospitals this Monday. They don't know what it's going to be financed from, and yet they're being pushed into the reform. So that's what it takes for the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to clarify. And then it's the shifts from social services workers who, if they don't get the excess wage, will continue to leave. That, too, needs to be discussed. That is, if the Social Commission of the Regional Council sees a problem, it needs to be heard. Thank you. . [[Applause from the right side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-001-114.u103	Thank you. At the moment, in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I am interrupting the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget and we will proceed to the election points, as we have included them for 12.30 hours. Opening point one. It's...
