ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-011-035.u1	35. Government bill amending Act No. 61/1988 Coll., on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended /German Press 98/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 This first reading is designed in accordance with § 90 para. 2, which means that we should agree with this proposal at first reading. The Minister of Industry and Trade Tomáš Hüner will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-011-035.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, the amendment to the Act on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration is presented in order to ensure the commitment of the Czech Republic to the European Union. The Court of Justice of the European Union stated in its judgment of the end of 2016 that the provisions of the European Union were infringed by the Federal Republic of Germany. The reason for this was the fact that Germany, in its regulations, enforced a re-examination of the instructions for the use of pyrotechnic articles before they were placed on the German market, although these products were certified and bearing the CE marking. Law No 61/1988 Coll. lays down a similar obligation to review the instructions for use of explosives by the Czech notified body if the type of explosive has been certified by a foreign notified body. This obligation was laid down in the law on the grounds that certification abroad has often led to insufficient account being taken of the risks associated with the handling of explosives in the territory of the Czech Republic. An example may be the approval of a type of explosive used in an environment with a risk of explosion in the acquisition of coal deposits, although an appropriate assessment of mining safety during certification has not been carried out. Although the dispute before the Court of Justice of the European Union did not concern explosives or the Czech rule of law, the representative of the European Commission, Directorate-General for Internal Industry, Enterprise, SMEs, called for a Czech representative of the Czech Republic to act in Brussels on 12 September 2017 in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice. If the Czech Republic had not implemented that amendment, the risk of initiating infringement proceedings would be exposed to Directive 2014/28/EU. Therefore, a draft law has been prepared to delete the obligation to review on-the-spot the instructions for the use of certified types of explosives and to abolish the facts of the offences for breach of that obligation. It is a very brief amendment, which has only three amendment points, and no fundamental comment has been made on it. The draft law was approved by the Czech Government Resolution No 85 of 7 February 2018. In view of the nature and content of the amendment, the Government is proposing to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill be approved at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-011-035.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please let the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský. At the same time, I ask the Members of Parliament once again for peace, so that we can devote ourselves fully to discussing this proposal. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-011-035.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has already said, the proposed legislation aims to remove the administrative barriers preventing the free movement of explosives in the European Union. In the case of explosives for which a European examination or verification has been carried out, it will no longer be necessary to assess their instructions in accordance with the law of the Czech Republic. This will compare the situation with the overwhelming majority of other European Union countries. Part of the bill is a proposal for consent already in the first reading according to § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-011-035.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I note that Members Nacher and Luzar apologise from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting until 16.05. Initiating, opening a general debate. No one's logged in. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Is the Minister or the rapporteur interested in the final word? No. There was no objection to discussing this proposal in the first reading pursuant to § 90 para. In accordance with Article 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, Article 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure is hereby amended as follows: 5 we will decide on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I shall call the Members from the lobby and make a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 98 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' We will now vote on this resolution. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 127, 171 Members registered, for 119, against 17. The motion was accepted. We continue to discuss this pursuant to § 90 para. 2. In this context, I am now initiating a detailed debate. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? I do not see such a proposal, I am ending a detailed debate. Again, I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if they are interested in the final word. There's no interest in the final word. There was no proposal that we should vote on, so we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. [[15.10 hours]] I will once again introduce you to the motion for a resolution. It reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 61/1988 Coll., on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended, according to House Press 98." Before we begin the vote, there is a request for an unsubscribe. I'm going to unsubscribe you all, which I have now done. Please log in with your ID cards again. We will now vote on the resolution that I have introduced you to. Yes, it seems that all Members are enrolled, so I can begin the vote. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 128, 140 Members registered, for 137, against none. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. Opening point
