ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u1	3. Members Jana Pastuchová's proposal, Válková Válkova, Radka Maxová, Patrik Nacher, David Kasal, Karel Rais, Rostislav Vyzula, Martin Kolovratník and Jaroslav Bžoch on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 89/ - second reading I would like to poprosit Mrs Jana Pastuchová, who I am giving the floor to, as the appellant, to put forward the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am with this House press No. 89 the opening word for what is being discussed in this House of the Press was given in the first reading. In short, I would like to say that the aim of this amendment to the law on aid in material distress is to adjust the compulsory way of paying a living allowance by means of vouchers. This proposal was approved in the last parliamentary term, it entered into force on 1 December 2017 and it touched on some groups, which I now amend in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with my proposal for an amendment to this Act, and I ask for its support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u3	Thank you, Mrs. plaintiff. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 89/2. I would like the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, to take the floor, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to present to you the resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 12th meeting of 10 May 2018 on the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Material Need, House press 89: After a statement by Mrs Jana Pastuchová, a report by Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, and after a debate by the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, first of all, recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the proposal by Members of Jana Pastuchová, etc., the House Press 89, and secondly, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to familiarise herself with the opinion of the Committee with the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u5	Thank you. And I am opening a general debate in which Mr Roman Sklenák is the first to join. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that this press and the following - both of them governing the same issue - are not addressing the issue sufficiently. While it is a good thing that we are dealing with this because what the Chamber of Deputies did in the last parliamentary term was to set out blindly, however, if we approve the adjustment as proposed in this press or the following one, we will continue on the blind path, perhaps only at a slightly slower pace. And I suggest that we go back to the state that was in force in the middle of last year, because it was, in my opinion, perfectly satisfactory. At the time, the subsistence allowance was paid in cash, but if the employment office had a reason, part of it could be paid in the form of a voucher. So it was on the consideration of those workers who knew the recipient of benefits, and if they had the indication that it would be appropriate, they paid part of the contribution in cash. The last Parliament has accepted an obligation for those who have been beneficiaries of a subsistence allowance for more than half a year, that there must be between 35 and 65 per cent of the contribution in the form of vouchers. That is when Parliament divided the poor into short-term poor and long-term poor, with short-term poor being paid off in money and long-term poor in vouchers. So it was assumed that if the long-term poor were paid a contribution in vouchers, they would probably stop being poor or it would lead them to do something about themselves. At the time, the argument was basically the same as it is today, and therefore, the long-term poor are taking advantage of the living allowance. Perhaps it would be good if someone tried to define the concept of abuse of a living allowance, so what they're actually using is what they're doing. Let's think about the amounts that are involved here and who is entitled to the subsistence allowance. Basically, these are the poorest of us, these are people who are in material distress, who have no property, by the way, they cannot own any property - if they have property, so they are not entitled to this benefit. And they are essentially given an amount that is sufficient to satisfy basic personal needs, i.e. really the minimum of life to satisfy the basic needs of life. For individuals it is CZK 3 410 per month, e.g. 6 620 CZK per month for a mother with two children. And for that money, he has to feed himself and those two children completely, take care of them completely, satisfy all their basic personal needs. And we're talking about her using the money. I don't know if we'd all tried to manage this amount here, how we'd manage it. Maybe we'd be surprised how these people can get along with the little money. They know where to buy the cheapest, how to get things the cheapest. But just when we give them the vouchers, they can't buy the cheapest. This was also said here at first reading. Those publishers have a commission, somewhere between 8 and 12 percent, it's different, but it's clear that the traders who offer the cheapest goods don't accept the vouchers because they don't have the room to pay the commissions. So if we give these poor guys the vouchers, they have to go shopping where it's more expensive than where they might want to go. I admit that many of these people don't manage the money ideally, they don't spend ideally, they don't spend it on what they should, but how do we define it? I don't know if we can say that if a guy like that buys a ten-degree beer in action for CZK 8, it's alcohol, it's abuse. And if he buys, like, a bag of chips, many times more expensive, that's okay? That's not abuse? How do we define it? [[15.20 hours]] So I suggest we go back to the adjustment that was in the middle of last year. And when I sum up my arguments: One. People who receive a living allowance in vouchers are forced to purchase significantly more expensive purchases than they could if they had cash. Two. Food stamps cannot be covered by a number of goods and services precisely to satisfy basic personal needs. What about school cafeteria, kids' lunches? You can't pay for that with vouchers. Accommodation somewhere at boarding school, if it is, it can't be paid with vouchers. Travel expenses, transportation costs. Schools in nature, different circles - you can't pay for any of this with vouchers. The system is more demanding, more expensive, more complex for the labour authorities, because they too are worried about it. And finally, if I admit that these people are addicted to alcohol, drugs, they are gamblers who, when they get some cash, run to the pub, or to the vending machine, and get rid of all that money - if they have that kind of addiction and that kind of need, you don't solve it with vouchers, because it is generally known that there are dealers who are willing to buy food stamps from these people, of course, not for the whole nominal full value, but even such a black course is set, about 10:8, or at significantly lower than the nominal price, they buy it from such people. And basically, we haven't solved anything, except that those who publish food stamps and those who buy them black and white are profiting from this system. My friends, I think that if we want to tackle poverty in some way, we should deal with completely different laws here, we should deal with the law on social housing, we should help people with legal aid, solve their question in the area of execution, but we should deal with preventing some mommy from feeding her children, fly to buy a bottle of rum, that is certainly not the ideal way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u7	Thank you. Who's next to the general debate? The rapporteur, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to make a proposal as rapporteur, because at first reading we had a merged debate of both the press, which means both the House press 89 and the following press 99, if, even in this case, the House could vote in the second reading, so I am making a proposal for a merged debate. Although, of course, I see that individual amendments are presented to each press, this means that even for the petitioners of the amendments, they must, of course, determine for which House press they submit theirs, that is, it must really be marked correctly. That's my suggestion so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-004-003.u9	Thank you, Madame. Since this proposal has been made, I am ready to put it to a vote, although the situation is such that we have opened the general debate. [[The President is ringing to summon Members from the lobby.]] However, if there is no objection from a member or club, I will comply with the rapporteur's proposal and we will vote that the debate on the House of Press 89 and 99 would be merged. There's a request for a check-out that I've granted. Please log in with your voting cards again. [[Members and Members are coming to the hall.]] For Members of Parliament who, following my call for a vote, have come to the Chamber, I remind you that we will be voting on the proposal that the debate on Parliament's press 89 and 99 be merged. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 8. Registered 130 Members, for 129, against no one. The motion was accepted. The debate will therefore be merged. At this point, I am interrupting the discussion of the House's press 89. Initiating item discussion
