ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u1	The joint debate on points 22 and 23 / House prints 89 and 99/ In accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I am opening a merged general debate on paragraphs 22 and 23. Four Members and Members are enrolled in this debate at the moment. I am merely saying that I cannot give the floor to the Members who made their views known at the time when the general debate has not yet been opened, and I am asking them to rejoin the merged general debate. Mr Rakušan is next, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, members and members of the Government of the Czech Republic, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say now, without distinguishing the two proposals, that I generally welcome the fact that they are coming to think about this issue and practice as it currently works. As mayor of the city, I have actually encountered very moving cases of the people that the amendment has landed on at this time. I met a lady who has spent her entire life caring for her seriously ill husband, it is logistically difficult, she gave up her own career, and now this woman had to look for a very difficult trade with vouchers that accepted these vouchers, and it certainly made her life harder. And I must say that she really felt affected even in her dignity by falling into a category of people who may have somehow been presumed to abuse benefits. It wasn't the only case. And I think that both of these proposals deserve - and so is the opinion of the Mayors and the Independents - the progress to second reading and some broader debate on this subject. I just think that maybe we should focus the debate in one direction that has not yet been mentioned completely. We find ourselves in a time of smart technology, a variety of smart solutions that can simply replace various paper vouchers that someone is picking up somewhere. Let me give you an example from my own town. We have an app, respectively. a solution for students, a smart keychain with which they can operate everything in our city, and it works on the principle of a simple chip from an ATM card and, of course, it can be implemented into this chip very simply so that it cannot be used to purchase alcoholic or tobacco products. I believe that something like this would, of course, also be a solution for the allocation of material benefits, because ATM cards, that is something that is already accepted, I dare say, in 90 percent of all trades and it would be a simple solution, it would be a modern solution and it would be a solution that could simply be modified by labour authorities for specific cases of various types of benefits. So please make laws, virtually. These proposals were released for second reading. We will certainly support this with our votes, but then, please also consider some clever modern solution that will correspond to the 21st century and will no longer affect the rights and needs of those people whose life this amendment has significantly but significantly complicated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u3	Thank you. Now Members who have applied for factual remarks will be given the floor in the following order: Staněk, Kaňkovský, Bauer, Bláha. I ask Mr Staněk to make his point of order. Mr Staněk is not present, so it is Mr Kaňkovský's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u4	Good afternoon now. With respect to my dear colleague, through the President, I dare to correct my colleague Aulická. The position on House press 99 from the government was neutral. Indeed, the government describes some legislative technical problems there on several points, but as a whole the press did not oppose this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u5	Thank you. Mr Bauer and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u6	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be accused of taking advantage of factual remarks, I also wanted to correct the Government's position because it was not exactly stated, but since I already have the floor, let me just say our position briefly. I do not think that these two amendments are a strong political issue, but I still think it is a pity that the Minister is not present. I would like to say that we have always considered the payment of social benefits in the form of vouchers to be an imperfect tool, but it is still an instrument that allows the abuse of social benefits to be prevented and so-called trafficking in poverty. I would also like to say that we were among the first to point out that the current situation has a certain hole and that there is a social group, mainly handicapped or disabled or those who are hospitalized in social facilities or health care establishments for a long time, that they have a problem with this form of payment. I even intersected the secretary. For this reason, we welcome the fact that the first or the second amendment was created because it actually responds to the current problem, and we are ready to release both of these amendments into second reading. If I could say my personal opinion, I rather find the first amendment led by Mrs Pastuchová more appropriate, because there are, among other things, cases worthy of special consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u7	Thank you. Mr Bláha and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u8	Hello, colleagues. I'd just set the record straight on how it works. I'm so glad that point opened up, and I want to tell you how it works in practice. Those who want to take advantage of it will always use it, whether it's in the form of a voucher, whether it's in the form of a chip. The way it works today is that the voucher, if the person who wants to take advantage of her wants to take advantage of her, sells her. He usually sells it for 50 to 70 percent on the market and gets cash for it. If he doesn't do it, they'll do it the other way, which means they'll go to the store, they'll buy the raw materials, and they'll hand them over to the relevant traders who'll give them money for it. So those who really want to take advantage of it, they're taking advantage of it lively. It's working really well. Go to the shops at the time of payment of social benefits, see how full their baskets are, for example, after 30 kilos of flour, etc. etc. I just want to say, it brought more administration to our state, and only those who issue the vouchers are earning it, because it costs money on the way spending, that means printing it, and then, of course, the person taking the money back from it. It's about 10 percent of the price of the voucher. So just to make you realize that we're actually trying to make things right, but we're not gonna fix anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u9	Thank you. A real comment by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I originally wanted to apologize for the position, it's really neutral, I've already fixed it in the text. And I'm sorry that I said that, like, it's negative, but it's a neutral position on this House's 99 press. And I would just say, perhaps, for the next discussion, that the vouchers paid relate only to one of the benefits, namely the subsistence allowance. Please, we have a lot of other social benefits that are also abused, paid of course, and abused, too, but this discussion concerns only a living benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u11	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková is enrolled in the merged general debate, and Mr Sklenák will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, very briefly. I'll follow up on what Mr. Bláha said. We need to know that the benefits in material distress are basically just plus or minus about 2 percent of the entire social expenditure package. Mrs Aulická also pointed out that the vouchers concern only those benefits for a living, so that is a really low percentage. However, I understand and perceive the efforts of the system and our predecessors, and especially those structurally affected regions that have dealt with it, to find some way to prevent the abuse of these benefits, and that is why the proposal for payment of the vouchers was made. [[12.20 hours]] However, abuse should not only be dealt with here by this system of vouchers, and I will continue to say so, but above all by checks and penalties, if this abuse is proven. The system just has to know how to do it. When I go back to the vouchers, when they say A, they must also be able to say B. If I put something in place, then I have to create space to work with it to make it work. And here I remind you what has also been said here that there really isn't a network of stores, that some people can't get at all to use the vouchers, or have it remotely, so they have other costs to do with it. And we're not talking about the buy-in, which means that the few people still have the amount of money that we're actually cutting them off by giving them coupons, and they're selling it, because maybe they don't get into the appropriate store where they could apply the vouchers. I'll add one more aspect to that. I spoke to the asylum workers, and they asked me to accept this proposal here, so that we would actually approve it, because for women from the asylum houses who fall into the group where they are paid in vouchers, that means, for example, in such a small town, Kainův's sign. Really, believe it. Those women just have a problem with it. Not to mention the fact that the stores are a limited network. And that was certainly not the goal of even those who suggested it, and it was not the aim of implementing this system here. That's why our proposal for the 99 is a little wider. But I really welcome the proposal on the one hand for this merged debate, but also on the fact that we will discuss this together in committee, and I believe that we will work towards a good solution, a good approach that will not only prevent abuse, but also the individual approach will preserve the dignity of the people, but also the system that we set up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u13	Thank you. Mrs Maxová will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I'm really just in the short term. As I speak to the directors of the employment offices in the South Bohemia Region, they say, of course, that the situation is not comfortable for clients, but each employment office extends lists of shops and locations where they can apply their vouchers, of course. As far as asylum houses are concerned, I personally had a meeting with South Bohemian asylum houses, and not only for women, but also for men and, in that last case, for families, and there is a big problem in those vouchers because they can't actually pay for their stay. So maybe this will be the case of a special consideration that actually complicates life, even if those families who use the services of shelters want to pay. So here, I'd like to intercede for that, too, given the difficulty of practice. And I must say that I do not quite think that this amendment, which is, will prevent the abuse of benefits. But, of course, we will have to respond in some way to this from the point of view of the employment office, because the Czech man is resourceful. We already wanted to prevent the abuse of vouchers by this step in good faith, but unfortunately we failed, because people who receive vouchers just sell them sometimes because they want the alcohol and the cigarettes. But if they use them for services in, say, asylum homes, I think we should allow them to do so with this particular case. And for that, I intercede because even the people at the employment office say we're going to number 11 groups, and in a week, we're going to have a 12. So let us really be more careful in this discussion than we were in that amendment in the previous term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u15	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský will respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u16	I would like to thank my colleague Maxová, by your means, Mr President, just that I have brought in the other phenomenon that we are here, perhaps even in the absence of delay for a long time. In fact, vouchers justify the person in a difficult situation to buy a particular range of things. It's about food, drug goods, pharmaceutical goods, somebody else. But a number of people, in a difficult financial situation or in a difficult life situation, need priority to cover their housing needs. And if we take up to 65 percent of their quotes and put it in their vouchers, then we're actually closing them down to pay off their livelihoods, which means, in their case, mostly housing. Of course, they need something to live on and have the food and the other goods, but housing is also essential to them. This also needs to be said here, and thank you for bringing it here by my colleague Maxová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u17	Thank you. We will continue the debate. I am merely saying that from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting between 13.30 and 14.00, Mr Kubík apologizes for the negotiations, Mrs Matušovská apologises from 12 a.m. to the end of the day, Vice-President Tomio Okamura apologises for the reasons of work between 12 and 13 a.m. and Minister of Culture Ilja Šmíd apologizes until the end of the day. Mr Sklenák, who is enrolled in the debate, will be heard by Mrs Richterová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u18	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I also support the discussion of both the press and, in essence, can be agreed with almost everything that has been said here, from the first acting Mrs Pastuchová to the last colleague Kaňkovský. Perhaps I would not agree with just one claim, and that is what Mr Bauer said, that they were the first to draw attention to the shortcomings of the current regulation. The first ones to draw attention to this were the Social Democrats. Do you know when? When it was approved. I mean, it's like this here - the petitioner didn't exactly say the history of how this legislation was adopted. It was said that it was in the last term. So who doesn't know it, maybe he imagined it was the Sobotka, it was the Sobotkův government, and now we have to fix it, just like we have to fix everything after him, so we're gonna fix it. But it was different. Maybe some of the people you're sitting here remember. A government proposal for an amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need has been tabled to the Chamber of Deputies and an amendment has been tabled, which has been introduced here by this system of meal vouchers. You wouldn't guess who put him up to this amendment. Mrs. Pastuchová. So that's amazing! At that time, Mrs Pastuchová was collecting political points because she was fighting the abuse of social benefits, and Secretary Marksová was against it. And social democracy was against it. And she was arguing with what's ringing today. That's what we're pointing out. But we were the ones defending the inadaptable ones, and those who voted for it were the ones who fought against the abuse of social benefits. So the points have been collected, and now they're collecting for the second time because what the last House has done is being corrected. And the same person. That's really perfect marketing. I had the need to point this out because I think it's fair - each of us makes mistakes - when we make a point, we make a mistake, come up and say: it wasn't wise, we made a mistake here, we should fix it. But I'm also going to sign up for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u19	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, who is another member of this debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, has already heard most of it, but one thing has not yet been spoken properly, clearly, and that is to say, who is earning on food stamps. Who gets a profit when there's any vouchers? Just the ones who publish them. Those are the ones who make a profit out of it. In this situation, we have three suppliers of vouchers who are the only ones who have any profits on the system. And now we're debating how socially we feel about their profits, which they collect, justified and explained by the feeling that we are then fairer as a society, because it is simply harder to buy for CZK 2,200, which is the existential minimum, boxer or cigarette. I would really like to point out that this is again a discussion about the extent, how much we want to prevent, because there is really no way to prevent completely. That's been said many times around here. And as for the conditions under which they go with the vouchers, it is even so that you get 2,800 for vouchers worth CZK 4,000. But most of the time, really, the odds are 10: 8. We are talking about this reality, and we need to see if it is worth it to keep this system running in this form. If that's what the social consensus really is. What is extremely important is that the really huge problem with this whole system is the impossibility of individual assessment. In short, because of the base at the employment offices, because of how we have undervalued workers at the employment offices. So we in reality today what should be crucial, namely an individual assessment of the situation, an individual assessment of the proportion of the benefit to be paid in the vouchers, we can't do much. We have a 35 to 65 percent spread in vouchers, but there's no room for that individual assessment anywhere, and it's done by simply allowing the office to have a flat, you're just going to pay the one and the percentage to everyone. That's just as it shouldn't be. So I'm going to go back one more time to really visualize it. You have a dose of existential minimum of CZK 2,200 and you can only get CZK 770 in cash in cash, the rest in vouchers. Of course, the network of shops is limited. Once you're in a small village, nobody really has to take it. It's no exception at all that you just don't have a chance to buy with it. And if so, it's usually more expensive trades that make it possible. Maybe in Vietnamese curfews, they'll just tell you if you want to pay with those vouchers that they're gonna take something else away from it. Really, there's a lot of implementation problems. Now imagine one more thing. As part of our problems as a state we have with the administration of various things, it is also that there are different payouts for different benefits. But perhaps parents who also receive these benefits need to pay school lunches at the beginning of the month, and that is where these vouchers cannot be used. Or there are different terms for paying rents and stuff. Because payouts are currently and often delayed, or they simply walk in different periods of the month, this is another big problem. I want to point out in all this that I think that this is a very big question of the extent to which we think that the vouchers really contribute to less buying these boxes of wine, and to what extent we could leave it to the competences of social workers at the employment offices to consider, as they did in the past, where it is really necessary to limit cash payments and pay in vouchers. I would call most for us to think about the whole system of our labour offices, what competence we want to take away from them, or, on the contrary, strengthen them so that the individual assessment can go in the right direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u21	Thank you. There will now be the following procedure. Mr Nacher and Mrs Maxová are signed up with factual remarks. The rapporteur, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, is enrolled in the debate. Mr Nacher will speak with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I would finally see here as a new MP that we have two bills here. Apparently, two proposals for amendments, to be more precise. One suggests the members of the ANO movement, the other members of three or four clubs, now I do not know. Obviously, there's a consensus here to deal with it in some way. Suddenly, Mr Sklenák will speak through you, Mr Vice-President, and he will bring back some politics and marketing. I wasn't here as an MP. I wasn't here, but I feel the need to stand up for my colleague, because your description makes me feel like my colleague Pastuchová was suggesting something, and she knew in advance that it was a mistake so she could fix it someday. I imagine if she hadn't been signed under this proposal, it would have been blamed for suggesting something. Now, in practice, it turns out that some things don't work as planned or as planned and that they don't want to know about it anymore. I appreciate it, on the contrary. We're just talking about two poles here. About the abuse of social benefits and some kind of inaction at the moment when it was taken this wide. We have two suggestions here. I assume they'll proceed to second reading. There will be, I suppose, a compromise in committee. Let's move on. Let's talk about it and let's not go back to the past and blame ourselves for some marketing shortcuts or plans to get voters or something. I'm sorry about that. I had to respond even though I wasn't sitting here before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u23	Thank you. Mrs Maxová's point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Richterová in terms of, of course, the employment offices. The situation is different in Prague and others are, of course, on the periphery of our republic, so I wouldn't flatter it, because I'm in close contact with the head of the employment office in South Bohemia and there is probably not as big a problem as you do in Prague. And, of course, as far as salaries are concerned, this is not a subject, we have a consensus and we will deal with this on the committee on 26 April. However, on the other hand, I don't quite agree with the fact that... it sounded like it was some sort of lobbying of stravenk companies. I don't think so. The direction is correct. Tighten it up a little, and actually reduce it even a small percentage of social benefits abuse, but those welfare benefits deserve people who need it urgently. And unfortunately, these people are selling it at some percentage level, and I was talking about it in the previous thousands, that's their responsibility. And if they don't miss the money, then we can think about whether the direction of state social support and material emergency is really set for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u25	Thank you. The rapporteur will speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, I would have seen it that way. We will hold an exit meeting of the entire House to the Ústí Region. Best to the Most, to Ústí nad Labem, to Děčín and preferably around 9th and 10th in the month. I think that all 200 Members, as you sit here, would be afraid, frankly, to come only to the office of employment. And I'm not gonna say what the people sitting there are going through and what they have to listen to every day. I am responsible here for saying that if a thorough revision of the entire dosage system is not carried out so as to set clear parameters and rules, our social system will continue to rise costlessly. I can talk about the housing supplement and housing allowance where it is necessary to unite into one dose with clear limits. For example, setting a price map for rents according to cities and municipalities. And immediately stop the so-called. the business of poverty. [[12.40 hours]] However, I must remind you here that the solution to this area is not the law on social housing. If we talk across the political spectrum that the main focus is for seniors, singles, disabled people or starting families. We cannot talk about the end of trade in poverty because there is a completely different population. As a resident of the Ústí Region, I am increasingly sorry that my colleagues and colleagues from other regions, besides Moravian-Silesian and Karlovy Vary, do not have the same experience. Then they would certainly speak differently and may have been far more radical and, above all, faster in action. The enforcement in the Czech Republic itself cannot be said at all today. Now, let me give you an example of some of the benefits involved. Care allowance. Have you ever asked how many billions are constantly growing each year as part of the care allowance? When is he first abused? That the care allowance is abused primarily in children? That families don't use the care allowance where they should? Why don't we have, for example. as part of the domestic care allowance, is it an obligation for us to account for it? Nobody cares. In-law foster care. You know that our courts decide relative foster care, for example. That the family doesn't have enough money? That there's almost no investigation into family foster care? And maybe these families take up to 18 grand a month extra? Have you ever been to the Ústí Region? Therefore, I beg you to remember that if we don't start thinking about common sense and constantly address this situation through some kind of political inquiry, we will not be able to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u27	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Kaňkovský is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u28	I would like to respond briefly to the previous contribution, not to my colleague Aulická. I'd like to get back to the problem of the sale. I think it's necessary here too to divide people into those who sell coupons because they want to buy alcohol and cigarettes for them. I don't know yet what else, and those who sell coupons because they're not able to cover the needs they have, like paying rent, or because they don't have a shop there to buy the goods they need, and basically out of desperation they're going to sell it under the price to get at least some money. So we need to separate this. We both have problems there. Those heavy abusers who for him - and now I'm gonna say it here and before the microphones - will do anything to drink, and then those who are in a different situation, where precisely because of the unkindness of the system, they will sell the voucher and at least have something left. And that's what we need to fight against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-006-901.u29	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? In this merged debate on both points? He's not reporting. So I am ending the merged general debate. Opening re-interrupted point number
