ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-021-036.u1	36. Proposal by Members of Alena Gajdůšková, Ondřej Veselý, Petr Dolínek, Jiří Běhounek, Jan Chvojka, Kateřina Valachová, Jan Hamáček and Bohuslav Sobotka for the issue of the Act on Advanced Maintenance for an Unaided Child and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts (Law on Advanced Maintenance) /Departmental Printing 126/ - First Reading So here we have ended the debate and we will now move on to the final words. I ask the plaintiff's representative, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, for her final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-021-036.u2	Yes, I'll be brief. I am pleased that the rapporteur and Social Committee Chair have accepted my bet. Then we'll tell you what it was all about. I am actually convinced that at the moment when the debt to my own child or family is, and as it has also been said here, as is often seen and used as a discussion in families, I do not want to say the struggle between those former partners, that when it becomes a debt to the state, it will look different. It'll be the same as when you owe on social, health insurance and so on. And that's definitely where the enforcement is different and it's gonna be different. I'll just be really short. The proposal for backup maintenance is led by an effort to help children immediately, not to let them suffer, not to let them suffer. The parameters that were there, 2.7 times the life minimum and other things, are due to the fact that we tried to make the most of the passability and tied it to similar measures and similar parameters of the law on material distress. But like I said, we're ready to talk about it. I think that the committee will definitely have a debate that, as it turns out, is really very important and will be important. And I thank you very much for today's debate here, and I am looking forward - I hope that our proposal will also go through the committee meeting - I look forward to this committee meeting and I think that we can work through a really important thing that will help children in particular. I beg you to release this bill to the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-021-036.u3	Thank you, too. And now, please, the rapporteur, if she's interested in the final word? He's interested, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-021-036.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly. I have proposed here for this proposal to extend the time for committee meetings by 20 days, so that it is not forgotten. Second thing. I am not looking forward to this discussion in the Committee on Social Policy, because of course it will not be easy there. The parameters of both laws are different, differently set, different principles, different conditions. And even if the best, the best, the two laws just put it together, it doesn't solve the whole problem. But the discussion will also be needed here in the House and outside the House. I believe that even if these laws happen to pass until the third reading, there's a lot of good things to do before what we've been talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-021-036.u5	Thank you for the final report. I must say, however, that the extension here is not marked in the general debate. I don't know if it fell or if it was handed to me. So I'm sorry, but I can't let this vote unless someone opens the debate again. In that case, we will move on to the vote. A motion to dismiss has been filed. Then I'll call my colleagues to the ballroom. Unless there are any other reservations, I am opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of dismissing the motion. Who's against it? It's a 159 vote. 145 Members are registered, for they were 24, against 81. The motion was denied. I have here with Mr Dolejš's factual remark, but I assume that is a mistake. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. In that case, I shall initiate the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a 160 vote. 146 Members are registered, 142 for it, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee and we will move on. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I have noted this proposal to order the Constitutional Legal Committee. Are there any other suggestions for further committees on the commandment? It's not like that. In that case, I shall begin the vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Who's against it? It's a 161 vote. 146 Members registered, 100 against 4. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that we have further ordered this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee to be discussed. Therefore, since there were no proposals in the debate to shorten or extend deadlines, we have therefore dealt with this point. Thank you all. I thank the appellant and rapporteur and we will move forward in the remaining minutes. So back to the point that we've already discussed. It's a point.
