ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u1	109. Proposal for the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations from 2018 to 2020 with a view to 2021 / House print 150/ - first reading The material will be introduced gradually by Minister of Defence Karla Šlechtová and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Stropnický. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor. I present to you together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs for discussion and also for approval The proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations from 2018 to 2020 and we have also put a view of 2021 into this mandate. This material was approved by the Government on 11 April 2018 by Government Resolution No. 221. The government has done so, because, of course, by nature, it is our duty as a government, whether with confidence or without trust, to present a proposal to Parliament of the Czech Republic for approval on the operation of forces in foreign operations. This made it possible to ensure the consistency of such action with the Czech legal order, and thus to fulfil obligations towards international organisations or countries on a bilateral basis. In April, Mr Stoltenberg, the Secretary-General of NATO, also requested an increase in Afghanistan. The submitted material, which we are discussing here today, has been processed with a view to increasing our contributions in four foreign operations for the second half of 2018, but at the same time to the need to approve a new comprehensive mandate on abroad for 2019 and 2020, with a view to 2021. Here I would like to say that some foreign missions end in December 2018. Some foreign missions, which are already approved by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and we will certainly discuss this, end 31. 1. 2019. The material is based on the current foreign policy and security priorities of our country. It responds to the current security situation, including, of course, the fight against terrorism, including the need to reduce migration in the territory of the country where migration takes place worldwide, and reflects the Czech Republic's allied commitments to NATO, the European Union, but also the UN, of course. This mandate proposes extension of work in already approved and ongoing operations, in most cases at the same time the longer-term operations in which the Czech Republic participates. At this point, there is only one exception, and it is similar to what is called the so-called. air police of the Baltic countries planned for 2019. Thus, the main content of the material is information on operations in which we propose both a partial increase in the number of soldiers, starting in mid-2018 by 275 soldiers in Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali. So I point out that we are in Afghanistan under NATO, we are in Iraq on bilateral cooperation both with Iraq, but we are there under the leadership of the Alliance, which is led by the United Kingdom, and as far as Mali is concerned, it is divided into two parts - for one we are under the head of the UN and for the other we are under the head of the European Union. At the same time, this concerns the activities of the armed forces of the Czech Republic in the following two years, as I have already mentioned twice, with a view to 2021. The Ministry of Defence approached such a comprehensive mandate so that the Chamber of Deputies, but at the same time the Senate of the Czech Republic and constitutional officials knew some kind of prediction about planning foreign missions abroad for further years and the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, did not present any changes every six months or every two or three months to the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently to the Senate of Ad hoc Missions, where we will find that there is a need for change. So at this point in time, you have a comprehensive mandate for essentially two years, and, of course, it would be a great advantage for us if this mandate were approved this way. Each particular operation is evaluated from the perspective of the political-security situation in the state, in the country where our soldiers operate, the material is also supplemented by information about the current involvement of our armed forces in the country or operations. Of course, I am prepared to respond subsequently to any questions that may come from your side. Here I would like to mention our priorities, to which the material presented corresponds, and that is an increase in military presence, i.e. increasing the number of soldiers at the request of NATO leadership, at the request of our bilateral partners e.g. In Iraq, as well as within the United Nations and the European Union in Mali, and at the same time, of course, it is an action on the Eastern wing of the Alliance. The estimated amount of funding is calculated in this mandate, which we are discussing today. I will just briefly repeat that in 2018 it is approximately 2.11 billion. CZK 2.4 billion in 2019 CZK and in 2020 is estimated at 2.34 billion. Kč. As far as the legal aspect of the mandate is concerned, I can say here that all the foreign missions envisaged and proposed, operations comply with international law, with the law of the Czech Republic, of course, in the first place. The material is also entirely in line with the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations, especially: NATO, the European Union and the UN. And of course everything is in line with the security strategy of the Czech Republic, the defence strategy of the Czech Republic and our foreign policy security priorities. Finally, I would like to point out that, in addition to strengthening the security of our country, the proposed scope of action in foreign operations is also an expression of the willingness and readiness of the Czech Republic to continue to be actively involved in international security. As a member of NATO, of course, we also have to follow the principles of the creation or the involvement of the Czech Republic in NATO. Of course, this makes the Czech Republic a very trustworthy partner for other countries, under which our soldiers also serve, of course. What you have before you is a completely balanced mandate on our part, under the heading of NATO, the UN and the European Union. [[10.00 hours]] Here I would like to conclude by mentioning that this material has been passed by the government, it has also been passed by the Committee on Foreign and Security Affairs of the Senate of the Czech Republic, then it has passed through the Senate plenary, or this Chamber of Deputies, the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies is the last place where this mandate should be and is discussed. The Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies has not delivered an opinion on it. Thank you for the opening speech, I'm ready for any questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u3	I thank you and ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'll follow up on the words that just came out of the Secretary of Defense's mouth. We may overlap a little bit, but in some cases it doesn't hurt to repeat. I firmly believe that the Czech Republic must demonstrate that it is a credible, predictable and active ally in NATO and a partner and actor of the international community, who is ready to participate actively in the common defence and international security and stability. One of the expressions of this effort is the proposal for sending forces and funds to the Army of the Czech Republic. The proposed purposes, the location of the operation and the number of our forces proposed for deployment for the years 1918 to 1920 are realistic and follow up on our existing engagements. They reflect our options, commitments, foreign policy and security interests and needs based on an overall international security situation. In the framework of the proposed mandate, we want to participate in strengthening the Alliance's collective defence, by participating in NATO Response Force's emergency forces, in enhanced forward presence, eFP, and in helping to protect airspace in Baltic and NATO's command structure. We will also support the alliance's fight against terrorism and the projection of stability in the case of Afghanistan, Iraq, Kosovo in particular. We are counting on continuing participation in operations in the Middle East region and outside the coalition or alliance framework in UNDOF in Golany and MFO in Sinai. That's the observation mission. We will also strengthen our involvement in Africa, and in EU missions, this is the training EUTM that the Minister and the UN in Mali spoke of, this is the MINUSMA mission, respectively. in the Sahel region, which is very sensitive, our support is important both in the fight against terrorism and in security stabilisation, which has a direct impact on reducing the potential of illegal migration. I stress that all operations in which we are or will be involved have a clear legal basis, either the mandate of the UN Security Council or the consent of the host country, whether under collective alliance defence, which is Baltic or on a bilateral basis, which is the case with Iraq. I believe that the House will approve the mandate so that in a delegation led by President Zeman at the NATO summit in Brussels in July, we can confirm to our allies both our share of the common defence and our contributions in the fight against terrorism, respectively. in the stability projection. For this year, the current reinforcement is particularly in the Alliance Mission Resolute support in Afghanistan, where all participants strengthen the operation so that the Taliban can understand that it will not win militarily and participate in national reconciliation. We also need to strengthen in Iraq, where we are still contributing to the coalition operations of the Inherent resolve and where the Alliance is preparing a new non-combat training mission. We also ask the House's consent for reinforcement in Africa, where our participation in the EU's Mali training mission is part of the EU's wider efforts to help and stabilise the Sahel, where Islamic terrorism is dangerously growing, which, along with tribal violence, generates the already mentioned illegal migration. The Government is presenting a comprehensive mandate which gives Parliament an overall and detailed picture of our plans belonging to it. We did not want to wait or make proposals in parts or perhaps in a hurry sometime in autumn. We also need to prepare soldiers in time for missions to carry out their tasks. For all this, we have put forward a government proposal as soon as possible and in all transparency and we expect its serious and fair assessment, which will take into account our commitments, the credibility of the country and the international situation. I would like to conclude by pointing out that, in the case of virtually all these missions, there is a direct and concrete link to the efforts to stabilise the very areas from which migration potential comes. Furthermore, to the very end, I would like to ask you to agree with this material, although it is a government that does not have the confidence of this Chamber of Deputies, because I firmly believe that the commitments that are formulated here need to be fulfilled precisely because we are going through some kind of internal political turbulence, and that is to say with a clear word and a clear diction towards our partners that we are still able to meet these timeless commitments with the honour that this message is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u5	Hello. The Defence Committee discussed this press and submitted a record, which was delivered as press 150/1. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee of Mr Ratiborsky to inform us about the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to the discussion of the House Press No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the Programme. The following record was made of the Committee's deliberations, which is stored in the system under number 150/1. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence . Karla Šlechtová, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Lieutenant General Ing. Aleš Opata, Mr Michal Ratiborský intelligence report and after the debate I. discussed the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations from 2018 to 2020 with a view to 2021, House Press No. 150, and the motion for a resolution was not adopted in the final vote; II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to submit a resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Mr President, I would like to then come forward to conclude the detailed debate and read the motion for a resolution that we should vote on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u7	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. First of all, with priority rights, Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to explain the position of the Civil Democratic Party on this subject, to say the steps taken by the ODS on this matter and the procedure we will follow. A more detailed explanation of our position with some professional aspects will then be presented in her speech by Mrs Černochová. I will limit myself to the political context, the political context and the political impact of our decision-making. I'll sum up my performance in five. Firstly, I want to say that we are not in a normal situation, but we are in the longest political crisis after November 1989, and the formal sign of this crisis is that we have a government in demise, a government with no confidence, for a record long time. And those numbers aren't even as important as why this government has been in office for so long without trust. It is not because there are objective circumstances, but it is simply because the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister chosen by him have... or consider anything more important than seeking a government with confidence. And, of course, there is also an essential factor in making decisions on this matter, as the Communists, on which this game is largely based, play a crucial role in this crisis. [[10.10 hours]] Secondly, I want to say that the fundamental position of the ODS is that a government without trust is to do only what I called shining and drowning and nothing else because it has no constitutional mandate for anything else. Talking about how the Constitution doesn't distinguish government with confidence and government without trust is, forgive me, childish and purposeful. The difference between a government without trust and a government with confidence is not written in the Constitution, among other things, because it would be a shame to write such a matter of course in the Constitution, which every starting politician and, in fact, every reasonable person must understand. So the proposal to send us on missions is submitted by a government that, in our opinion, should not do such a thing. Thirdly, we have a situation that has never been here in the past, and that is an opinion, virtually. the absence of a recommendation opinion from the Committee. Fourthly, the basic position of the ODS is that we support all the missions that are in line with our foreign policy. We support all missions regardless of their position in the coalition or opposition. We're not making it political. We are not blackmailing properly established governments. We're not laying down terms. We're not doing any pressure in a situation where, let's say, it's possible. The foreign policy interest of the state is worth more than anything to us, and that is how we proceed. Finally, fifthly, we are deeply concerned about how far the YES movement has allowed the state of political matters in the Czech Republic to reach. I mean, the Communist Party has started talking to the state's foreign policy and is doing it more and more. And the reactions of the YES movement are just lukewarm or retreating. We have all seen this in recent days in Communist efforts - a successful communist effort - to prevent a novice from discussing the case. And at this point, we can only estimate how far the YES movement is willing to retreat in the interest of the state to preserve its functioning coalition in the Chamber of Deputies, part of which is the KSČM, in order to secure the support of the future government from the KSČM. For all these reasons, yesterday we called for negotiations with the YES movement, we tried to explain, or we explained the position of the Civil Democratic Party, and we proposed to the ANO representatives to divide the missions proposed by our allies, possibly the missions carried out in NATO countries and the others. It was the goal that we promised the first missions, the missions in the Baltics, and the mission in Afghanistan, that we would support these missions. We will support them now because they are in a hurry because this is an important part of our foreign policy. And let the approval of the others be postponed until we have confidence in the government, and then, of course, we'll support them, too. We all hear that the government will be here with confidence in mid-July. 6. 6. Prime Minister Babiš will be appointed as Prime Minister for the second time. There's no reason we shouldn't wait until we have a government here with confidence, and we don't approve the remaining missions. We have promised clearly that in such a situation we will support all the missions as they will be presented to the Chamber of Deputies, but that we believe that the government should do so with confidence. I regret to say that if my information is correct, but the right thing is that the YES movement did not accept it and that it said that it does not have to look for this agreement on missions, that it will rely on its liquid majority with extremes from both sides and that it will behave irresponsiblely on this matter. It's okay. It is the decision of the YES movement, and we acknowledge that. What will the Civil Democratic Party do in this situation? If the Chamber of Deputies approves a split vote, a separate vote on individual missions, we will support the mission in the Baltic and Afghanistan, in line with our position and what I have described and explained here. In the case of other missions, we shall not take part in the vote. If the Chamber of Deputies decides that we will approve all missions in one package, i.e. in one vote at a time, then the Civil Democratic Party will support the sending of our troops into foreign missions, although the ODS rejects the methods imposed by the government in demise, the government of the ANO movement. But we respect the interests of the Czech Republic and citizens of the Czech Republic. We honor the allied commitments of the Czech Republic and will not allow them to be threatened by this - I believe, a temporary - state of political affairs. This, ladies and gentlemen, is how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u9	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u10	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, first of all allow me to wish all children on this day for their holiday, the International Children's Day. And then allow me to make a very brief speech to the foreman. I always thought, and not only myself, but at least that was the urban orbs, or the city and the world pretended that the Civil Democratic Party honored all the commitments made to our allies. We have a slightly different opinion right now. We believe that the commitments made in accordance with the UN Security Council decision must be honoured. That's our priority. The rest is a problem with us. But the attitude of the citizens' democrats, which is right here in connection with these votes, seems to me rather purposeful. It is not important whether the government is in remission or any, for fulfilling the obligations. It is important to fulfil the obligations. After all, I have also heard in the speeches of some previous speakers that this is a priority, so I am surprised that some commitments the Civil Democratic Party wants to vote now and some other time. In my opinion, and I don't care if we en bloc or separately, we communists will vote in accordance with our program and we won't let our voters down by acting purposefully. But we will also vote so that it is clear and clear that we are not blackmailing or being blackmailed. What's happening right now isn't about anyone making concessions. Our attitudes have been known for a long time since they've always been immutable. And if anyone respects them or does not respect them from colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies, it is up to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u11	Mr Schwarzenberg and then President Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, this is about sending our missions, but also about the readiness of our soldiers. Every military action will be done according to how it was prepared. And our soldiers can only prepare an action that is approved by this House. Therefore, I would ask all colleagues to vote in favour of the proposal. Not that today's government doesn't get on my nerves either. He's getting on my nerves! I get the impression that every day there's a little bit of legitimacy left. That's one thing. But another question is that it is the safety of our soldiers and the timely readiness of our actions. All the military actions of the Czech army until now, thank God, have negotiated for us the glory of the world, because they were well prepared, our soldiers have done a great job. I don't want to let that reputation go wrong. Therefore, please also those who agree with me that this government should disappear as soon as possible so that they now vote in favour of this proposal so that our soldiers can prepare their actions in time for everyone - I say - for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u13	One more factual point from Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u14	Mr President, colleagues, I am sad about the ODS' approach to this issue. Because the ODS is using our soldiers as hostages. As hostages! I've been a paramedic for years. That is, are you telling me that if our House votes on whether the Czech Republic can send its rescue workers to Poland, that we cannot send them if the government is in remission, that it cannot send our firefighters to help, for example, in Germany in the event of a fire, just because the government is in remission? Please think about it! That's terrible! That's awful, I'm ashamed of you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u15	President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow us just a brief position. We have a full understanding of the position of the Civil Democratic Party, and we have held it for quite a long time. It is not natural that a government in demise, a government without confidence, is making an absolutely crucial long-term decision, and it is not our fault that we do not yet have a government with confidence six months after the election. This is due to the total irresponsibleness of the President of the Republic and the total political inability of the Prime Minister. If it weren't for these two phenomena, there was a long time ago a government with confidence and we would all support foreign missions without any difficulty as they are presented because they are in line with the long-term foreign policy of the Czech Republic. That is, we have also said for a long time that we will be happy to support these actions, but with confidence in the government. However, our position has changed in the last few days, the last two weeks due to several events. On the one hand, statements by the President of the Republic and, on the other hand, the increasingly effective involvement of the Communist Party in the foreign policy of the government may raise doubts among the Czech public about whether or not foreign policy orientation is changing. And this doubt can be raised not only by the Czech public, but by our allies. In order not to risk something like this, we have re-evaluated our position. And while this is being put forward by the government without confidence, the government in demise, we are ready to vote in favour of the material presented and to support it. However, I stress once again that I have full sympathy for the position of the Civil Democratic Party, because it is based on political logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u17	Now I have two factual points. Vice-President Fiala and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u18	Mr President, I have, of course, noticed that Mr Hájek is either not listening or having difficulty understanding what is being said. But I wouldn't even respond if he wasn't yelling at us and saying it was a shame, and he wasn't accusing us of anything. I think that for everyone else I have explained clearly our state-building serious position. That I was also talking about initiating negotiations with the YES movement. I'm glad the meeting took place. We have clearly explained our positions. We regret, of course, that the YES movement has made a different decision, but I, unlike my colleague, Hájek commented on it in substance, intelligible, clearly and without emotion. So please don't resort to insults and accusations of anything else in this debate. We, of course, those missions that are in a hurry, where it is necessary to decide where allied commitments need to be made clear and where there is time to prepare, we will support those missions without a problem now. For those other missions where the decision is not in such a hurry, we do not consider it a problem when the decision by the Chamber of Deputies does so six weeks later, it will do so when we have a government that will have confidence, and therefore it will be a decision to send our troops, which the government is proposing to us, completely legitimate, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with all the rules of parliamentary democracy. Seems logical, right, and responsible to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u19	Now, Prime Minister, a point of fact. And after that, the chairman of the club KSČM.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, well, about the government debate in demise, nedemis, so I can confirm that we've been talking to the barkworm and confirmed that if we trust him, he'll stop eating our woods. [[Resurrection and applause from the benches on the left.]] And we also called upstairs, and we were told upstairs that if we had confidence, it would rain, and we wouldn't be threatened by water. So we're looking forward to getting that trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u21	Mr Kováčik, then Mr Výborný, then President Kalousek, President Bartošek, factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to the Prime Minister of demise, he's wrong this time. 'Cause for the fact that there's a crust in here and the rain isn't much, and where it rains, it rains too much, Putin can. [[Laughs of Members of the KSČM.]] But I'd like to stand up for my colleague Hájek, who was kind of attacked here by the chairman of the ODS Fiala. What I'm watching, my colleague Hájek understands well what we're talking about. And maybe, unlike anyone else, he can also make it clear what he thinks. And he did it now, too. Please, don't judge each other with the kind of respect that's been done now. And another last impression. You know, it's supposed to be the same House and Senate resolution to make it work. And so I feel if the Civil Democratic Party, by its efforts to divide some missions, actually wants to approve the missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u23	Mr Výborný with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've only been very brief. Prime Minister, you can't be serious about what you're saying here. You are linking a fundamental cause, our allied commitments to the North Atlantic Alliance, to our allies, to some crust in the woods. It really, really seems to me from the mouth of the Prime Minister of this republic, the Prime Minister of demise, something that doesn't belong here. If you think that this way we will raise political culture here in the House, we are unfortunately falling lower and lower.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u25	President Kalousek, indeed, then President Bartošek, then Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u26	Prime Minister, despite all the experience we have with you, you can still surprise today. I really don't understand where you get the audacity and impertinence to downplay and make fun of the current situation. Because it's your person, your prosecution, who's the reason we don't have the government here with confidence and we're having this discussion. You've been holding the country hostage for six months, and if we change our position out of responsibility for our foreign policy commitments, you're still making fun of it? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u27	President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u28	Prime Minister, I don't think you've noticed, but we're dealing with a matter of missions and sending our troops abroad. Our soldiers who will put their lives on the line for our safety. And if you no longer have respect for the Constitution, at least keep it in front of those soldiers who will go out and fight for us. It is not worthy of this Chamber of Deputies, but above all, it is not worthy of soldiers who will go to our country abroad. I'm ashamed of you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u29	Now, Madam Secretary, then Vice-President Fiala and then Prime Minister. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention two issues in this debate, namely the preparation of a military mission. In fact, for several months, soldiers have been preparing for missions to take place or to take action in six months. At the meeting of the Defence Committee, General Opata also made it clear how long it takes to prepare a military mission, how long it takes to basically withdraw a military mission. It's not a one-month question. So that's why we've decided to give you the comprehensive mandate. And if you don't mind, I'd like to follow up on President Kalousek's words here about the impact, and all this debate, abroad. The Prime Minister also said very well that yesterday we were dealing with the ODS, that 11. 12. the summit of the presidents of the Republic of NATO members will take place. 7-8 next week. a summit is being held at the level of the Defence Ministers, where the foreign missions will be the subject of this meeting of all 29 NATO members. At this point, I can say that in the last three weeks or so, since the KSČM's position has been known and expressed by several of our political parties, I have been contacted both by the Canadian Party, the Canadian Defence Minister - essentially under Canada we are to be in the Baltics - and by Germany, by the German Defence Minister, with whom I have a bilateral next week in Brussels, which is very concerned about the development of the entire approval of this mission. Because here I'd like to tell you that for example. As far as Baltics are concerned, Germany is sending over 200 troops together, the entire mission will have 450 soldiers and the Czech Republic is putting 230 soldiers there. So we will be the top in this mission, and we will be the largest in this mission. So in any case - and I don't have to tell you the details of how really big question marks on the international scene caused the whole attitude and political scenes of the Czech Republic. [[The President draws attention to the time]] I would really like to ask you to take note of the mandate that we are discussing at the moment. [[The President again draws attention to the time]] This is the future of our country and I would like to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u31	Thank you, too. Mr. Vice-President Fiala and then Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u32	Mr President, I am not surprised that President Kováčik is going to stand up for Members from the coalition camp. I fully understand that, and I will, of course, not respond to this, nor will I be reduced to taking a trivial approach to this debate, which has been put in place by some Members or Members of the Government. I would just like to say to President Kováčik by your means, Mr President, and to make it clear that what I have proposed here is not an attempt on our part to bring it all down, as you said, but, of course, we have a legislative position which clearly states that if we also approve parts of the proposal in accordance with what the Senate has approved, that is, if there is no change in content, it will be valid. So don't give us anything that's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u33	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister has the floor. Before arriving at the counter, I will apologize to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková from 12 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Pour from 11.45 to 14, Mr Interior Minister from 10 a.m. to the end of the day and Mr Holík from 12.30 a.m. to the end of the meeting. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u34	Thank you for the floor. Well, of course, my performance was for your debate. You're not having a mission debate here. You're having a political debate here about government demise. So cut to the chase. Why don't you support those missions, like the government suggested? Why don't we vote? Why don't you want to vote for the missions? I respect our soldiers. And we've increased the defense budget by 20 billion. And the numbers of soldiers. And I visited our soldiers. Yes? So vote on missions! In the block. Why are you stalling again? Obstructing? Try to act normal once! You support missions, and you don't want to vote because we're in remission? So what's the debate? So vote as the government suggested. All missions en bloc, which you supposedly support. But you don't support the government in demise. Then choose what you want. Yeah? So that's what the debate is about. That's why I'm talking about bark and water, because your debate is meaningless. All you do here is obstruction. You're stalling the House. You're obstructing the adoption of laws. And you're just extending the session. Nothing else. So if you're so supportive of the missions, let's vote! We're presenting an en bloc mission. And we are fulfilling our NATO commitments. So what's the problem? Take your pick. The point is about missions. We designed it. Let's vote en bloc. Now. We need to go to work. We have a press conference for the budget today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u35	Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u36	Thank you for the floor. President Fiala, President of the ODS Fialo, through the President, when someone personally touches you, personally attacks you, I'm going to stand up for you too. It's not about whether someone is in a coalition with someone or in opposition, or whether someone is friends with someone or not, it's about how we're supposed to treat each other in a certain way decently and gentlemanly way. And I didn't find what you said to Mr. Hájek very gentlemanly, so I called with permission. And as for the other claim you made to me, I didn't say you were defending anything. I've expressed some doubt if you're willing to approve the mission with your process at all. It's my legitimate right to express these doubts. And I admit that maybe you're right about your proposal, that it can be approved in a certain way even in a divided way, but our opinion is that, if it doesn't, it doesn't. And in that regard, it's nothing about a coalition. Our position against missions that have not been approved by the UN Security Council has long been known and will be repeated again and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u37	President Kalousek, then President Bartošek, then Mr Zaorálek - withdraws, I see. Mr. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u38	Thank you. I don't know if the Prime Minister's admonition towards opposition benches means he doesn't understand or doesn't want to understand. For long-term commitments or for a budget or similar drafts, it is not only what is presented and the material content, but it is also important who presents it and with what legitimacy. It's just that the discussion's part of it. It's from a government that's got no trust here, and we're six months after the election. We do not feel the legitimacy of this government to long-term commitments, and we only approach this because we do not want to insure our partners in terms of foreign policy orientation of the Czech Republic. But this discussion is pointless because this government is not legitimate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u39	President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u40	Dear Prime Minister, who just left the O.R.... Well, we're quite legitimately discussing missions here. And until you got off, that was a rather sophisticated discussion. Given the way you have expressed yourself - approve it right now, right now, without discussion - I have no choice but to say that compared to you, the communists are democrats! And one more thing. I understand that the budget is a complicated material. But if you equal the lives of our soldiers in foreign missions and budget, your press conference means nothing to me compared to the lives of our soldiers in foreign missions. As Prime Minister, you should be present at this point!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u41	That was the last point in fact, so we can go back to the debate and speak with Mrs Černochová and prepare Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I'd like to respond first to some of my previous speakers. Originally, I really wanted to follow up on what our President of the ODS Petr Fiala said here, but given what was said here, I have to respond. I would first respond by your means to my colleague Kováčik, the President of the KSČM Club. I assume that Mr Kováčik sat in the Chamber of Deputies in 2007. So he remembers that, on a proposal from the KSČM, there was a separate vote on missions. [[10.40 hours]] The legislative position on this when one chamber votes separately on the same matter is clear. The moment there's penetration, it's assumed that the mission that the breach is in is approved by both chambers. This is the written opinion of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. And I'm surprised that you, as an experienced matador, through the Vice-President, don't know this. Moreover, as I say, in 2007, it was the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia that demanded the Topolánkův Government to vote on individual missions. In response to Mr Hájek's colleague, through the Vice-President, and in a way also to Prime Minister Babiš. Prime Minister, if your members of the ANO movement were to go to work, there might not be a problem with the fact that this is the first time in history that missions did not pass the Defence Committee! And why didn't the missions go through the defense committee? Because the members of the YES did not come to work. And you know who didn't come to work, Prime Minister? Mr Hájek, who trained us here yesterday from who was at work and who was not at work, did not come to work. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] So the shot goose is the one who's stuck in here the most! Prime Minister, if your Secretary of Defense, Mr Martin Stropnický, had not dried a letter from Mr Mattis, from Mr Stoltenberg of November 2017, we could have already had Afghanistan approved! In November 2017, there was still a legitimate government, even though the elections were over. The government had legitimacy. This resolution, this letter, we had this request on both the Defence Committee and yesterday we had it on bilateral grounds in negotiations with the US Party, with the US Embassy. So really, make peace with your members, Prime Minister, whether you know it or ask them why they didn't come to work. He wasn't just a colleague of Hájek's, but I'm not going to name the others here. Mr. Babiš can look that up for himself. But that YES, which has a majority, in the Committee on Defence, underestimates such a serious vote as voting on missions that they do not come and expect the opposition to approve their points? Such crucial points? Madam Secretary, if it really mattered to your ANO colleagues to approve these missions, they would have acted completely differently. So don't blame us as opposed! President Fiala here has made the position of the ODS clear. And I would also like to say that foreign policy for our party has always been, is and will be one of the main topics, because we consider it crucial to the existence of our state, to ensure its defence, even in stormy times, in which not only Europe but the whole world is torn apart. We see our anchoring in the North Atlantic alliance as crucial, as well as maintaining a strong transatlantic line. And I'm sure you will remember, and President Fiala said that it was the ODS who always supported the deployment of Czech soldiers in foreign operations, and you never heard from our mouths that it should ever be different. Our position is not changing, and we are deeply convinced that our troops abroad have benefits in several levels. Due to the size of the Czech Republic, we must be active in conflict and post-conflict areas. I was the one who tried to present a resolution here in the last parliamentary term that would commit the Czech Republic to faster fulfilling 2% of GDP, and it was you, fellow members of the ANO movement who rejected it. And if, as the Prime Minister here said, we had an increased budget, we wouldn't have spent it anyway, because all the acquisition issues that were in that budget from the big acquisitions weren't closed in the last parliamentary term. Each year there were 4 billion, 5 billion, only one budget was relatively balanced and only 2 billion were left, when Minister Stropnický had the Gripens subscribed. Each deployment takes the ODS: Increases the capabilities of our army, individual soldiers and whole. That means one thing - strengthening our country's defenses. And finally, because of the fight against evil and far from our borders, we are safer. The importance of foreign operations is not only convinced by me, but by all of you who have ever had the opportunity to look into some foreign operation, so every time I have the opportunity, I am glad to express my admiration and respect for our soldiers and to hear superlatives about their work from the mouths of our allies. We've had debates with a lot of people in the last few days. Yesterday we also discussed missions with the Prime Minister, and yesterday we had a discussion with representatives of the United States Embassy about the importance of our cooperation. We met with allies' requests for assistance in Afghanistan, as I said, dated November 2017. So it is not that we are stalling here, we were not discussing something, but that, paradoxically, we are only discussing this point because the Member, President of the KDU-ČSL Club, Mr Bartošek, has read this point firmly, so that is why we are discussing it here today! Have you forgotten that if it weren't for Bartošek's colleagues, you wouldn't give a damn about missions? You guys weren't even able to get that point fixed so there'd be enough of you? In the ODS, we decided that we wanted to be a constructive opposition. We care about promoting the interests of the Czech Republic. We care about maintaining the good name of the Czech Republic and our allied commitments. Moreover, the President of the Republic will appoint Andrej Babiš as Prime Minister next Wednesday, June 6th. So they divide us only a few days from the moment this government ends up in demise, which is not to say that the coming semi-communist will be better for the government. Anyway, there's a presumption that the government will be in the order of weeks. So we have decided to behave constructively, not to hold hands, and we just hope that you, members of YES, will remember that when you start your voting machine again, which uncompromisingly eliminates the legislative and procedural proposals of our opposition. Perhaps naively, but I hope that, in some other vote with the Communists and the SPD, you will remember this helpfulness. In view of the recent days and all that I have said here, we have therefore decided, as President Fiala said, to support the mandate for sending troops abroad, although presented by the government without confidence, completely chaotic and unthinkable, which shows, for example, recent statements by the Minister of Defence about the consideration of sending our soldiers still to Lebanon, which I learn from the article from the EURO, under the heading "Czechs instead of Fin. The Pandura army wants to go to Lebanon." Strange! Perhaps the Minister here should explain to us what this is all about and why Lebanon is not in the material and what the Minister wants, or what the government wants. And if we actually approve missions by 2021 today, it is the final vote at least this year, or if the Minister or the Minister, or the Minister, presume that either they or their successors would still submit some new posting of soldiers into foreign operations this year to some other countries as well as in relation to what coalition will be here. [[10.50 hours]] So the connection with the government, with the coalition treaty, with the government's agenda priorities, Prime Minister, is here because indeed foreign policy - and the former Foreign Minister Zaorálek is about to speak, so I assume that my words will be confirmed - foreign policy must be a match of all the members of the government coalition, not just one that presents something, and the others, as has been said repeatedly here, and we read it from the media, have a different opinion on the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u43	Now I have two factual points here. First, Mr Bělica and then the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u44	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Secretary, the ministers present. I dare to respond to my previous speaker because I don't think it should go unanswered. Mr Hájek and others have been duly excused from the appointed committee by reason of their participation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly Committee. The Defence Committee has 18 members. YES has seven deputies. That's not most of them. I'd be happy not to lie at this counter. I think it's very important. This resolution did not go through you, Mrs Černochová, through Mr President. And I must say that my colleague Schwarzenberg also voted in favour, for which I would like to thank him. So what's it like, anyway? When there's cameras, when there's witnesses, we say something, and when there's no cameras, do we say something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u45	Madam Secretary of Defense, then Mrs. Mrs. Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also have to respond, because the Defence Committee under the direction of President Černochová is acting as a standard so that I feel like a representative of perhaps first-class elementary school there, and I do not think that I am really shining and just not drowning. So that's what I'd like to turn against. As for UNIFIL, you have already discussed this here, Madam President, perhaps not here in plenary, perhaps in recent years. Well, at least I had the guts to justify and analyse the number of soldiers and, more importantly, the techniques that might have been required of us, and I have the analysis. That's all I had to say. And I am also surprised by how you express yourself in plenary. The Chamber of Deputies and then, as you speak on the Defence Committee, including yesterday, thanks to my apology, when I met 34 representatives of NATO members and other partner states. I really haven't been to dinner or coffee. I think that the Czech general becoming head of NATO committees for the military health of all NATO states is a great success, and I think that you should not constantly ridicule me in this way. I'd like to go back to discussing the foreign missions of our soldiers. Soldiers have been preparing for many months to leave. Next week on the sixth, the first batch leaves for the Baltics. There's another batch leaving for the Baltics in a week. The next months will be more soldiers leaving for other foreign missions. I would like us to really talk about the mandate you have before you. We all understand politics, we all understand that it is presented to you by the Minister in resignation, Minister in resignation, Government in resignation, but, as I say, our foreign demands that are imposed on us are really very important to our state's foreign policy. [[Time warning.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u47	Thank you. Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't think we have to make fun of the Minister, because the Minister is mocking herself, whether it's her sentences about the legionnaires fighting Hitler or the dog on the grave of an unknown private, I think we've actually witnessed in recent weeks that the Minister does not need to be ridiculed, she does so with great vigor for the applause of ANO colleagues herself. You know, if we're reading from the media that there's a lot of machinations going on at the Ministry of Defence and those machinations in the public competition, I suppose, because who else besides the predecessor of the Secretary of Defense, that means Mr. Stropnický, and the military police are involved, it's actually a wonder that we want to ask what's still sitting in the building, what's going on there, as members of the Madam Secretary's committee. Can you imagine that any other government would ever tolerate such a thing among its ministers, this war, which is not a silent war, but is a public war in the media, so that, at other times, the Chamber of Deputies would tolerate such a thing and that an extraordinary meeting would not be convened, the commission of inquiry was not convened, the committee called every week? Madam Secretary, we're calling a signature committee, and please, I don't have eight signatures, I only have one signature. [[Time warning]] Even some of the ANO colleagues said they would be willing to sign up for the meeting. [[Time, colleague!]] And it was I who told them not to do so, that they would not survive at the club YES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u49	Madam Secretary of Defense, then Mr. Secretary of State. Real notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor the Minister of Defence are at war. These are contracts of a nature which the Military Intelligence assessed so seriously that, on my part, it was determined and initiated by me to investigate inspections of the Minister of Defence, where people have not changed since I arrived, Madam President. I'd like to turn to the fact that you're really insulting me here, making fun of me. You're doing it on every defense committee. And I don't think I'm worth anything less than you, Madam President. You're always treating me -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u51	Please, through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u52	- in a truly incredible way through Mr President. I do not know where President Černochová, through Mr President, dares every Minister of Defence, whether it was Minister Stropnickýý or I, behave in this way. You guys got an ODS offer to become part of the coalition, you turned it down, you can't be Secretary of Defense, so at least you're checking us out on the committee. But you're not my advisory body! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u53	Mr. Foreign Minister, after him President Bartošek, after him President Stanjura, all factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Marcus Porcius Cato, by your means, Mr President, would not have done it better. In any speech by the President of the Defence Committee, we will always see such a crushing resumé, which I will not really comment on, because I can comment, or I can argue with numbers that are widely known, whether it be an increase in the number of soldiers, whether it be an increase in the budget etc. It seems tacky to me, because, moreover, my colleague, Mr President, knows the figures very well and also knows very well the numbers of those acquisitions which one of my predecessors, ODS, has acquired at the time. But let's leave it, please. Couldn't we really get back to those missions? Do we have to take every opportunity to exhibate or blunt someone who has a different opinion or who may have committed some misrepresentation, which sometimes happens at work? But we'd go back to what was the subject of our call. Otherwise, we can endlessly brag about our inclination to the West or some transatlantic ties, but if we question the essentials, which means our active involvement in these ties, it sounds a little hypocritical, don't be mad at me. And then there's still-- that's what we often take to our mouths, those soldiers, how we love them, how we love them, how we appreciate them. Well, imagine that they're there on the starting line and they know a few years in advance that some missionary task is going to involve them, very carefully and demandingly preparing for it, and we're going to tell them that we don't know that we might be putting it off. That's a thing that totally demoralizes. [[11.00 hours]] In this context, I might even give one small example. It's a metaphor, of course, so please don't take my word for it, but one of the big differences between cops and soldiers is that a policeman does his active duty automatically every day. It's part of the profession. The soldier is actually preparing for it permanently, and the mission is the culmination of the preparation. So there's this aspect of it. If we appreciate the soldiers, please approve of the missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u55	Thank you, too. I beg President Bartošek, if there is a factual point. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u56	I, Mr Vice-President, want to respond to the ongoing debate. Let's get back to the subject we're discussing. It's not even a contract, it's not, let's say, a media presentation by the Minister or a committee meeting. At this point, we are discussing truly foreign missions. Let's go back to this point, let's discuss it and let's approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u57	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point is from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u58	I wanted to speak to the Secretary of State, but he did the usual figure, told us something and left. Well, I'll say it, maybe she can hear me somewhere, or she'll read it somewhere. We have clearly made it clear in public, yesterday and not publicly at the political negotiations with the ANO movement, and our position is quite clear that we are ready and will support all the missions. We made that clear, so here's some talk about somebody bragging about leaning towards the West, so maybe they're the ones dragging the Communists into the government. They brag about how they're part of it. [[unintelligible]] At the same time, they are discussing government with communists and dodging them and meeting them on foreign policy issues, on personnel issues, on programme issues. At the same time, they say they want to belong to the West. Then let the Foreign Minister - he certainly knows - read the foreign policy program KSČM, his coalition and his loyal coalition partner. First of all. Two. The Minister, the Committees and the House are not an advisory body, no, but the Government of the Czech Republic answers to Parliament as a whole, and the Minister of Defence lays down his accounts on the Defence Committee. If you don't like it and you don't want to hear any other opinions, don't do the job. Find somewhere where everyone will praise you and say how great you are, how you do it, they'll do it from morning to night, and maybe you'll be happier. We're doing normal opposition work. It's funny to question Jana Černochová's competence. Respect has to be worked out and fought out, it doesn't come with a function. Respect is that this guy can do something. I'm not judging anyone, I'm just saying general remarks that should apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Feranc's point of fact now, then Mr Žáček, Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Kováčik. So now, Mr Milan Feranec, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello, I will be brief. We're all here cursing the interests of the Czech Republic, the interests of soldiers in missions. I'll just fill it in. I guess what Mr. Borovský once said is true here: I wish the Lord of all that patriotism would shove into our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u61	Thank you for a very effective statement in the factual context. Now the factual remark of Mr. Pavel Žáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u62	I would like to comment, of course, on the meeting of our committee, the Committee on Defence. Definitely, there should be a great deal of emphasis on the importance of the negotiations. I believe that this non-political buy-in, that there is no attempt at preliminary negotiations, there is no attempt at agreement, there is no attempt to know the position of that partner and colleague or opposition representative, I think it leads to this. Because it's completely unclear what kind of government, virtually. The coalition as a whole has an opinion on the missions, that is how it comes from, which is why this discussion is based on. I think it is necessary, and I support the chair of the committee in this regard, to take a stand. At the same time, I would ask the Minister what is in Lebanon's background for us to be informed and to be assured that nothing else will come soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Bělobrádek, with a point of fact, will be prepared by colleague Kováčik. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on what the Prime Minister said, unfortunately, he is not here, but also on what was going on in the government. Yes, it was added under our government to the Ministry of Defence budget, but in some items against the will of the then Minister of Finance Babiš and against the will - expressed by the vote on the government - of the then Minister of Defence. So to say this - against the will of the current Prime Minister and against the will of the then Minister of Defence, the defense budget was increased, and this was not enough, because the increase should have been higher. Let's hear it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u65	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Now a factual comment by the President of the KSČM MP's club Pavel Kováčik. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u66	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, towards the chairman of the ODS Club and his comment on the bringing of communists into government. The debate that's going on here isn't about missions. The debate that's going on here seems a little weird to me. In my opinion, it could have been a long time ago, and in the meantime, we're blaming each other for small or larger pokes, and we're insulting each other here, and I don't think that's where they belong. Club KSČM is definitely ready to discuss things e.g. Afghanistan. And I assure you through the President, President Stanjur, that we will not be drawn into government or into anything else, that our post-election procedure has been completely legitimate, democratically accepted. And since you haven't left and said in advance that who and why you aren't going into these negotiations, we think that after the election, we need to discuss what the government is supposed to look like in this republic and exhaust all options. That's all we've done, and that's all we've done. You guys turned it down in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u67	Thank you, Pavel Kováčik. Now, Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS, also another factual point. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u68	I would like to respond to the speeches made by the two speakers before me in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Madam Secretary of Defense said a sentence - I will not use strong words - which is not true. You got an offer to go to the government, you turned her down. We didn't, but we don't mind. Just so we understand each other, we really don't mind. To President Kováčik. Well, many wonder, I don't know why we're doing what we said before the election after the election. Seems normal to me. Look at the calendar for that hard work to gain confidence. The second attempt has not yet begun, the second government has not yet been appointed. Then the 30-day deadline for her to come forward will begin. This seems to me like the smiling words of some constitutional officials who have accelerated last week, want to contribute to speed, speed up after seven months of doing nothing. And it creates the appearance that it's normal that the government doesn't have confidence. It's not normal. It's not normal, and we've been drawing attention to that for a long time. That's the core of the poodle of our debate. We made it clear yesterday that we were ready to support the missions that I will propose later at the end of the debate not to vote on them today, at a time when they will have confidence, and that we are able to say publicly on the microphone here that it may well be right at the meeting when the vote on trust will be held. If the government gains confidence, then the points of the other missions that can withstand the delay from today can be included, and we are ready - I say this here for the civil democrats - that in this case we will vote clearly in favour. So the whole argument is whether or not the government should do it without trust. It is precisely to honour the allied commitments that we have retreated from our position and are ready to do so, and we will do so in the vote, in support of the missions in Afghanistan and in the Baltics. [[President: Mr President, Mr President...]] I wonder if the Communists will do the same!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u69	I would like us to respect the Rules of Procedure. So, now a colleague of Kováčik, also with a factual remark, and then a Member of Parliament's Svoboda. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u70	Thank you for the floor. It's fair to say that this government, and I don't like the fact that no government has confidence yet here so long after the election, isn't the first to rule here for a long time without trust. I think it was Mirek Topolánek's government, which only a few days ago was overcome in the length of government without trust. That seems fair to me to say here. And on the previous note. It is precisely for what we are discussing here today, and some other small things, KSČM or government, are not stuffed, as they say, nor are they drawn into government. We're not going to be a government party, we're not going to be in that government if there is one, just because we have our programming differences from other potential participants in the foreign policy and defence areas. However, the point is for the government to rule here with confidence, to calm the argument, and to finally start doing something meaningful. Our programme, which is embodied in the upcoming programming declaration, allows us to tolerate this government if our central authorities decide to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u71	I thank President Kováčik for his time. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, now with a factual remark and another factual comment by colleague Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I'm listening to some kind of wannabe constructive proposition here: let's stop talking around and let's vote. That seems very wise. But it's not wise. This world is such that people's opinions are governed by the media sphere. Everyone has different access options to the media sphere. That is why I believe that if we open up these topics here and discuss all the circumstances and then make it clear here that the KSČM wants to support the government, but it has other political views on foreign policy solutions, that it is very important that it will sound here. It just sounds true and there are people who listen to the truth. We have no other way of opening up a discussion on what the background of these decisions is. But here it may sound. And that's why, even though I have very, very little time, I don't have the mines for time, I'm sitting here listening to it, and I don't think it's a waste of time. And whoever says "let's leave the talk and let's vote" is making a mistake. That's not the MP that thinks. That's the MP who's in a hurry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to President Stanjur on another factual point, I apologise to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Jaroslava Němcová, from 11 to 12 o'clock. Now, then, a factual comment from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u74	I know that the historical comparisons tempt someone to use it against us and say, "You guys were the same, so what are you criticizing us for?" You broke the window, so we can break it too. So let's get the facts, let's tell the whole truth here and not just a torn number. Yes, when Mirek Topolánek was looking for confidence in the Chamber of Deputies, he lacked three votes in his first attempt and had the support of three clubs out of five. In this case, this government had only support from its club and was missing about 19 or 20 votes. I'm sorry I don't know exactly. A long way from trusting you. We forgot that our honored left had a hundred mandates, KSČM and ČSSD for more than two months blocked the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Then the interim chairman was elected for the full term of office. Those are the paradoxes, the temporary military stays and all that. That's also true. And Mr Kováčik, President of the Kováčik Club, says: we are not a government party, but our programming priorities are in this government statement. I assume that for the political party, at least for us, key programming priorities are. If the government of Andrej Babiš II has in its programme the programme priorities of the Communist Party, as President Kováčik says, and that it is satisfied, so if I vote very mildly, I will say that it is a semi-communist government, and to comply with the wishes of President Kováčik, it is such a semi-governmental party. Because when you have a program, you're happy. But don't forget, they still want the posts. They call it control activity. But not the opposition. The semi-governmental party wants positions in state firms and institutions to control the semi-communist government. Well, that's funny.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u75	Well, thank you for keeping time this time. Now Mr Pavel Žáček, then Mr Pavel Kováčik, also with factual remarks. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u76	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would like to add one more thing which is also closely linked to the work of our Defence Committee, and that the debate there is quite rich. It must be said that, with surprise, some of the information from the Minister was also answered by colleagues from YES and asked some questions because they did not know about these matters. And it is certainly necessary to reject the policy that the sharp statements are in the media at first, so that we cannot talk about them on the floor of the committee, where this is primarily intended, whether to that part of the public or to that part of the private. Second thing. I would reject, quite fundamentally, what happened here, that soldiers in missions are our hostages. If they're already hostages, then those people who are responsible for the acquisitions, and that's why we need to talk about the acquisitions here in one package. Because we may send out the soldiers, but they won't have the right equipment, they won't have the right equipment, and this may be a major problem. So I think it's a package as much as it is with the political conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u77	Thank you for keeping time and now for the factual comment made by the President of the KSČM MP Pavel Kováčik. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u78	Thank you for the floor, I hope the last factual point on this subject. Well, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, you know that, we're still learning. We haven't been with the government in a long time, but it seems to me that the relationship that we now have in the negotiations to finally begin to rule here is somewhat better and more decent than the position that then resulted in the so-called opposition treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u79	Well, thank you. Now, Mr Lipavský proper application, Mr Peksa will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u80	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr President. So I'm just gonna take the liberty of reacting to my previous speaker. I hope you won't be with the government for a long time. [[A little applause from the right side of the boardroom.]] There was a comparison here to whether we were sending firemen to Poland. I would like to say that we are sending soldiers to a foreign country, such as Mali or Afghanistan. And it is a fundamental difference, and the level of the debate must be consistent with that. Because the Constitution of the Czech Republic directly predicts or writes that Parliament agrees to send the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the territory of the Czech Republic. It doesn't say anything about firefighters. So this debate must be extremely political and, of course, it is an absolutely crucial matter. It's not a technique, it's not an operational matter. It is a fundamental decision in international policy. Therefore, in detail, I would like to discuss our position a little more, or as we see it at the club, and what the Czech foreign policy should be about sending troops and overall the geopolitical situation. We must not be the victims of domestic political games within our international position. I think everyone realizes that if the mission mandate is not approved, it will damage us in an incredible way abroad. It'd be a ruse. I had the opportunity to speak to a large number of foreign representatives, and everyone is asking the same question. All the missions we currently have are of a peaceful nature, not fighting anywhere. Of course, these are problematic questions, otherwise we wouldn't have sent soldiers. For example, our presence in Afghanistan and Iraq helps stabilize local regimes and governments. [[11.20 hours]] Our army is professional, and it's a pretty crucial thing. We've been perfectly evaluated all over the country. We're getting compliments, and we're sure if we send our men and women somewhere, we'll do 100%. I would like to say that we are equal partners with our foreign allies. What was here 30 years ago, the communist army, what the Czechoslovak People's Army looked like, was a canonfoter that had a lifetime of 72 hours, and then Soviet troops were to come. We have a whole different army today. They're pros. This means that our army serves to protect the Czech Republic to protect Europe. I would like to read what Karel Čapek wrote in Hovory with Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk about the army. It'll be cut short. "I'm a determined pacifist, but I like the army. If I want peace, it doesn't mean that I accept an attack without defense, on the contrary. I want peace practically, not utopianly. This means that in order to maintain peace, he will use all the power, wit and love for nation and humankind, but if necessary, all the power of defense. That's why be fearless, manly, as powerful as possible. There is never and never was the least contradiction between my humanityism and my efforts to defend the state." I would like to say that, in this context, it is absolutely crucial for us not only to send soldiers and build an army, but also to increase in the long term the funds that go into development and humanitarian aid, because one does not work without the other. There's no point sending soldiers anywhere without the country stabilizing without us sending them there with that vision that the state will be independent for a long time, that when the army leaves, for example, we can send our civilian experts there, who will continue to develop that country. I'm sure we want a good partnership. For the security of the Czech Republic or the Czech Republic, and now let us look at a thousand years of our history, it is absolutely crucial that our neighbours be our good partners. Whenever we had troubled neighbors in history, it ended in trouble. I don't want to give specific examples, but I think they're attacking each and every one of us. Today we are part of the European Union and we are part of NATO, and we are part of it voluntarily. Nobody brought the membership here on the tank belts. It's crucial to understand. And the international environment is still to some extent anarchist. The power of states is also given by their military power, by the power of how many armies they are able to send somewhere. That's a simple fact. That is why the United States is a superpower because they are the most powerful, which is why other states are also armed. And if we want to be part of NATO and the European Union, we must also actively participate in membership of these organisations. In the case of NATO, it's giving that military contribution, sending those soldiers out, supporting them. NATO is not an attack pact, NATO does not draw darts in Moscow, NATO does not draw darts in the Middle East. In the Middle East, we are fighting Islamic terrorism, or we are supporting Iraq in the fight against Islamic terrorism, the same thing in Afghanistan. And I would like to say that in the Czech Republic, the word solidarity has become a dirty word, and we must support our allies, give them the contribution, because when we need something back, we will get it from them. And that's why the Baltic missions are absolutely crucial to us. We must show the Baltic States that we are behind them. We have to solve problems on the spot and prevent them there, because the moment it comes to us, to the Czech border, it is too late. It'll simply be too late. And the same goes for our contributions, currently financial or, for example, from the point of view of the police we have, in the southern part of Europe, where migration is being dealt with. So we need to realize that our real borders are no longer in Rozvadov or Bohumín. There's no difference whether we're in Liberec or Tart or Salisbury or Mladá Boleslav. I've chosen cities with the same population. We must reject the illusion that we are some neutral bridge between East and West. There's no such thing. We are part of Europe and we must act accordingly. I would like to say that the mission in Mali is for us a perfect example of how we should proceed in the fight against migration - no, sorry, not exactly, but in reducing illegal migration. And stabilizing the African region. It has a UN mandate and, of course, it is vital to us that everyone agrees on this. So I would like to conclude with the fact that we will support a large majority of our club today's vote on missions, because this is a key issue for the geopolitical direction of our entire country. It's not something that's here for a year, for two. It's not some kind of political game. It's a thing that puts us in Europe, where we belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u81	Thank you, Mr Lipavský. Now, Mr Mikuláš Peksa, the President of the Foreign Committee of the Zaorálek will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to my predecessor for calming things down a little bit, because after the two-hour heithe that's going on here, I really have no confidence that this vote is going to end well. I would like to lobby specifically here in this place for this mission in the Baltics, because I think it's really important. The states of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are states that have been formed by the collapse of the Soviet Union. And I think that we should keep them in mind precisely because they are culturally similar to us, they are European Union states and are, in some sense, threatened by a stronger neighbour. We had a Lithuanian and Estonian ambassador here in the House, we talked to them about it, and it was clear at both of these meetings that the Litevec and the Estonec saw us as reliable allies who never had a problem contributing to them. That support was always a matter of course for them. That's why I'd like to ask you not to question this, because that would be really wrong. As much as someone in this House may not have to hear the arguments of an alliance, please note that we actually operate as one country. We are part of the European Economic Area, we are part of the Schengen area. That means our people travel freely to these states, settle there, live their lives there. Similarly, our businesses do business there, we do business with them, there are goods flowing without any obstacles. I think that the European Union should clearly protect those territories. I'm a little surprised that NATO is responsible for their defense. However, we should defend them. Please, regardless of how you feel about missions in general, support this mission, these missions. They're defensive missions, and they're important to our country and our allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u83	I thank Mr Peks. But before my colleague Zaorálk, Mr. Pavel Žáček, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u84	I'd only like to make a little technical comment. The Baltic States did not come from the breakup of the Soviet Union, but from the end of World War I. They happen to have a hundred years since their statehood or restoration of their statehood, as well as Czechoslovakia, or the Czechoslovak Republic. So it's just a little technical repair. They have a history. And it must be said that they were occupied by Soviet power... twice, actually, once German, and restored their statehood in 1991 in connection with the collapse of the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u85	Thank you. My colleague Žáček has called for another debate. Mr Peksa, with a factual remark. No, I'm still registering a colleague of the Zaorálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u86	Thank you. Just for a colleague. A žáček through Mr President. Of course, I'm completely aware of the difference. Those states had a moving history similar to Czechoslovakia, which originated in 1918, then somehow developed in 1938, 1939. Then it developed differently between 1945 and 1948. After 1948, things turned out differently. We had events here in 1968, I don't know if you want to characterize it as an extinction in some sense of Czechoslovakia, or what you want to say about it. It changed again in 1989. I think the history of the 20th century is moving, complicated. I've made it a little easier, but of course I'm aware those states have a history like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u87	Thank you. Now, Chairman of the Foreign Committee, Lubomír Zaorálek. Before him... with priority rights, Mr. Chairman, would you like that? No. I'll see you later. So without priority rights according to the order of Chairman Zaorálek, then Chairman of KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u88	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I understand the missions are basically like shining and drowning, all the more so, that it should be said here that the missions that we've put forward here are actually a continuation, and they're still part of something that's been being done here for the last four years. There is no shocking surprise for the House. That doesn't mean there's nothing to discuss, I didn't say that, but I said that where we're sending soldiers in this proposal corresponds to the policy we've been doing in recent years, which is why I said that it feels like it's shining and drowning, and I think it didn't come out here because it's not a proposal that's just been made here at once. There are rumors that this is a government that is in remission, but it should be said that it is a policy that has just been done here. That means it's not a new debate. These are often not new missions or some we would not know about, which we would not be able to follow for some time. The second thing I'd like to say about the debate. Mr. Fiala said he doesn't want to politicize the debate, and I mean it quite positively, this remark. I don't understand why, because this is the ultimate political debate. Where the country sends soldiers, that's the ultimate political issue. So I'd say, what do you want to talk about here in this House, unless this is a first-class policy that has to be talked about politically, with all the political implications and ties it has? Just as other Members in other countries say: when you send soldiers, think of it as if they were your sons and daughters, and you may send them to their deaths. So what the hell else is important political debate in a country other than this? And this is how we should treat it. Of course, something else is politics. And I would like these words to be separated: to politicize something, to talk about political responsibility, and to politicize. But this calls for a top political debate, because it is a fundamental decision that has many consequences. Not only does it carry risks, we send them somewhere, they can face death tomorrow, but also the fact that we are creating a country's foreign policy. Each such posting shall have implications. This has to do with the contacts we have in those countries. We send soldiers somewhere, we piss somebody off and we get somebody else, so it's just a foreign policy act par excellence. Every mission like this. And of course I'm not just saying this here to say that everything is black and white and clear. And I think this mission debate is extremely important. Let me give you an example of how it is also political decision making. There are missions like the Baltic mission. I'll give you one argument about why I raise my hand for the Pobaltí. In recent years, and especially in conclusion, when I was sitting among the Alliance Member States in Brussels, I was basically ashamed, because the expenditures on defense of this state were declining irresistibly until we fell to the bottom. Iceland was worse off than we were, I guess. So I was afraid to talk to you at the last meeting I was in. Because, you know? When you're sitting somewhere and everyone knows it, the numbers, it's like you've got a little bit written on your forehead, so what do you want to say about wanting to do something when you're actually not even doing the essential thing? And we can, you know, debate if 2, 1.4. But we don't even do the basics. And I say it, and I didn't say it in this House, but it felt like a decent person had to be ashamed! We went there voluntarily, we decided, now we're sitting there and we're driving. And we don't even do that elemental thing! So if we're still saying we're not sending those missions to the Baltics, I'd say somebody else is going to sit there, 'cause that's impossible. A solid man can't stand this. Either we're there or we're not there. So we just do the things that are asked of us, at least elementaryly. And I'm saying it hard here. These are the things that are, and here everyone should be saying what they're thinking. That's why we're here as MPs. In what Mr Svoboda said, it was likable that a hurried Member was a bad Member. Everyone here should be talking to see what's in it. That's why we're here to make it clear what people can expect from us, and I think this is crucial. Let me get this straight. We're in the Alliance, aren't we? And if it doesn't, there's a connection, or I wouldn't really want to go there as a minister, to be ashamed, again. That's just the way it is, and it's good to know. And otherwise, I'd like to pick up missions in Mali. I think it has a huge foreign policy significance. This is also important because, for example, Mali is the Central African Republic in which very important ways of organized crime, smugglers, those who organise migration are crossed. There are major centers. Our mission in Mali is very well perceived not only by the Francouz, and it is something that we began to learn, it was not easy to go into a French-speaking environment and so on. And the fact that these soldiers are handling it, I think, is very... It's a matter of the future. We must be interested in the future of Africa. Africa represents a very important partner to the future, but also a problem for Europe. That's why we need to be interested in the knowledge of Africa and in this area. That is why I think it is very important how the mission will continue to evolve. We should be quite interested in how we will continue to do so. On the contrary, I'm more skeptical in Afghanistan. The minister here said in his speech that the Taliban had to understand something, or something like that was formulation. Don't be mad at me, but the Tálibán won't understand anything. The Taliban in Afghanistan are strengthening. I had the opportunity to meet with Afghan government officials, and it just seems to me that the government is weak, I say it right here, the armed forces are not getting better, they are getting worse, the Afghans, and the Taliban are strengthening. Because we send soldiers there, and the effect isn't very visible. I'm sure we need to talk about this. Not only in the Czech Republic, it is simply a wider debate. And I'm not proposing a surprising resolution today, but I'm saying it's just a question. Frankly, Afghanistan isn't going well, and if we're sending soldiers somewhere, we should be watching these things. I recommend here today that we accept, of course, the proposal as it was adopted, but I wish it were with the political seriousness that the material deserves, and I am convinced that it does not represent anything of the kind to question itself as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u89	Thank you to the Chairman of the Foreign Committee. I have two applications, and that is now for President Bartošek and then for President Kalousek, but not for a factual but proper application. Okay. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In connection with the discussion of today's point, allow me to take a short trip to the past, because this year we commemorate the 50th anniversary of the occupation of our country by friendly armies and friendly armies. In fact, they probably weren't that friendly, because when they jumped into our republic, they probably didn't mean it with us when they stopped the democratic development to the freedom that we were going through at the time. And this lesson from the past is important for us to realize our presence in which we are. I believe that our alliance within the North Atlantic Alliance is absolutely crucial to our security and peace in the space in which we live. I believe that one of the most important points of these missions that we are approving today is the mission in the Baltics, because it concerns precisely the direct and main purpose on which NATO was created, and that is the collective defence of the allies and their mutual solidarity. For this mission, it must be said that in the Baltics and Poland, the Allied soldiers operate at the request of these countries in accordance with the contractual obligations of collective defence in the territory of the alliance states. So here it is important to say that it is for example. in particular, no mandate of the United Nations Security Council shall apply to this mission. I ask you, honourable Members, to support these missions, these foreign missions, because I believe that by supporting this proposal, which has already been passed by the Senate and has been approved there, we will also give a clear signal that we are aware of the commitments we have and that we are fulfilling them, and to which we committed ourselves a few years ago. [[11.40 hours]] For me, this is also a clear expression of healthy Czech patriotism. At the beginning of July, the NATO Summit will be held in Brussels, and I think it is important for the Czech Republic and for our prestige that when we do not implement the budget as we have committed ourselves to have approved missions by at least this summit, because for me personally, and I hope that the good reputation of the Czech Republic abroad is important for you, honourable Members. When fighting in Spain, it was then agitated in Czechoslovakia, at the time of the civil war in Spain: At the gates of Madrid there is also fighting for Prague. This is the case today that, in Vilnius or Riga, our soldiers are also defending our freedom in our home. I ask you, honourable Members, to support this material, because this is a vote for the security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u91	I thank Mr Bartošek. Now MP Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, in support of the approval of this material, I would like another reminiscence, which I said on the Defence Committee. This year we commemorate the 100th anniversary of the establishment of a modern democratic state. That state wouldn't have come if it hadn't had his military foreign mission. Only when Masaryk had his legions did the superpowers take him seriously and make a significant contribution to the emergence of Czechoslovakia. It is also good to remember this parallel to our modern 28 years of free state existence, because all our missions, Desert Storm starting with and ongoing missions, significantly increased the foreign prestige of the Czech Republic and significantly strengthened our country's defences, because when we decided on a collective defence system, our participation in collective events strengthens our own security. There we defend not only our allies, but by participating we contribute to our own defense. This is something that needs to be realized. And speaking of parallels and reminiscences, Mr Bartošek, who remembered the Soviet occupation 50 years ago, and Mr Feranec here quoted Karel Havlíček Borovský, so let me also quote Karel Havlíček Borovský, who said that Rus like to refer to everything Russian as Slavic so that they can claim that everything Slavic is Russian. He said that in 1844, but some quotes are obviously timeless. That's why we need to approve the missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u93	That was Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Now also the application by the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur, then a colleague of Farský. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u94	Thank you for the floor. At the end of my speech, I will propose a procedure for how we could vote in three options. And by the time I get to it, it rarely happens to me, so it is such a price, for me it is a price, a moment that I agree with the Foreign Committee's chairman that the debate on such points must be extremely political, and individual clubs or individual parties should clearly present their views on such an important issue for our foreign policy orientation and for the security of the Czech Republic as well as for the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. And with that aim, we as citizens' democrats have agreed to discuss missions. I am glad that we are not alone in this and that many other parties and many other clubs understand that it is not a technique, that it is not a common thing. If you look at the mandate, the Chamber of Deputies can get to something similar in about 24 months. We decide on 2019 and 2020. In support of my amendments in the procedure, I would like to say that there is really no danger of delay in those missions outside Afghanistan and the Baltics, because all the missions are from 1 January 2019. It is true what the Foreign Committee Chairman Lubomír Zaorálek said, apart from perhaps Afghanistan, it is basically just a continuation of the number of persons and the size of the contingent whose deployment we approve. And I think that this is a really special point, an extremely important one, and that is why we have shaped our political position through the mouths of President Petr Fiala and the chairwoman of the committee, Mrs Černochová. But for those who don't want to hear it, I say one more time: we will support all missions. The only dispute, yes, we're in charge of the others, the Pobaltí, the time in which we have to vote. If you'll give us a pass and we'll vote on the other missions only after the government has gained confidence, I declare that the citizens' Democrats will be in favour. And now three procedural proposals for a possible procedure. I'm not gonna repeat the one that's embedded in the material, I'm gonna take that as basic. I propose that we vote in two blocks. For the first time in the first block there are missions to Afghanistan and the Baltics, which are the letters 1A, 1B, 1J, 1K, en bloc and about other missions en bloc also. The second variant, the subvariate, we propose that separate votes be voted on blocks, in the first block again Afghanistan 1, Afghanistan 2, Baltic 1, Baltic 2, the same letters, and on other missions separately. The third option-- so I'm going to say four options in the end. The third option is to vote on each point in point 1 which is proposed separately. The fourth option is the one that suits and which we think best fulfils two things at once: firstly, the fulfilment of our allied commitments and concern for the security of our country and our citizens; Secondly, for those missions for which we can afford a time delay, we will postpone the vote until the Government of the Czech Republic gains the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. We would only vote on the four missions that I have listed here twice, virtually. three times, and the other votes would be postponed until the Government of the Czech Republic gained confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for supporting any of these proposals. We prefer the last one, but we are ready, we are actively taking part in all the votes according to how the Chamber of Deputies as a whole will decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u95	Okay, thank you. Now, Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to introduce you to the position of the Mayor's Club and independent of this point. We consider it a crucial point, because we are sending our soldiers, our citizens, to the front line, where they take care of security and us at home. And it's also an important step where our allies, who are reciprocally providing us with protection, are joining us in this protection. And in a situation where our commitment to NATO, which we gave at the time of entry, and that we will be giving 2% of GDP in defence and security, is still in the middle and despite significant economic growth, and even sometimes the surplus budget has not improved and is still oscillating around 1%, so sending our troops to foreign missions is one of those moments that is very positively perceived by our allies, and our soldiers have a very good reputation abroad. Therefore, as mayors and independents, we will join in supporting this proposal, albeit this whole debate and the complexity that is going on here, how we are expanding it, cannot be overlooked, and it cannot be seen that this is the result of the government having no confidence that we have a criminally prosecuted prime minister, and he has no choice but to seek support for his actions with the Communists. And that's what's causing all the trouble that's going on here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u97	Now, Madam President of the Defence Committee Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm glad the mood has calmed down here. I don't want to cause any more emotions here. I want to say perfectly calmly what I think the Secretary of State should do as Secretary of Defense to the Defence Committee, and I want to ask her to do that. Now at 10.59 she paged a message on the Euro portal: "Tough reset. The defense canceled the chopper purchase preparations. What the Department of Defense has been working on under Martin Stropnický for three years now ends up in the trash. The selection of new helicopters has completely rebooted the resort." Madam Secretary's quote: "We start from scratch," confirms Karla Šlechtová, Secretary of Defense in resignation. This is explained by the fact that from the original pre-acquisition phase, which has recently been called by the Authority marketing market research, not a single helicopter evaluated has come out victorious." [[ANO members are starting to talk loudly to each other. One of them yells at the speaker: Get to the point!]] You're gonna finish the article. I would ask you, Mr Vice-President, not to be shouted at by your colleagues. I'm speaking to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u99	Yes. I understand, Madame. I'll ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u100	I am only saying this here because I do not want the Minister here to disrespect my work as chairman of the Defence Committee, when we have always tried to accommodate the Minister in the sense that she wanted some points to be discussed, she does not want to discuss the KVACR before she is in position for six months. We've complied with her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u101	Let's do it again. Madame, I'm going to interrupt you. I really am asking the House for peace so that we can finish this debate. So far, the last one is the President of the Defence Committee, and I think that its communication is also important for your decision-making. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u102	We've complied with her. It's really not about any of us wanting to cause any problems for the secretary. It's not like that. The Minister is making these problems for himself, and he's making them by giving her an opinion on the media, we'll read it as members of the Defence Committee, you'll read it as members of the ANO movement, and then you'll just raise your eyebrows and wonder why we didn't find out about it in the proper procedure on the Defence Committee, on the Sub-Committee on Acquisitions. Why do we learn this information from the media? So what's the problem? Is it a problem that the committee doesn't meet enough? If I summon him, Madam Secretary won't be there. I would really like to ask the Prime Minister, because I think that defending our country should be a priority for this government, no matter who it is in the coalition, to guarantee in some way that the communication between the committee and the Ministry of Defence will work the way it worked for Minister Stropnický, who went to committees, came to the committee yesterday, and even if we did not always have to agree on a lot of things, then the communication between the committee and the minister was normal. It also happened several times that we learned something from the media, the Minister apologized for it, it wasn't his fault, it was just that someone from some press conference or even from the Ministry of Defense gave information, it wasn't the Minister's fault, it wasn't the Minister's citations. Unfortunately, here it is proven that Madam Secretary, yes, all right, takes care of his media image, but it's not for the benefit of the matter. It is certainly not for the benefit of relations between the Defence Committee and the Minister. I wanted to say so much in conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u103	Thank you. Now, Madam Secretary of Defense is still in the debate. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the YES movement and all of us are very pleased to hear from the Chair of the Committee on Defence for the commendation of Mr Stropnický, the former Minister of Defence, because in the last four years we have heard only the same criticism. It's all criticism. And I think it is very important that the Chair of the Defence Committee, as well as the previous, has obviously changed her mind. I'm really happy for you. I wasn't on the committee once, I was abroad, and the second time, because yesterday there were 80 delegates from 34 states - chiefs, generals for military health services. I have no idea why the Chairman of the Defence Committee is mixing this up when we're dealing with missions. I'm talking about the 34 Defense Department employees, I'm talking about the 20,000 soldiers. General Opata and I have been preparing these missions, the entire mandate, for a very long time. We've decided whether we're going to put a very ad hoc mandate here, or we're going to really put a complex one. And at this point, someone will be reading, virtually. Madam Chairman of the Defence Committee, any article I don't know about? Well, if I may, Mr President, to the helicopters. They'll be entered in the summer. Madam President of the Defence Committee knows this very well, because he's testing me every time, every defence committee, what condition are acquisitions on both radars and helicopters. I repeat the same thing every time, the procurement documentation is being prepared. If there is an article in a magazine that has been read to us, which is clearly being monitored in some way by the Ministry of Defence very critically, towards the Ministry of Defence and myself, and uses the name and advisor of President Černochová as the greatest expert on my part, then we can actually have a conflict here. I would like to ask the honourable Chamber of Deputies here to return to this comprehensive mission mandate. It is an important material that we are presenting, although a government without confidence, but it is a mandate that I will convey next week at the NATO Defence Ministers meeting at the summit that precedes that summit in July 11th at the level of the presidents of the Republic. Dear Chamber of Deputies, I ask you to approve this mandate because it is very important for the level of the Army of the Czech Republic, for recruiting soldiers for the future to the Army of the Czech Republic and, of course, for our prestige, foreign policy and the fulfilment of our obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u105	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. The Foreign Minister also wants to make a statement. We are still in a debate that I will try to end as soon as there is no registration. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really won't be long anymore, but I really remembered the last few performances on one famous sentence by Vlasta Burian, who repeatedly said something to me. There's something I want to say, but I'm not gonna say it. I could be here one by one, a series of points conflicting or specifying. But please, I think the discussion was quite dense, it wasn't short. We've heard a lot of opinions here. Maybe we can move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u107	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. I don't have a written application. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary, no, not the rapporteur. We shall vote on the proposals tabled. We will proceed to a detailed debate. [[Objection from Mr Stanjura on the right.]] I take it that the proposal that was made in the general debate... I must open it, Mr President, for a detailed debate, if there is any other proposal for a procedure than you have said. I must take that from the Rules of Procedure. But since no one's checking in... [[Again, Mr Stanjura's objection.]] I will take your proposal on the procedure for voting, as has already been put forward in the debate. There is no distinction between general and detailed. But I've got to open up some detail in case somebody checks in and doesn't bring it up in the general one. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u108	Mr Vice-President, I have a question, I have no objection. But I don't think you're right, but I'm wrong. There is only one debate on this point. [[Some people in the room disagree.]] I think that's how it is. If I am wrong, please tell me where it is in the Rules of Procedure that when we discuss this, there is a detailed and general debate on a separate basis. I don't think so. It's not a feud. No one's checking in. That's just to clarify the future, so we don't argue in another case. No one has read another proposal, so there's no dispute about denying anyone the right to load another proposal for a procedure. I would just ask how I read the four proposals so we can vote first the fourth, then the first, then the second, then the third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u109	I take it, of course, that I have no support in the Rules of Procedure Act, only the customary right that we are opening up a detailed debate on these points, because there may be different proposals that are in the general debate, there may be a proposal for an interruption, a continuance, etc., and other matters that we have, or a continuance, and so on, whereas here in this detailed debate it can be clarified. It is according to the Rules of Procedure. And since no proposal has been made, there has been a proposal in the debate on how to vote on the various points that we will consider. [[12.00 hours]] I shall first read the apology of Mrs Golasowská from 13.30 to the end of the day. And we can get back to making decisions. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. We can therefore discuss the various proposals and the draft procedure is either a vote on the whole, as it has been put forward, as it is in the committee resolution material, and then there is the Stanjura proposal. And we'll be in your order, Mr. Chairman. This means voting for the first time, as the first block, Afghanistan, the Pobaltí on those individual points, as they are mentioned, and the other things would be voting for the second time. The second, separate vote of Afghanistan, the Baltics, and then of each point separately. Yes? Because that would be three steps. That's how I got it. I'm specifying it. And then about each point separately. Three, all about each point separately. That's what you said, Mr. Chairman. And the fourth option was just about Afghanistan, the Baltics, and the others wouldn't be voted on. Am I saying that right? No. So, please, one more time. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u110	You said 70 percent correctly, Mr President. Yes, I suggest we vote first on missions to Afghanistan, the Pobaltí in whole. [[President: As a whole.]] And we postponed the rest of the vote after gaining the confidence of the Czech Government. That was the first one. Second, to vote again on the missions as a whole and on the rest as a whole. The third was Afghanistan and the Pobaltí together and the others one at a time. And the fourth of all gradually a) to m). And that's actually just a way of voting. We'll vote on a matter of fact, depending on how we decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u111	Now we will decide for each variant. There are four of them, and the chairman of the ODS Club has made it clear. There's no need to repeat it again. The vote in favour number 1 is Afghanistan, the Pobaltí vote in one vote and not vote in favour of the rest. It's a 181 vote. I'm asking if... if I'd rather check you out, I'll ask you for a new registration so we can have a clear number of people present. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide in voting 181 on this proposal. I've started voting number 181 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 181, from 169 present for 32, compared with 92. The motion was not accepted. The second variant, i.e. Afghanistan, the Baltics, and then each one separately. It's gonna be the 182 vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 182, out of 170 for 40, against 94. Nor has this proposal been adopted. And now for each mission separately. I've started voting number 183 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 183, 170 for 51 Members present, against 96. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We have a fourth proposal from my colleague Stanjura, and that's just a mission from Afghanistan and the Baltics. Let's be clear. All of them individually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u112	Mr President said that we all know what they are voting about, and then he misjudged it. [[- No.]] Yes, but I didn't mean to interrupt the vote. So far, we are missing the last option to be second in the package of Afghanistan, the Baltics, and in the second vote all the others. We haven't voted on the four of them yet. All three of them have already passed the vote. I didn't want to delay the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u113	Yes, thank you. Thus, according to this clarification, we will have a fourth vote on the procedure. I've started voting number 184, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 184, registered 170 for the 51st Member, against 95. The motion was not accepted. So we're going to follow the original committee procedure that you have contained in the material. A resolution on the approval of the sending of the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the Czech Republic or the residence of the armed forces of other states in the Czech Republic, as well as the adoption of a resolution on the participation of the Czech Republic in the defence systems of the international organization, to which the Czech Republic is a member, requires the approval of an absolute majority of all Members. Requesting Kvora 101 setup. But before that, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u114	I don't know if you've noticed what the Vice-President said. If we'd accepted like this, we wouldn't have accepted anything. We cannot vote under committee resolutions when the committee has not adopted anything. That would just confirm that we have no position. So we must vote on the motion for a resolution, which is contained in the press 150, that is the right diction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u115	Okay. So I'm gonna ask for a press resolution of 150. I will ask the rapporteur to read it. The whole press, please. Or - I ask if you need the content of the resolution in the press 150...? You do, okay. I thought so, so that's why I'm suggesting. But of course, the President here advises me to try the press, not to pass. So, rapporteur, I ask for a motion for a resolution under the press 150/0.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u116	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members of the Council, fellow Members of the Council. Let me read the motion for a resolution that we should vote on. That sounds like: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. consents to: 1. acting forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence (a) in the mission of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty RESOLUTE SUPPORT in Afghanistan, in total up to 390 persons for the period from the date of approval by the Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2020, (b) to protect the Czech Republic's representative office in Kabul, Afghanistan, in total up to 20 persons, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020; (c) as part of the training and support of Iraqi defence and security forces in Iraq and at the headquarters of the coalition operation INHERENT RESOLVE in Kuwait and Qatar and/or in the future training mission of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Iraq in total up to 110 persons, for the period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2020, (d) in the European Union's EUTM training mission in Mali, Niger, Mauritania, Chad and Burkina Faso for a total of up to 120 people, for the period from the date of approval by the Czech Parliament until 31 December 2020, (e) in the United Nations mission MINUSMA in Mali for a total of up to 30 persons, for the period from the date of approval by the Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2020, (f) in the MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND OSCERVERS on the Sinai Peninsula for a total of up to 25 persons, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020, (g) in the United Nations mission of UNDOF on Golan Heights, for a total of up to 10 persons, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020, [[12.10 hours]] (h) in the European Union operation ALTHEA in Bosnia and Herzegovina for a total of up to 2 persons, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020, (i) in the operation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation JOINT ENTERPRISE under the KFOR forces in Kosovo for a total of up to 10 persons, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020, [[Kosovo Force]] (j) in the context of the enhanced presence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Poland in a total of up to 290 persons, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020, (k) for the performance of the tasks of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for the protection of the airspace of the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Estonia, in total up to 95 persons for the period from 1 July 2019 to 31 December 2019; (l) in the European Union operation NAVFOR MED SOPHIA in Italy, for a total of up to 5 persons, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020, (m) in the operational headquarters of the European Union Operation NAVFOR ATALANTA in the United Kingdom or Spain for a total of up to 3 persons, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020; 2. sending members of the Ministry of Defence Department to strengthen the command structures of NATO, the EU and the UN deployed in the operations of these organisations and to send members of the Ministry of Defence acting in NATO, EU and UN structures to operations under these organisations outside the territory of the Czech Republic in total up to 25 persons for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020; 3. the operation of a deployable module in NATO operations outside the territory of the Czech Republic for a total number of up to 56 persons, for a maximum period of six months per year between 1 January 2019 and 31 December 2020, [[DCM, Deployable Communication Module]] 4. providing money donations abroad for a total amount of up to 4 million. CZK annually to finance rapid impact projects within the scope of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2019 and 2020; II. Takes note of the separation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence (a) to NATO's rapid reaction forces, in total up to 1,200 persons for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020, [[NATO Response Force, NRF]] (b) to the European Union Battle Group, for a total of up to 600 persons for the period from 1 July 2019 to 31 December 2019 and for a total of up to 300 persons for the period from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2020; [[EU BG]] III. Asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2018, by 30 June 2019 at the latest, about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2019, by 30 June 2020 at the latest, and about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2020, by 30 June 2021 at the latest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u117	Thank you, rapporteur. We will decide in the vote number 185, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 185, present 170 for 140, compared to 29. The resolution has been approved. [[Let's hear it more or less across the hall.]] Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. I'm done with point 109.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-003-109.u118	Good afternoon. From today's meeting, from 12.15 to the end of the meeting, Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes for working reasons. And there is also an apology from Mrs Němcová's meeting today from 12.30 to the end of the day. At this point, I'm initiating a discussion of the point.
