ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 13th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'll ask you to sign up with your ID cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. Mr Birke will vote with card number 4, Mr Mašek will vote with card number 6. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence: Stanislav Blaha for health reasons, Pavla Golasowská for no reason, Jan Hrnčíř for no reason, Jakub Janda within 18 hours for work reasons, Miloslav Janulík until 17 hours for work reasons, Miroslav Kalousek within 15 hours for work reasons, Jiří Kobza within 16 hours for work reasons, Martin Kolovratník within 15 hours for work reasons, Patrik Nacher from 14.30 to 16.30 for work reasons, Petr Pávek due to foreign travel, Zdeněk Podal for reasons of employment, Ivo Pojezný for work reasons, Antonín Staněk for reasons of foreign travel, Pavel Staněk within 16 hours for work reasons, Karel Tureček for reasons of foreign travel, Kateřina Valachová for family reasons, Jana Vildumetzová for health reasons, Ivo Vondrák for work reasons. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Members of the government apologize Jiří Milek due to foreign travel, Martin Stropnickýý for health reasons, Ilja Šmíd from 15 hours for work reasons. There. I'm really going to ask you to take your seats, and I'm going to ask for some peace in the room. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposal that came from today's Gremium. We propose this amendment to the approved agenda of the 13th meeting. The block of contracts of second and first reading to be included today, that is, Tuesday 12 June, at 6 p.m., with point 53 of the approved programme, House Press 52, the Czech Republic - Kosovo Treaty on double taxation, second reading, to be placed at the end of this block. That's the only proposal from the Gremium. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And now I'll ask who's applying for the agenda. With priority rights for the moment... Mr Bartoš applied before the beginning of the meeting. He'll have the floor first. Then Mrs Adamová Pekarová, then President Faltýnek, then President Chvojka. And once again, I'm gonna ask for peace! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna propose a new point for the pirate party. I don't know if you've noticed the information that went through the press today, but the Czech Republic has long been under the thumbs of drawing EU subsidies especially in the field of agriculture. And so now we are also working with information where criticism goes not only to the former government, but to draw subsidies in the field of agriculture, which were intended for other companies, which were intended for small entrepreneurs in agriculture and the Czech Republic. At least according to information from the European Commission, there is a penalty of 7,5 billion. Crowns. So we also propose, as part of this new information, which appears not only in the press, that we include as the first item of tomorrow's House meeting, i.e. for the ninth hour, a point which we would call the Information of the Ministry of Agriculture on the impending fine of 7.5 billion. CZK due to errors in the distribution of agricultural subsidies. We believe that we should hear from the Ministry of Contemporary Affairs on this issue how it will proceed. The former Minister of Agriculture has already spoken in the media today. However, this falls to the present or respectively. The future government and we would like to hear from the Ministry how it will proceed to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u3	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Adamová Pekarová. For the sake of completeness, I add that he is acting under priority rights in the absence of President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor. Just a moment, just a moment. [[The President is ringing the bell to calm the room.]] Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include a new point. And it's essentially a similar point that the pirate party is proposing. Although I have already announced it at the meeting of Gremia, where there was no consensus, I will ask you to include an item called Information of the Minister of Agriculture to draw financial support, namely from the Rural Development Programme of the Czech Republic. As you have already noted, this is not just the penalty mentioned, which threatens the Czech Republic of 7.5 billion. CZK from the European Commission, but these are also the conclusions of the SAO which issued them in May - this report. Therefore, it is precisely in the context of the Rural Development Programme that it also concerns cooperation measures. They show that not only are the conditions and then the decision to allocate subsidies relatively transparent, but also that the aid that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for whom it is intended in particular, are heading from 70 percent to the other side of the large ones. That is why I am going to propose a resolution and allow you to get acquainted with it when you propose a point, so that you know what we want to discuss on this point. I think that this may not be a long point, no delay in our further negotiations, because it is a completely non-conflict resolution by which we ask the Minister for clarification and subsequently to submit to the Chamber of Deputies by the end of September of this year a complete list of beneficiaries of financial support from the Operational Programme Support for Rural Development, namely since 2014, with a division according to the size of enterprises into so-called. SME and the others. Thirdly, we would ask the Ministry of Agriculture to submit again to the Chamber of Deputies by the end of September of this year a list of measures that will lead to a transparent distribution of financial support intended primarily for small and medium-sized enterprises in agricultural production. And as the fourth point, we would agree, if you agree, of course, that we insist that the Ministry of Agriculture immediately ensure a transparent allocation of subsidy aid intended primarily for small and medium-sized farmers so as not to draw large agrifood complexes. Therefore, we could end this issue here by adopting this simple resolution and focus on it when we have this information at our disposal from the Ministry of Agriculture. So I don't think it's a conflict point. However, the information that appeared not only in the media, but also in the report of the Supreme Audit Office, is so serious that the House should deal with them that it should require clarification and correction, a proposal for a solution, and that we should have an interest in this matter to be able to express ourselves. I propose that we place this point first on today's meeting day or, if this proposal fails, as the first point tomorrow, on Wednesday. That means we have two options to place it. I have already mentioned the resolution to you in advance, so you know what we would possibly vote on. Of course, we can then vote on each item separately in the resolution if there is an interest here. However, I do not think that the Chamber of Deputies should leave this serious information unnoticed and address it. Thank you for your attention, at least to those who gave it to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u5	Thank you. I would ask you again - let us pay attention to what individual speakers are speaking here. Let me read the additional apologies. Mr Pavel Růžička apologizes within 15 hours due to delay, delay of the plane. Mr Richter apologizes for medical reasons until 14:30. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights. President Chvojka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Before I present my specific proposal, which I also announced at the meeting of Gremia this morning, I would like a brief comment on what was said here from the mouth of my colleague Adamová Pekarová and President Bartoš. Both of them were talking about the same thing. I am not sure if this will be on the agenda of this meeting, however - the Minister of Agriculture, who unfortunately does not sit here at the moment, should process this material that has been mentioned here for one simple reason. You're all repeating some kind of media message, media articles. And if there are any rules that Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Madam Vice-President, mentioned here when subsidies for small businesses are being drawn large, it is probably not okay. So we need this material to just be processed and we all look at how the rules are set under the Rural Development Programme, what is the allocation for small businesses, what are the conditions there, what is the allocation for medium companies, what are the conditions there and what percentage is exhausted within the allocation for small companies by small firms and large firms. But big companies, if it's an allocation for small companies and the conditions set for small companies, they probably can't ask. But now I'm just speculating, I don't know. Indeed, the Minister of Agriculture should answer these questions. And now for my proposal. I would like to ask the esteemed House to support solid inclusion as the first item on the agenda today after approval of the programme item 61. It is a treaty on stability and coordination, the so-called fiscal pact. This is House press 97. It is a point that is under discussion, or we would very much like it if we succeeded within 16 hours, when the school law is firmly included from the workshop of Václav Klaus Jr., to negotiate. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Furthermore, with priority rights, President Chvojka. Then with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. Don't worry, I won't want to place any new or special points. I would like to move within what is already approved in the agenda of this meeting. I would just like to ask that item 80, which means print number 54, the administrative order, be included as item 1 tomorrow at the point where we will decide and vote on third readings. I beg you for one simple reason. The petitioner, or the person who approved this bill, is the Pardubice Region's representative, and tomorrow the hetman of the Pardubice Region will arrive, who would appreciate it if this point had been firmly placed so that he would not have to wait, for example, all morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u9	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. Mr. Chairman Michálek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I would like to speak here in support of Mrs Pekarová's proposal to Adamová, the honourable colleague, on agricultural subsidies. I would also like that point to be included as soon as possible in particular in order to clarify what the truth is. You know, I'm quite intrigued that there is doubt about the transparency of agricultural subsidies in a situation where these subsidies are controlled many times. I'm encouraged when the subsidy rules are criticized here without any suggestion of any reasonable change. These rules are complicated, and every time the complexity of the subsidy rules is criticized, it is said - the European Union. And every time those rules are violated by the recipient of the subsidies or by the person who allocates the subsidy, there is a very quick and severe punishment. Not only the return of the subsidies back, but also the various sanctions, which are very sensitive both to the beneficiaries of the subsidies and to the person who caused the beneficiary to receive the subsidies unduly. To this point, yes, of course. But at the moment of the slightest violation of the grant rules, there is always someone in the Czech Republic who will, with forgiveness, give it to the European Commission, or the SAO, or anyone else. And then he sees the light of the world as recently from the SAO, which mixes pears with apples, and comes from it a subsidy system for farmers as something that in the Czech Republic is ugly, ugly, disgusting, unacceptable, badly made and so on. I submit that the request is that they be published by beneficiaries from year to year... Not now that this government has ruled, some have rightly said in demise, but since 2014. I would even say that even before that, it is still necessary to publish, because even at a time when the right-wing governments were ruling, there was a distribution of funds for farmers and food professionals under grant rules. This distribution was controlled and de facto, except for some small things, was never questioned. I would like to ask that this point be dealt with as soon as possible, to separate the grain from the chaff, while we are already with those farmers to make the truth clear, and that, for example, from this discussion, in addition to the request to be made public by the beneficiaries, the subsidy conditions for individual subsidies should also be published, and so that it is absolutely clear and clear and evident that in the Czech Republic it is finally necessary to stop playing small, medium and large, that farmers are one "kind" for which all of us who have the right to do so must be washed. They're our farmers, they're not strangers, they're the ones who bring food to our table, and it's worth it to support the small ones, the middle ones, and the big ones, and not to look for flies. Therefore, to include, as Mrs Adamová suggests, for today's day, the task is to go quickly, so that we have something to act on in September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Mr. President of the SPD Radim Fiala will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u12	I wanted to comment on President Faltýnek's proposal for a fiscal pact to be pushed forward. All of us here know that when the fiscal pact is pushed forward, the other points will not be negotiated. Today, virtually nothing will be negotiated, because the ODS will continue its speeches as it was at previous meetings of the Chamber of Deputies, and will want to make a very detailed statement on this. I therefore disagree with this proposal. And I do not agree with him for that reason, too, because if we go through this way and adjust the already approved agenda, we are not going to get to the nomination law today, which we are all looking forward to because we want to fight against political trades, and we also do not get to the Act on the salaries of constitutional officials, which we are all looking forward to, because the government has put forward a proposal to freeze the salaries of constitutional officials. And yet none of us wants it to be postponed, and in the end, God forbid, it was an accident that wages would increase. So the Pirates Club will vote this time against including the discussion of the fiscal pact on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u13	Thank you. President Fiala, then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad we're in agreement with the pirát against the fiscal pact. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to remove item 79. It is a government bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending some related laws - I will no longer read it. This is because this law has not yet been discussed in the Economic Committee and therefore cannot be discussed in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u15	Thank you. Dismissed from the meeting, then. Furthermore, with priority rights, President Faltýnek is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u16	I'm sorry, I don't want to delay. I would go back to the resolution proposed by Vice-President Adamová Pekarová. He asks the Ministry of Agriculture to submit - otherwise I found out that Minister Milek has apologized today, he is on Visegrad, so he is not here today, but he will be tomorrow, so I will tell him immediately - that the Minister of Agriculture should submit to the Chamber of Deputies by the end of September a complete list of beneficiaries of financial support from the Operational Programme Support for Rural Development from 2014 onwards, etc. I just got off the phone with the Director of the ZIF. It recommends all interested to look at the website where this information is all available, dear friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u17	Thank you. There seems to be no further prioritization. The proposal to amend the approved programme is addressed to Mrs Vostrá. Please, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u18	Yes, thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include point 111 of our programme, which is a proposal for a timetable for the discussion of the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2017 in the Chamber of Deputies and its bodies and a proposal for its commandments and commandments to committees, including relations with state funds, House document 623, for tomorrow, 13. 6, as the first item in the afternoon's meeting. The reason is that we have a state final account in the Chamber of Deputies, and I think it is in our interest and in the interests of our Republic that we should discuss it properly and on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u19	Thank you. Another application is Mr. Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u20	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr President. Let me make a proposal for a change to the programme, and I would like to place the information on subsidies from the Rural Development Programme firmly on 16.30 today, because some quite serious remarks have been made here, perhaps I would say, after the accusation. It's been a while since I was a minister. I'm not gonna hide here with the present minister who isn't behind that time. I would like to be able to explain these things regardless of the fact that the Minister is on Visegrad today. I think I have enough information and background to make that information clear. I would like to point out, through Mr President, and point Mrs Adamová Pekarová to my Facebook profile from last week, where, for example, I clearly comment on what she was talking about, how and where the questions from the Rural Development Programme were directed in the context of food aid. There were two submeasures. One sub-measure concerned businesses where only small and medium-sized enterprises in the food sector could apply. Within this sub-measure, all applications that met administrative requirements in those three years of the new programming period, all of these applications were made possible by increasing the allocation for this measure by their administration and subsequent payment, so that all who were able to fulfil and had a proper formality and minimum score. Then there was the second sub-measure that involved innovation, or the cooperation that you are talking about here, and this allocation was intended for small, medium-sized, but also large enterprises. Of course, businesses and large ones have succeeded here, which have been mentioned in the media for example, but there are also a number of small and medium-sized enterprises that have also succeeded in this innovation programme and are drawing funding. The total allocation of these two submeasures...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u21	I beg you to discuss the peace of mind! I think it's okay. I'll give you some time, if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u22	The total allocation of these two measures was 5.2 billion. CZK, small and medium-sized enterprises drew 3.17 billion. Crowns. So summarized, underlined, most of these funds went to small ones, and I stress again, this sub-measure, which was intended for them, satisfied all those who fulfilled the requirements and who asked. Furthermore, I would point out that in the context of investment measures for farmers, for primary production, compared to the previous programming period, where the small farms were paid 235 miles. We paid over 1 billion crowns in three years compared to the seven. Crowns. And there were two rounds in a row where all the applicants from small farms with an area of up to 150 hectares were satisfied. The success of the large applicants was less than 50 per cent and small and medium-sized applicants have always benefited from these measures. That's how it was set during my operation. Furthermore, I would add that we have also significantly increased the activity of the Support and Guarantee Fund for peasant and forestry, or the abbreviation PGRLF, where, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises could benefit from increased support in the purchase of land and in the implementation of their investment measures. I am prepared to declare that the support for small and medium-sized farmers and food professionals in my work in the new programming period of the last three years has been significantly higher than the support in the previous seven years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u23	Thank you. President Bartoš with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I just wanted to ask that this part where we talk about the programme, about changing the agenda of the meeting, we simply did not clean up any media already, and the conflict that arises between the previous government, virtually. the previous Minister of Agriculture, and the situation now arises, where there may be a fine of 7.5 billion here. Crowns. Let's talk about it - we want to talk about it on the agenda, do we want to put this item on the agenda of the meeting? I fully agree that a number of this information is on the Internet. I don't think any aggregated message, numbers and company names is what's gonna help us figure this out. The European Commission also criticises the lack of control of drawdown. This means that the companies could formally meet the conditions for obtaining the subsidy, but maybe they were not used. In that regard, the company was not a majority agricultural company. So let's not think about who what, which minister in the previous government, how much money there was, but let's talk about whether or not it's desirable to include this item in the meeting. We believe it is. Even now, we do not want to propose a resolution. This should come from the performance of the current minister, who here tomorrow, where we propose to include that point, will be. Let us now really talk about the agenda of the meeting, not about the content of the individual items that we think should be included in the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-000-000.u25	Thank you. With the replacement card number 11, Mr Gazdík will vote. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in changing the agenda. If this is not the case, we will deal with individual proposals by voting. I merely inform that during the debate, I received a written objection to the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. This concerns both President Bartoš's proposal and Vice-President Pekarová's proposal and Mr Jurečka's proposal. That means, I did the math, I got 56 signatures, which, of course, is well above 20. Therefore, we cannot vote on these inclusions. [[14.30 hours]] We will vote first on the proposal from the Gremium, i.e. on the inclusion of the block of contracts, with the fact that we would place double taxation with the Republic of Kosovo at the end of this block. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is the grémia for this proposal. Who's against it? The vote is serial number 187. The application is 170, for 162, this proposal has been accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on President Faltýnek's proposal, because, as I said, the proposals previously cannot be voted on, and this is the first item in paragraph 61 today, the press 97, the so-called fiscal pact. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In voting order number 188 registered 171, for 104, against 51. This proposal was adopted. Furthermore, we will vote on the proposal by President Chvojka, who proposed paragraph 80, print 54, in third readings, for this item to be the first in the third reading block tomorrow, Wednesday. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote order number 189 registered 172, for 130, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Furthermore, we will vote on the proposal by President Fiala, which proposes paragraph 79, which is an amendment to Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on roads, and so on, disable from the agenda, on the ground that it has not yet been discussed by the committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote order number 190 registered 173, for 173, against no one. This proposal was adopted unanimously. We will also vote on Mrs Vostrá's proposal, which proposes paragraph 111, print 623, the State Final Account for 2017, to discuss firmly 13. 6., that's tomorrow, first point. Am I saying that right? [[Voices from the O.R.]] At 2:30. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote serial number 191 registered 173, for 170, against no one. This proposal was adopted. The last proposal, Mr Jurečka, has been brought in, and we cannot vote on it. We've dealt with all the proposed changes to today's meeting. We'll continue with the approved show. As we voted a moment ago, we will be the first to discuss the point.
