ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-15-ps2017-022-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 22nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. Today's meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was sent to you on Thursday 8 November of this year. I'm asking you now to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who requested to issue a replacement card. At this point, I have information that President Bartoš will vote with replacement card number 7. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Jaroslav Dvořák and a Member of František Kopřiva to the verifier of this meeting. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see such a suggestion. So I repeat, we will now vote on the fact that the meeting verifiers will be members of Members Jaroslav Dvořák and František Kopřiva. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 1 registered 109 Members, for 102, against no one. I note that we have appointed Mr Jaroslav Dvořák and Mr František Kopřiva as verifiers of the 22nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to inform you that by the beginning of the meeting they asked for apologies for their participation in the meetings of these Members for Tomáš of foreign travel, Věra Adámková until 9.40 for reasons of health, Hana Aulická Jírovcová for reasons of work, Martin Baxa for reasons of work, Jiří Běhounek for reasons of employment, Ondřej Benešík for Roman of employment, Jan Birke for reasons of employment, Milan Brázdil until 13.30 for Pastuchová of employment, Robert Grebeníček Radek králíček of work, Josef Hájek for reasons of employment, from 11.30 to 14 hours for Nacher of employment, Dolínek Kubík for reasons of employment, Jan Farhan for Ladislav of employment, from 12 to 19 hours for reasons of employment, Dominik Feri for reasons of employment, Miroslav Grebeníček for reasons of employment, for Jana of work, from 19.00 for reasons of work, from Ilona Mauritzová for Radek of Koten, from 11.30 to 14 hours for reasons of foreign travel, Milan Hnilička for reasons of work, for reasons of employment, Tereza Hyťhová for reasons of reasons of reasons of Markéta of Petr of Venhoda of Onderka of Ondřej of Veselý of Pekarová of Adamová of reasons of personal use, Milan Chova for Ivo of Pojezný Kubíček Petr of reasons of Vrána of Karel of František of Vymazal of Jan of zahradník of employment, Chovanec. In the meantime, Mr Jiří Mašek's apology came from today's meeting at 12 o'clock for work reasons. Further apologize to members of the government: Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Jan Kněžínek for work reasons, Jana Maláčová due to foreign travel, Lubomír Metnar due to foreign travel, Marta Nováková for work reasons, Tomáš Petříček for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Dan Ťok from 9.30 for work reasons and Miroslav Toman for work reasons. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 22nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act, the Chamber of Deputies shall decide only on the agenda set out in the request. No change or addition to the programme can be approved. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. [[Noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind, because we will now proceed to the vote on the proposed agenda for the meeting. I'm opening the vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number two, 129 Members signed in for 110, there was no one against it. The motion has been approved. It means we've approved the agenda of the meeting as it was designed. Now I ask once again for peace, because we have another vote to take. It's not exactly the usual situation, so let's all know what's going on here. Although we have approved the agenda for the meeting, it will now be necessary to vote in accordance with § 54 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the inclusion of this draft law on a different date of procedure and, at the same time, it is necessary to put to the vote pursuant to Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure on the allocation of other hours for its consideration. Simply put, we must approve that at this meeting today we will be dealing with a law which is at third reading, for which the Rules of Procedure set other hours. Is it clear what we are going to vote on at this point? Is that clear? There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. [[He's waiting a while.]] And we are in a situation where I can begin the vote. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 3, 130 Members registered, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. And now we will proceed to the only item on the agenda of today's meeting, which is
