ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u1	29. Members of Martin Kolovratník, Dan Ťok, Patrik Nacher, Milan Feranc, Klára Dostálová, Roman Onderka, Jaroslav Foldyna, Květa Matušovská, Leo Luzar, Zdeněk Ondráček, Radim Fiala, Helena Langšádlová, Ondřej Polanský, Věra Kovářová, Lukáš Černohorský, Zbyněk Stanjura and Jiří Mihola on the issue of Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure and Electronic Communications Infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 76/ - First reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 76/1. I ask that the press put forward by the representatives of the appellants, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u2	Thank you so much for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I wish you good afternoon. Today I am in the second position, not the President of the Election Commission, but as a representative of the petitioners of this House press, the amendment to Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure, legislation concerning transport and investment construction. At the outset, I would like to say a big thank you, with great humility, because it is a novel that we have called, I will use the nice term of colleagues from the Pirates Club, which we called "Hour with a marker," a patch of the biggest problems we have in the infrastructure, which we know about and which identify individual investors, and already in December we started working on the preparation of this fast novel. What I want to thank and appreciate very much is the fact that we have been able to arrange, I dare say, a unique agreement between all the MPs in the Chamber of Deputies. And I appreciate it very much, because when I see, from the position of President of the Election Commission alone, how complicated the political situation is, how complicated relations are between us, I appreciate all the more that, after individual discussions and those working groups that Minister Dan Ťok called together with the various clubs in December before Christmas, and then we met twice in January, that we finally managed to negotiate between the petitioners. It is not just me and my colleagues from the ANO movement, but there are representatives of social democracy, colleagues from the KSČM, President Radim Fiala for the SPD, colleagues of the pirát, after one representative from the TOP 09, STAN, ODS and KDU-ČSL. And for that, I want to thank my colleagues so much for letting me and us trust in this business together. So much for an introduction. How it came to be. How the novel came about. We also agreed that we do not have ambition here in the House to discuss it in the so-called House. 90, in an accelerated reading, but that we want to work off amendments during March and have a professional discussion on how extensive the amendment should be and how deeply it should intervene. In a nutshell, we are amending the existing law, which we already have today - we already had it twice in the previous parliamentary term - which is already being dealt with primarily by the so-called. property law preparation of line constructions, preparation of line constructions, whether it be land purchases, material burdens and so on. Who cares about this issue, for example, often referred to by the so-called media. eight times the purchase price is the subject of this law. It captures not only transport, but also energy infrastructure and water infrastructure. At this point, the skeleton of the proposal that we have prepared, our group of petitioners together with the legislation of the Ministry of Transport, in which it is a little unusual, at the moment the construction is such that, first of all, we introduce a list, I would call it special strategic constructions of the state, whether it is a motorway network or a railway network, in addition to conventional lines and high-speed lines. And just for these special strategic buildings we are introducing, it will be discussed most, so-called. the institution of prior possession, i.e. the possibility of the investor entering the land in exceptional circumstances, if the construction already has a building permit and a zoning decision, to enter the land before the property settlement is completed. And also for these special buildings, we are introducing new special offices for those territories of decision making. So we're uniting the practice of placing buildings. At this point, we're thinking it should be in regional cities. [[13.20 hours]] There are then several other improvements that relate not only to the special constructions, but to all of them. Illustratively - the introduction of a duty to endure exploratory and preparatory work, the obligation for network managers to carry out transfers within 12 months, we increase payments for burdens in kind, we simplify the service of documents, we introduce so-called. positive fiction with the public authorities concerned, that is, when the office, officials do not do and it takes them, so we will not wait and until some time limit, unless they express themselves, we will assume that their position is in agreement. That's the basic structure. What I want to say and what is important is that we do not yet have a final agreement on how precisely the individual points and, above all, the most sensitive ones will be formulated. So it's going to be quite complicated, but I believe that without emotions, a substantive debate about what the list of special buildings is supposed to look like, whether it's wider or smaller, narrower, if we just try it on the most necessary, and only if we succeed then we'll continue with some further steps. We will certainly discuss the exact formulation of the preliminary holding, so that we also minimise the risk of constitutional complaints, possible invading the Constitutional Court, but to make sure that here from the House we equip the Senate with a proposal that is constitutionally conformal, and we know that the Senate will not return this further discussion to the House. And so will the Constitutional Court, if necessary, not to break the structure. So we're going to consider this very carefully and adjust it. This brings me to the last one, too, in my opening words. We have already agreed on the working group, which depends approximately on the Economic Committee and the Transport Sub-Committee. Now, after the first reading, we're gonna have some more business meetings where we're gonna be looking for the maximum possible match. The dates are that we want to meet next week on Thursday, March 8, informally, only on business, i.e. without a committee meeting or subcommittee. Then, by 21 March, we would like to conclude our ideas and proposals, to be heard by the Ministry of Transport and the final vote of the Guarantee Economic Committee on this so-called. the Committee's amendment should take place on 28 March. If we, colleagues, manage to maintain this agreement, then it would be possible in April, at the April meeting, to shorten the deadline between second and third reading only to seven days and actually to complete the amendment within two weeks. Here I also want to ask you publicly in plenary through the microphone, if any of you, there are 200 Members here, when we can, of course, give our proposal, we have an idea or you will get some incentive, so I want to ask you if this is possible, and it is a really humble request from me that you do not have an ambition for those individual amendments, but that you deliver them to us on 21 March, ideally through colleagues in your clubs, who are among those plaintiffs, so that we can work on this joint proposal so that we can really be united. So many opening words and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u3	I thank the representatives of the plaintiffs, Mr Martin Kolovratník, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u4	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I will try to follow up on Mr Kolovratník's representatives here in what he said. I'm not signed as a plaintiff just because I was on a business trip and I didn't make it. Otherwise, I am also the one who sees this as a positive step. Perhaps I would have gone into the history of that past period because the plaintiff mentioned it here. It must be said that when the first four hundred and sixty-sixth was opened, the amendment, which was more or less coming from the Ministry of Transport but was submitted by Members, tried to address the issue of the preliminary holding even then, however, it bothered us - and I think it will be the subject of further discussions - that the proposal was too broad. It must be noted that this bill interferes with property rights, and I think that is the problem with which we have to compare ourselves. It is a problem that will certainly be judged by the Constitutional Court, and I do not want to be the one to say in advance that it will be, but I think that many of the owners concerned will, of course, try. And the problem of the broad notion that it should be all TEN-T networks, these are networks that are actually European roads, European railways, so to us, representatives of the Civil Democratic Party, the network seemed very wide. We're building a landlord here, we should honor property rights. And on the other hand, we have the interest of the state, the interest of the general public, of building linear structures here, and it shows after all these years of entering the democratic period that this is not a simple matter at all. We're in a state today where we have money to buy, build, and we don't actually have prep management. That means we don't have a building permit. I have to say, yes, it's true that we've met, we've met, we've met, but the idea that it's gonna be emotionless, so I don't share here. Emotions come at the moment when we look at the table that is annexed to the draft of this law. And it'll be legitimate, we'll have to argue about it. We think that the number of projects should be minimal, because the more of them, the greater the chance of getting into trouble with the representatives, with the judges of the Constitutional Court. The way I see it, it's very much said I'd have a shaky thing to do, and it needs to be treated very sensitively. I understand that bypasses, subway, that we all want to deal with everything in this form, but I repeat again, we are the state of owners, or at least we are trying to behave, and we should respect property rights, and we should always judge this very carefully and carefully. So I have to say that it didn't work out back then, we got in a little bit of a fight with the Minister of Transport when I said it couldn't be done like that, and certainly not by an amendment, and that the network is too wide. Now we have a proposal that the group was preparing, and we have a skeleton that you have in front of you. I have to say, I think we're building the path right, because in the end, let's look at the surrounding states of Europe. No one doubts that the Federal Republic of Germany is a state of ownership and that it is a democratic state. They've had it a long time ago. But I will not go to a powerful neighbor, just look into neighboring Poland or neighboring Slovakia, where they decided to take this step before us and use it with success. On the other hand, I have to say that this is one part of the problems that we will be dealing with on these lines. It's not gonna solve everything, we're just gonna have to go through all those lawsuits. I've already said that the construction law in this case has many pitfalls, activities of various activists - I don't want to name them here to happen to forget anyone, because I'd like to name them who defends more interests than citizens of the Czech Republic. So they have good lawyers, they have good legal services and they use every mistake more or less to stop the construction. So we have a lot of work to do here. However, I must say that this is the first step and it is a test of how we are able to cope with this problem at this stage. Otherwise, as far as the accompanying table goes, I'm gonna tell you how it's gonna end up, and I want to warn you a little bit about it, and I want us to keep a cool head, because it's gonna be so that eventually it might end up with a vote on the individual constructions that we're gonna put in the annex table on that first stage. And just the construction, apart from the main constructions of course, which are clear, which we agree on, which are already listed in this proposal by the way, so every other construction will be judged mostly by the majority in the House. Of course, it must also be remembered that this bill will go to the Senate and that this bill will then be signed by the President. What is important is to realize that it will certainly, certainly, have to undergo a test by fire, as it is said, that this bill, or this law will certainly be judged by the Constitutional Court, because those interests of the secondary - not all want to build those motorways, expressways or railways. The interest of these people will simply be expressed in this way. [[13.30 hours]] So from my intelligence report everything, I will, of course, comment on the debate that has been held. I think it would be good to release this bill to further reading and with the guarantee committee, the Economic Committee of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Ivan Adamc. And now I am opening a general debate. And here's my application, Mrs... So you have priority rights, so you want to go first? So Mr President of the ODS, Mr Stanjura, first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u6	Thank you for the floor. I'm also signed under the proposal, and I'm also saying that even when I signed it, I told Martin Kolovratník that I had a problem with the attachment to the law. However, we wanted to show good faith. From the opposition we are ready to act rationally and rationally argue on good solutions for the Czech Republic. My previous speaker, rapporteur Ivan Adamec, said that this was a restriction on ownership. If I simplify it a little bit, we call it a preliminary holding. It's also a little confusing. We want to build on land that is not ours if I speak for the Czech Republic and for the state. This is a principle that denies the inviolability of private property. At the same time, as citizens' democrats, we say that we can imagine that in justified cases the public interest exceeds the individual interest. That is why we have also taken part in the negotiations and that is why we have taken part in the negotiations. But if we look at the garnish, it's too wide. If the principle that public interest takes precedence - and we think that it is right that public interest is taxatively listed in the law. We are elected in elections and public interest when it is determined directly in the law, so it is without discussion whether it is or is not a building in the public interest. I know that many would like to have more and more buildings there. If it goes to state, why isn't it for regional or urban investment? But for us, it would be very unbalanced for the benefit of private property. For me, it would be ideal if the annex contained only two buildings, which I consider to be the most key in the Czech Republic, and this is D 35, the second connection between Moravian and Czech regions, and the road circuit around Prague, which serves the whole Republic, not only Prague, as it is often misunderstood that it is an event for Prague. It is an event for all who eventually travel abroad and so on. We're ready to compromise. It is clear to me that this minimalist version has no chance of gaining majority support in the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate. I'm going to make practical reservations today about some of the proposed constructions that are there. Conventional runways. No one can convince me that these extraordinary instruments are to be used for conventional railway lines, because they already exist today, they stand and state own land, or the vast majority. And if not, it's a construction on foreign lands and it's already settled in some way. High-speed lines may be there, but it doesn't make any sense. We don't know the route, we don't know where it's going. It's the music of the future. There's no need to put it in that law in 2018. I also believe that this law, if approved by the House and the Senate, will be subjected to a constitutional test. It will not be us who make a motion to the Constitutional Court, but I suppose that is possible. And if that had happened, I would have thought it right. If we have the principle of inviolability of private ownership and, on the other hand, public interest, the proportionality should be assessed by the Constitutional Court and not by us, Members and Senators. Therefore, and Ivan Adamec has already said this, we call for some restraint to actually indirectly amend the construction law in a fundamental way that would apply to all buildings. So our first questions that we want to discuss in detail on the committee, not here today at first reading: Why are there conventional rail lines, we consider this unnecessary, and why are there high-speed lines? It's not unnecessary there, but it's premature, because it's definitely going to be created in a new corridor, and I think there's going to be tens of thousands of owners there. If we imagine the length of the connection, it's estimated to be tens of thousands of owners, and it's going to be extremely complicated. [[Unintelligible]] premature, because if such a law passes a constitutional test, it can definitely be amended and completed. I even think that if this were to be amended once in a parliamentary term, as they do in neighboring Germany, for example, that they have it for five years, they call it a need plan, it's nothing to do with it. Two. If you look at the highways, we recommend that you choose only those where you can really try it in practice within two or three years. That's actually a complete list of highways, we don't have D9, do we? Otherwise, there would be D 9 if we had D 0, D 1, D 2, D 3, but it doesn't exist. But I'm totally serious. Let's talk about narrowing it down. I would like the Economic Committee to address the Road and Motorway Directorate before the next meeting and ask where it thinks on which constructions this principle could be tried in the next two years. Let's not be a theory that in eight years we'll try something on - I don't know - D 52, I apologize to my colleagues from South Moravia. And then there's the first-class roads. If we leave a first-class road, mostly, there can't be two of them. I have to ask, if there's an I/35, I/49, nothing against why there's no I/11 Extended Rudná, I/11 towards Slovakia? I think you'd find some important I. class road in every county for that particular county that might have the same rules as the others. If that list, the attachment stays unchanged, I'm telling our club that we're going to have a big problem supporting the law at the end of the third reading. At the same time, since this was our proposal, we will support the reduction of the deadline to 30 days between the first and second readings, so that we can make any amendments that may concern us, in particular, the annex to this law, so that there is sufficient time to discuss it and make rational arguments for and against it. We want to leave 60 days. Okay, I say, if there's a proposition for 30, I agree with that for our club, if we leave 60 days, no problem. But let's say, let's repeat what the rapporteur said. If we approve, we'll be able to speed up the construction process, the preparatory procedure, at the very end of the preparatory procedure. We're gonna speed things up, but that's not gonna change. There will be no change in repeated public access to the proceedings, which we consider crucial. Our long-term programming point in this area is that the public enters once. Let's have fun at what level. Once, including the possibility of judicial review, but not repeatedly in the principles of territorial development, territorial plan, EIA, territorial proceedings, building proceedings. Another problem, however, which we ourselves produce as a state, without pointing fingers at evidence, is the views of the public authorities concerned. I wanted to do this in this novel, it wasn't for the will, I don't know why. It takes an incredibly long time for the public authority concerned to comment. We're proposing a principle, and we're ready to debate it, 60 days and enough. If he doesn't express himself within 60 days, he agrees. If he has objections, 60 days must suffice. Then we think that the opinions of the public authorities concerned are to be for an indefinite period, not to question them back and constantly return to it. It's the thing we have in our own hands again, and we can change that. These two measures would accelerate the preparatory procedure much more and shorten much more than this law. It's not against the law, we'll support it, but we have to tell each other that. Then there are other practical things, I'd say smaller. But we have two options. Either we wait for a comprehensive amendment or for a new building bill, that's how I see it for the next term. This is a rather politically safe way to go, to miss, to debate, not that it would not be necessary, but to constantly postpone, because if you take someone's rights, and we propose yes, if you have the opportunity to go into the proceedings again, and you make it an entry into the proceedings once, that is a restriction on existing rights. And it's a lot harder to get the rights out than when the rights are added. This is a general principle which will certainly apply to possible changes to the construction law. [[13.40 hours]] We may still be able to make use of this because this law is not only about transport infrastructure, and we are likely to propose some minor amendments concerning other areas of this law or other types of infrastructure, but not to extend preliminary holdings to other areas, so that we understand each other. They turned to us from the ICT Union, from energy, and I think you too. We refuse to apply the principle of prior possession in these sectors, but at the same time there are some rational proposals that could help companies that operate and create other than transport infrastructure in this administration and in the preparation of constructions. However, I would like to make it clear in advance that the adoption or non-acceptance of these amendments will not change anything about our overall approach to the law. We will put this to discussion, give the Chamber of Deputies the opportunity to vote on it, and either we agree on it or we don't. We do not want to threaten and make it subject to the adoption of this text. So let's conclude. The citizens' Democrats will propose a narrowing of the annex to the law, we are ready to debate. We think that this is also good due to the supposed test of constitutionality, or to the practical application of this law, because we would like to try it out, whether it will work at all and whether it will be in accordance with the Constitution at all. We think so. Otherwise, we would not support this bill. But it's not us who are arbiters of what constitutional is or isn't. I look forward to the debate. And I will repeat with the plaintiff that it is really valuable that we agreed on this proposal by representatives of all the clubs. However, I will not forgive myself as one of the translators also a small poke. I don't think some of the signatures were involved in the proposal for a second. But that's a matter for a different debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u7	Well, thank you, and I have a point of fact here, Mr. Jakub Michálek. And now I want to ask the plaintiff Martin Kolovratník here. You want factual or general? Because in fact, you would prefer Mr. Michálek, and you will be general in line. [[Member of the Collo-Return: into a general debate.]] In general. We have one in fact here, so Mr. Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u8	I would like to thank my colleagues who participated in the development of this material, which was created across the spectrum. Of course, we also support the material, and we also want the construction to accelerate. Of course, we can discuss what kind of procedural guarantees there to avoid interfering with the rights of owners and not endangering private ownership. And I wanted to say one more thing. Since I have been elected in the capital city of Prague and the capital of Prague is quite a problem with a very specific construction, with the construction of subway D, I would like to ask you to support this particular railway within this material, which is a technical name for the construction of the subway, also included, because without it the Pražan, including us Members, will be waiting for this quality transport I would say another twenty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u9	Well, thank you, honourable Member. And now I have another point of fact, Mr Birke, and then Minister Ťok, with priority right, wanted to speak in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor, I will be very brief. I have a short remark. I would like to ask my colleague Michálek through you, Mr President, please leave this debate to the economic committee, the team, because it will be full of emotions that Mr Adamec here has been talking about, because it will be crucial, the list. I think what is important is that we have all agreed on this principle across political parties, including social democracy. But I just want to say, let's leave the debate because it's a subway in your case, that's in other cases x, x things. And I think that this debate does not belong in plenary, it belongs in the working team and only then in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. That's how it's understood. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u11	So, thank you, Mr Birke, and now with priority for the general debate, Minister Ťok. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond very briefly as one of the proponents to what Mr Stanjura said here, through Mr President. I agree with that, and I very much like that we would speed things up by introducing the fiction of consent, even in 30 or even in those 60 days. There's only one problem we can't deal with completely, and maybe if we find a method for it, that would be good. The problem is, if there's the approval of fiction and somebody attacks it in court, which, unfortunately, they still can, then most of the time, the court declares it unexplorable and we're back to square one. So far, we've been trying to avoid this circuit. If we can find a reasonable position on this, or we can solve it, then I will be the one who will be very supportive of the approval of fiction being there. The restrictions of the public, I agree with that as well. But here we are already moving more than in the area of building law in the field of ecology, because it is the Constitutional Court, the fact that we have done this restriction in the construction law, so it dropped it with reference to the law on the protection of landscape and nature, where the public entry is unlimited, and the question is whether we will get to it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u13	So, thank you to the Minister, and now I have two factual points and three applications for the general debate. We will begin with the facts: Mr Roman Onderka. Please make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I am only through Mr President on Mr Stanjura. It is the list of buildings that exists in this amendment that is the ticket to find consensus within the Chamber of Deputies to find consensus within the Senate Upper House. Here we need to realize that if the list is with one, two, three constructions, the way it went down here, and of course at that point, we're going to be in a position that in not five, but two years, that means in this parliamentary term, we're going to have another list again and we're going to be dealing with it. And I'll tell you why. Because I've seen the comparison of the R52 construction, which means that we have to make Brno - Vienna, where it fell that this may not be the most important structure, as Mr Stanjura perceives. But it needs to be realized that this construction is under, for example, the gesture of several governments that made a promise with the Austrian government at the level of prime ministers, at the level of the Presidents, we are talking about the transit of Austria - the Czech Republic, and who you will go to Vienna, so you will find that the Austrian side is ten kilometers from our borders, and we are still at Pohořelice. And that is certainly how every one of us who is involved in transport is going to go to the constructions that each of you knows best, in that region, in that region. This means that I see the enlarged list of buildings in the law as a condition of consensus of the political spectrum in the Chamber of Deputies. And if the Constitutional Court drops it from one day to the next with respect to three buildings or ten, from this point of view, I don't give a damn. And I hope that it will not, and that we will join states such as Germany in Europe, and we will be a modern country where public interest will prevail from this point of view. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u15	Well, thank you and another factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u16	Two notes. First of all, Mr. Onderka. I really did, and I told you, I picked it out at random, my eyesight fell off. It wasn't about the concrete construction. The problem with the constitutionality test is different. It's either priorities, or it's a general principle. And as it is proposed, it is basically a general principle. I'm convinced of that. It's a motorway network, and I think the interpretation that it's a general principle is correct. Whereas I think it'll be easier to test this constitutionality if it's listed really key structures. If I say I have 30 priorities, no one's mad at me, I have no priority. I just don't want to mess up any electoral regions. And a second comment on Minister Took's speech on the fiction. I saw it more as a whip on the government, which we have in our hands, or government and executives, any government, to force the authorities concerned to issue it within 60 days. Not that they're comfortable, they don't answer anything, and there's a fiction of consent. To increase pressure, and it's in the hands of an executive. That's how it was understood. It should not be understood that the authorities will not express themselves, and therefore the fiction of consent is. So they know they don't have a year, and then the minister, the head of the central government, can ask: why is it taking so long, what's the problem, that you're not in time to issue an opinion on the key construction within 60 days? That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. On another point of fact, I have Mr Ivan Adamec. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to say one thing to be said here. The garnish isn't forever. It's going to be modified. It is reasonable to really test it on a smaller number of buildings. But on the other hand, it is also necessary to say what is real in the next two or three years that could be realized. We'll have the list, we'll put it on the Economic Committee, and then we'll have a specific conversation. We all have our priorities in the regions, I understand that. But it really doesn't work that way. Then we'll get into each other in a moment, in the sense that the list will be on two pages of A4, maybe on three, and we'll just charge the opponents of this solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u19	Thank you. I have another factual point here. Mr. Roman Onderka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u20	To the ODS colleagues through the President. I don't think we need to learn about individual transport constructions, that we all know them very well, at least those who have been doing this for more than ten years and more. When I was talking about a specific construction of R 52, I want to stress that this is a construction that starts with a bypass in Mikulov and is already beginning to build. So that's one of those that can be tested. So I know what I'm talking about, partner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u21	Thank you. I have another point of fact here - Mr. Mr. Kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u22	I've decided on the factual one. Colleagues, colleagues, please let us make it tonight within 14 hours so that we can take one step at a time, and we can continue to work. I promise we'll really work this out, either on our working group or on the Economic Committee. We've already sent a message to Director Kroupa about these constructions within two to three years. We'll have that overview at our disposal next week. I, for my part, as a petitioner, or as a representative of the petitioners, advise that I will also lead to moderation. My way, my philosophy is to make this list very reasonable, very brief. As Mr Stanjura said, we should simply try it on the most strategic ones. And if we're successful, let's think about the list as being not eternal. We can meet here in six months, a year in winter and reopen it and look again when we see that we don't have a problem with the Constitution, that it works in practice, that the law has a purpose and construction has accelerated. So much for my opinion. In a week, Thursday at 5:00 p.m., the first group meeting. We're gonna have a list of the buildings, and now we're gonna have too much, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u23	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the general debate, I will follow up on Mr Kolovratník. I have no information that there should be negotiations after 14 o'clock, but if it is a law that is submitted after a certain general consensus across the political spectrum, and so if there is no substantial disagreement, I can allow this to be negotiated. However, the question is whether the management of MPs has such an agreement or whether it will be presented here in some way. I consulted with the organizational department. I'm just pointing it out. We still have time. If there's a will, we can, if not, I'll end the meeting. I'm just asking for information. I have a point of fact here. So, Mr. MP Ivan Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u24	I'd like to respond to my colleague Kolovratník. The work hasty little to do. Sometimes we say not paid enough. I beg you, let everyone testify. We are a parliament, let us not limit the debate. If it's today or next week, in terms of the position that's here, we're years late, nothing's gonna happen. But let's not do this by feeling that he couldn't comment on it. That's the worst case. If we're gonna be here this Friday afternoon and then go through traffic jams at home, if that's what you decide, I can't stop you from doing it, but I certainly wouldn't see it that way. Let us approach the bill positively, let us discuss it as much as possible, and it certainly does not have to be in a hurry just by making the end of the meeting at 14:00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. I don't have any factual points. We will return to the general debate. Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that we are going to have a happy debate over this one too. But I believe it will be mostly material. I would like to begin by thanking both Minister Took, who is not here right now, and my colleague Martin Kolovratník for the energy that they have put in order to reach a consensus. It is extremely rare that we have come to the consensus of all the representatives of all the political parties represented, which I think is very important. It is a very important symbol for the public, too, that if we consider something essential in the interests of this country, we are able to agree on a proposal, although the debate will still be cheerful. Of course, it will also be serious, because this law, this amendment really is an amendment that must very sensitively balance public interest with private interest. Because there is an institute of preliminary possession, which is also needed in Germany and other states, I know that, although I think it would be very important to think about how it will be regulated directly in the law. I'm the one who called it in. According to me, the amendment in Section 4 must be in the sense that the State has shown that no agreement could be reached that the State has really exhausted all possibilities. Not that because we have an institute of preliminary possession, the state will not properly treat the owners as if they skip, and then use it, maybe they will abuse the principle of prior possession. Of course, protection of personal property is very important. As it interferes with personal ownership, I would very much like us to return to the proposals that have been discussed. And this, for example, was a buyout beyond the trade elaborate. This means that if the state leads you through the property construction, it is legitimate, but he can devalue the adjacent land, access to it, there is a possibility to redeem it, even under other conditions. Then I think we should get back to the question of the possibility of a shift. We know that it is particularly important for some historical peasants to own land. Let us talk about it and create conditions that will be as favorable to the owners as possible. That's what I think is important. I also agree that the pre-approval fiction is 60 days in the case of the public authorities concerned. I was talking about professional government. It is not possible for the State authorities, the public authorities concerned, to themselves participate in the suspension of authorisation procedures. That's completely wrong. The list will certainly be the subject of a very passionate discussion. I also think there should be a Prague subway. [[14.00 hours]] As far as speeding up - the whole thing is called "acceleration of construction" - yes, let's speed up, the law is important, I also report to it as a co-president, but if we don't have enough investment from the budget, and please look, the volume of investment in the budget is lower this year than it was during the time of right-wing governments at the time of the crisis, it won't help us either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u27	I thank Mrs Langšádlová and I have Mr Ferjenčík next in line. Please, Mr. Ambassador, however, I warn you that I will have to interrupt you in two minutes, but you will not miss your performance and we will be able to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u28	Thank you for the floor, I believe I can make it. Two notes. First of all, I certainly don't mind public participation in these proceedings. What I consider a problem is that it takes so long for the courts to decide. However, I think that is what we should be dealing with first and foremost, and it is also a problem in a number of other areas. And I certainly wouldn't take the public's right to express myself. I would like to propose that this law also be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as another committee. It's obviously going to have constitutional law conventions, so I think it's quite appropriate. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-006-029.u29	I thank the honourable Member and have a proper application from Mr Petr Dolínek, but I do not know now if we should wait for 14 o'clock... I'm pretty much done. So there isn't even an agreement to extend it, so I'd like to interrupt it with this, my colleague. Before I interrupt the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I have one more technical statement for you, which has already been said here, but I was told to say it once more. On Monday, 5 March 2018, there will be a festive meeting on the anniversary of the birth of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk in the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. I beg you to put all the materials you have on your desks and want them to be preserved in your drawers, otherwise they will be shredded. I hereby adjourn the 7th meeting until Tuesday 6 March 2018 until 14.00. Have a nice weekend.
