ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-020-044.u1	44. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendment of Annexes A and C to the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants adopted in Geneva on 5 May 2017 /German press 96/ - first reading The proposed proposal will be presented by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-020-044.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, so the pollutants are on me. Allow me to present here the Government's proposal to approve the ratification of amendments to Annexes A and C to the Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants. If you think about what organic persistent pollutants are, however attractive it looks, I'm going to disappoint you. They are dioxin-like substances, polychlorinated PCBs, PCBs, DDT-type substances and similar substances. The Czech Republic has been a party to the Stockholm Convention since 17 May 2004. The eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Stockholm Convention decided on 5 May 2017 to include new chemicals in Annex A and C to the Convention. This is the inclusion of decabromodiphenyl ether and short chain chlorinated paraffins in the Annex A Convention with special exceptions for the production and use and inclusion of hexachlorobutadiene in Annex C to the Convention. Annex A includes substances intended for total exclusion or removal from production, use, import and export. Annex C then includes chemicals that arise as undesirable by-products of chemical reactions, for example in combustion processes or chemical production, and the Contracting Parties must take measures to reduce unintended leakages of such chemicals, of course with a view to gradual minimisation and, where possible, even final elimination. Newly classified substances are harmful to human health and the environment, which means they are highly toxic and are very difficult to degrade. These substances are then accumulated through food chains because they are soluble in fats and not in water, and also in the environment they decompose only limitedly. In addition, these substances are subject to remote transmission. The inclusion of new chemicals in Annexes A and C is an important measure for meeting the objective of the Convention, which will contribute to increasing the protection of human health. It is therefore desirable that the inclusion of new substances in Annex A and C be supported by the Czech Republic. The inclusion of these new substances will not have an impact on the Czech Republic, because the production and use of these substances is already completely prohibited or significantly restricted by existing EU legislation. The adoption of amendments to Annexes A and C will therefore not require a change to the legislation in force in the Czech Republic, nor will it have an impact on the state budget, public administration or the corporate sphere beyond what is already provided for by EU legislation. With regard to national law, the Stockholm Convention has the character of the Presidential Treaty and the adoption of amendments to the Convention, including the Annexes, is subject to ratification by the President of the Republic, for which it is therefore the subject of Article 49 (b). (e) The Constitution requires the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-020-044.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please let the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Holík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-020-044.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, hello again. I see the Minister likes me, and the report was extensive enough not to have to use tonguem as persistent organic pollutants. More or less, the minister said absolutely everything. Once again, these are substances that are decaying over the long term, so it's something similar to DDT, and they're stored in the organism. As has already been said, the Stockholm Convention was adopted in 2004 and it is gradually being expanded, so it is currently about the three new substances, as has already been said here: decabromodiphenyl ether, chlorinated paraffins and hexachlorobutadiene. It was also right here that the adoption or extension of this Convention would have no effect on the state budget. So, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we release this item to second reading, and given that the Czech Republic, in fact, they are no longer practically present in the Czech Republic, and that acceptance will be very quick, so I suggest that we shorten the time to discuss to 30 days. As a guarantee committee, I propose the environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-020-044.u5	Thank you, and I therefore open a general debate. I do not see anyone reporting to the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I therefore ask the Minister and the rapporteur if they are interested in final words. They're not interested in final words. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, so we have one more proposal from you to the environment. So we still have a proposal from the Environment Committee. We will vote on both proposals because the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the proposal to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. That means we're going to vote on two proposals, basically. So I don't see any other proposal here in plenary. We'll proceed to the vote, I'll engage. I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote now. Please raise your hand and press the button that agrees. If you're against it, raise your hand and press the button. Voting number 142, registered by 156 Members, for 135, versus zero. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote on a further proposal for the proposal to be ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment. Initiating vote. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, raise your hand and press the button. Voting number 143, registered 156 Members and Members, for 134, versus zero. The motion was accepted. This means that I am stating that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss two committees. It's a foreign committee and it's an environmental committee. That concludes the discussion of this point and we will continue our further negotiations. The next item is
