ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 280/2009 Sb., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /German press 47/6/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered to us as House press 47/7. I welcome Senator Pavel Štohl among us, and I ask that Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Madam Secretary, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the proposal for an amendment to the Tax Code and certain tax laws, which is the subject of dealing with current issues relating to the provision of information to the tax administrator. You will remember the long discussion of this amendment of the tax code, when the House of Deputies has already been discussed and approved, and therefore I do not consider it necessary to introduce it in detail again. I will merely remind you that the subject involves, on the one hand, the transposition of the so-called DAC 5 Directive, or the amendment to the European Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, but also a thematically subsequent revision of the existing provisions of the Tax Code, thus regulates the provision of information by banks and other financial institutions. As you will remember, there has been a lively discussion about this law, and the House press has been the subject of several amendments. In the first place, the issue of the scope and method of providing data to tax administrators was addressed by lawyers and other legal professionals. On the basis of constructive debates on this subject, both in committees and in plenary, we have jointly reached a compromise solution, which includes safeguards guaranteeing the protection of the right to legal aid and the activity of legal professions. In particular, it was the introduction of specific communication channels on both the State side and the relevant professional chambers. For example, the obligation of payment service providers to communicate data on electronic banking to the tax administrator has also been removed. I believe that the debate in the Chamber of Deputies has led to a better quality of the bill, and I would like to thank you again for it. The resulting compromise was also accepted by the professional chambers and the plenary The Chamber of Deputies was approved by a large majority of 125 votes. Unfortunately, there was a rejection of the bill and its return to the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, the debate at the Senate plenary, which was rather brief, showed that part of the senators unfortunately were based on some misleading information, which appeared mainly in the media on the proposal. First of all, it was a claim that the DAC 5 directive implemented by the bill concerns the fight against money laundering, while the government is only trying to extend its impact on the tax administration. I have to stress repeatedly that this assumption is wrong. Directive DAC 5 regulates only and only the tax issue and explicitly requires that selected data from the fight against money laundering should also be provided for tax purposes. I'm sure you remember when I'm here in the attic The Chamber of Deputies explained that the issue is already covered by the so-called AML directive, which we have had since 1995. This means that the group of obliged persons and the circle of information is constant. It is therefore not possible to comply with the request made in the Senate to exclude tax issues from the proposal as going beyond the directive, because that is the only content of the DAC 5 directive. The draft law goes beyond the directive only in that it provides the tax authorities with the same access to the information to be obtained by the foreign tax administrator. Even in the Senate, there was no argument as to why it should be otherwise. Indeed, even in the rest of Europe, we have not come across the possibility of obtaining information to combat tax evasion for national purposes. The compromise that was made on the basis of negotiations at the Chamber of Deputies was that this information would be obtained only and exclusively for international cooperation in the professional chambers. So there we are actually absolutely in line with the implementation of the directive. Since, as a result of the electoral year in the Czech Republic, the implementation deadline, which expired on 31 December 2017, and the relevant procedure has already been initiated by the European Commission, I do not consider it desirable that the adoption of the bill be postponed further. I would therefore like to ask you for the repeated support of this bill in a compromise text which has already been approved on this land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I am now asking the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which was the Committee on Budgets, Mr Volný, if he wishes to speak, whether he wants to comment on the Senate's decision. [[No.]] It's not like that. I also ask the rapporteur of the next committee, which was the constitutional committee, Mr Marek the Výborný, whether he wants to comment on the Senate resolution? [[I don't want to.]] He doesn't want to. In that case, I am opening a general debate. Senator Pavel Štohl will be the first to speak in the debate. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable Members, the Minister has already said the essence here and partly the development that was. I guess I'll start with what I agree with, what was said here. Indeed, the proposal that has been passed from the House to the Senate is acceptable to professional chambers, which means that it should be tax advisors, lawyers, notaries and so on. This is because, indeed, there were amendments in your House, which were made, and, among other things, it was adapted that this would really concern only international cooperation in tax administration, not national cooperation, as originally proposed. Then I think the Minister suggests that she has agreed with the so-called narrow throat, which means that the tax administrator, who will collect the information, will not be any tax administrator, but will be a central liaison body such as the General Financial Directorate, which will cooperate with the relevant professional chamber and so on. So here I think we really are in agreement. I guess you all still remember that it really did it between the professional chambers when it was discussed, quite a lot of heated discussions, eventually because I'm in the Chamber of Tax Advisors, so I have pretty good personal ties there, so they said when it's going to be in the form that it went to the Senate, it's acceptable for us. Well, that's the thing where I'm sure the secretary and I agree. What I don't think sounded here, if I listened carefully, and what I suspect in the Senate that the Constitutional Committee wanted to make an amendment is that the same thing that was achieved for professional chambers, in order to cover financial institutions such as banks, insurance companies. Because it is not only for international cooperation, but also for national cooperation in tax administration, and there is no narrow throat. So in the amendment, it was originally proposed that it be either the General Financial Directorate or the Directorate-General for Customs, which would have the right to obtain the information. And now there was a big debate in the Senate about what choice to choose. Since we were in agreement that the regulation relating to professional chambers should indeed apply to financial institutions. And there were two options. Variant one. Either we reject the whole bill, or we accept the amendment. Finally, the Senate decided to dismiss the law. If I specifically wanted numbers, the Senate plenary was one of the 58 senators present to reject 50. So the Senate's plenary is proposing to reject this law. [[14.50 hours]] Maybe if I tried to sum it up, there would be two reasons. The first reason is that financial institutions do not have to deal with what professional chambers have, and the second reason that in general the Ministry of Finance went beyond the DAC 5 directive on certain points and that, therefore, it should not be an objective. And that transposition period the secretary said really went down 31. 12. 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u5	Thank you, Senator. Mr Volný came forward to the debate, who, as I said, was the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, so I will give him my word. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not deliberately sign up as rapporteur so that I could say my contribution as a Member. I am glad that I waited because I was very relieved to hear from the senator, colleague, that he, as a professional who understands this, who also participates in some chamber, says for him that the variant that went from the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate was acceptable - he says it as a person, does not say it for the Senate, I must say it correctly. I think this law has been discussed in the House for a relatively long time, sometimes quite stormy. You know we were under pressure from a huge lobby. Finally, some passages that some of us would like to see were released. It really came from here as a consensus of almost the entire House, except for exceptions, and it was approved by even 126 votes, which means, even a constitutional majority. I was pleased to do so, and I thank everyone for coming forward in this way, and I believe that we will do likewise in today's vote and leave this draft space to settle in our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u7	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will also be speaking in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if I correctly understood the motivation of the senators, they were particularly concerned with the regulation regarding the information provided by banks, which are indeed slightly beyond implementation. However, I am quite unhappy about the procedure where they have not proposed an amendment that would only cut it for implementation, and instead they propose to abolish the entire law, because the most reproached passages, that means that any tax administrator can request information, they are already in the current law, so by rejecting it today, we will only achieve that the whole law will be renegotiated for months or maybe half a year or even more, and the actual differences in the non-implementational part are absolutely minimal. The only significant thing I have noticed is that, in addition to information about account owners, information about account opponents is provided, where it makes quite sense that if the tax administration has the authority, it should not go through white horses. Otherwise, there are some loans and safe deposit boxes and mailboxes, and that's it. Those are completely marginal changes compared to the whole law. And I fear, with all due respect to fellow Members of the Senate, that they have not been informed of the state of affairs that is currently in force in that paragraph 57 3 today and that they have looked at the law, they have looked at what the non-application part is, and they have said to themselves: that is a significant change. [[This ……]] But the change is absolutely minimal against the paragraph that is currently in force. For these reasons, even as there has been a compromise in the House - we have succeeded in pushing for a cut-off of the geolocation data of the people from the proposal, and we do not even know what the law would look like if it had been going through the House again, perhaps it would have been voted on a completely different platform - the compromise that was reached in the House, we will honor it, just as we honored it in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u9	Thank you. Mr Michálek is also in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I wanted to discuss some of the reasons that were presented here by Senator Štohl, for which the Senate rejected the bill. If I recapitulate correctly, first of all it was that financial institutions did not have that narrow throat and let's say control by self-government, and second of all, that Ministry of Finance respectively. The Chamber of Deputies went beyond simple transposition. That is why we have the legislative procedure here, which is why we have the Senate here to clean up laws, improve legislation, come up with amendments, but not to reject the proposal that transposes European legislation. After all, we have international commitments to the European Union, to the other Member States, we want to be a valid member of the European Union, to respect the commitments, and that is why the Senate has the role of having the opportunity to adopt amendments and to come to the Chamber of Deputies with it. I think that citizens are rightly angry sometimes that the Senate costs us 50 million crowns a month and, as a result, it actually comes out that the Senate voted it out, clouded it and did not do what is actually expected of it in the Czech constitutional system, that the laws will improve, clean and send improved to the Chamber of Deputies. I think the proposal, as it was approved, has some gaps. Of course, it will not fall on certain entities, such as the national tax administration, which I think is a mistake. On the other hand, it's feasible, and it doesn't really deviate much from the transposition. This does not deviate from the current state of affairs in the provisions mentioned here, so there is no reason for us to drop the entire bill so that we do not meet the obligations imposed on us by the international treaties in force. So the Pirate Club will vote for us to overrule the Senate in this case, and for the law to be passed despite the Senate's disapproval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u11	Thank you. Mr Juránek is signed up with a point of fact, and President Stanjura is signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u12	I will take the liberty of responding to the speaker through the President. I mean, he should be the one to study what the Senate is for. Of course, the Senate has given us quite clear reasons that have been made clear here, why, in this case in particular, he has taken a stand. If he has chosen to choose this path, then let us respect it, and if we have a different opinion, let us overrule it, but let us not talk about the position of the Senate, whether it is yes or no, or whether the procedure that he has chosen to reject it is right or wrong. I think we need to keep our duty to each other. If we consider it important to overrule the Senate, let us vote it over, we have this option, but it is not about telling the Senate whether to choose the path of rejection or the path of amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u13	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. We voted against, today our club will vote in agreement with the Senate's position. It seems to me to me that the rather brave design presented by President Michálek that the one who sticks to the transposition laws of his good - in quotes good - Czech ideas is threatening the transposition. It's exactly the opposite. If it were a pure transposition, the law would have passed the Chamber of Deputies smoothly, and it would have passed the Senate smoothly. Let's not bring up the fact that we have obligations to fulfill. We are prepared to fulfill those commitments, but without those, in quotation marks, the improvements introduced by the Minister in resignation, the Prime Minister in resignation, and the entire government in resignation. We're forgetting about that. They've been in remission for so long, we almost forgot about it. The second thing I want to say in this context. The day after tomorrow is a big day according to big regulators, starting to pay GDPR. I'm so excited. I don't know how many emails you've been getting in the last few days and weeks to give some consent, how many training offers you've seen, how many invoices, how convenient it is, etc. At this point, there is a legislative process, of course late, an adaptation law late. If it were a government made up of a political entity other than the previous government, you could say: maybe they can't do that, they've been in remission for four months. But since the YES movement was part of the government, the government slept as a whole in the last parliamentary term. [[15.00 hours]] Why do I say that? The effort of many of us, or the efforts of many of you, is to relieve and reduce sanctions for the public sector, for public institutions, for those to whom we give further and further prying powers by this bill. We do good, we relieve those who collect the most information. The state knows everything about us, and we're seriously discussing how we're gonna relieve the state of those fines when it's ridiculously high. Who discusses how to relieve the private sector? Nobody. Nobody. It's almost impossible. We hear from the Prime Minister at the resignation how we will be active in Europe. And we say, yes, if we are active and if the government enforces the things on which there is agreement, it will have our support. What did this government do to possibly propose a revision of this pointless regulation, which instead of affecting those who trade addresses and trade data, and which we are able to identify, and that is where it belongs, fell across everyone? And the absurd interpretations. Really absurd interpretations where there must be consent and there may not be consent. How much money does it cost? When we had GDPR here, we asked how much it cost the public administration today. But who thinks of the private sector? That kind of assurance, "well, at first, the fines won't be big," we can believe, and we don't have to. Nobody. And here's another experiment, and there's always more and more attempts to expand the list of information that the public sector, the Treasury, tax administration will have access to. Always backed up by good intentions. One register at a time. And I could tell you what kind of registers have been going on in the last five years. What are you big regulators doing? And now you're proposing to yourself to reduce sanctions. Those who collect the data, and we don't know what will ever happen to them. But those little companies, the businessmen, we can't help them. And the government didn't do anything about it. Neither the adaptation law nor any initiative to mitigate the absurd parts of the regulation. We do not reject him as a whole. Once again, yes, there are companies here, trading information, personal data. It's very valuable. You know how the ads are targeting you. To you, to your relatives, to your friends, very sophisticated, how they collect your shopping habits and the like. And here we are constantly expanding other competences. So if anyone threatens to fulfill our obligations, they're the ones who add their own ideas to implementation. And then they argue: the directive doesn't rule it out. Well, that's true. None of us are saying that. I really hate the pride of some of our colleagues who tell senators what to do and what not to do. I expect the Senate to either give it back to us if they have doubts, or they will reject it. The rejection is stronger. This means the upper chamber tells us that, in their opinion, the chambers as a whole, not my political parties, and we do not have a majority in the Senate, unfortunately, that the law is wrong and that it could not be corrected simply by amendments - which, by the way, we will have at the next point when the Senate sent us amendments. And the argument, instead of thinking about why it is, is: We had a constitutional majority, we were already in favour once. So they live on a couple of streets down there, it's the next building, the Senators' uncles, I don't know what they're making up, but like... No one has properly disproved the Senate's reservations as an institution. I know some pirates don't like it, I see the nonverbal communication, so I don't even have to say through those who spin their heads. I know their designs were much worse. I agree. Next time, they might suggest we break the confessional secret, right? Make it sound like the lawyers. That way, I could continue with their absurd designs. I understand them. They don't think it's enough, at least some regulation. It seems too much to us. And not only to us as civil democrats in the Chamber of Deputies, but also to the Senate as an institution. And I look forward to the debate on GDPR, I look forward to those speeches when the various ministers ask for a reduction of fines for their organisations, for their ministries, for their contributions and so on. And I'm going to ask each of them, "What have you done to prevent such sanctions from threatening small entrepreneurs, businessmen, small eseróčky, who do not deal with information that is frightened and who are already billing many today?" Exactly when I talk about the Senate, what my colleague Vystrčil Miloš said: In the Czech Republic GDPR means to scare and face.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With factual remarks, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Bláha, and Minister Schillerová is enrolled in the debate. There is therefore a factual comment by Mr Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to respond briefly. I am simply unhappy with the Senate's progress, because in this House, I voted twice completely in line with my colleagues from ODS and TOP 09 in order to keep this Section 57 paragraph 3 in the current version. I voted in favour twice. It's really not like the law can't be fixed. There are two sentences in that section. And the fact that the senators won't take the job of proposing this to us and allowing us to vote on the purely implementation level, I just consider it a huge mistake. And given that in the House of Votes there have been amendments that mitigated the provision, I am not going to go through the whole process again with the result being worse in relation to the personal data. So this is my position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u17	Thank you. Mr Bláha and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am only here to respond, through the President, to the words that have been said here about GDPR. I'm sure most of you know that I brought GDPR here five months ago, and I was in government with it. And last week, I met with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Office for Personal Data Protection, and really, small and medium-sized companies, if they don't trade in data, it won't touch. I have been promised that the Ministry of the Interior will draw up a one-page guide for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, on which it will be clearly stated when it applies to them, since when it does not apply to them. And I have a promise from the Office of Personal Data Protection that there'll be a sentence that if there's no serious breach, then in fact, only a reminder will come to the data box. All of this will be done in writing so that the entrepreneurs can get it into their hands, to get it into the hands of all the unions and all those involved in cooperation with the small and medium-sized ones. So it's really on a very favorable path. As GDPR is done, it does not touch small and medium-sized ones who, as I said, do not trade in data, but only employ or cooperate with companies. If you were dealing with it, you'd figure it out just as much as I do. And all we have to do is tell the tradesmen, give them a simple guide so they don't have to deal with the multi-page regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u19	Thank you. President Stanjura will now respond with a factual remark. Then, in the general debate, Minister Schillerová and President Kalousek will speak. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u20	I'm gonna be at both shows? I agree with Mr Ferjenčík on this. Yes, we voted together. It is a pity, I think it would be better if we had the opportunity to vote on an amendment from the Senate that would soften this paragraph or what we would call it. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. And when I'm faced with a choice, whether to support what is or rather support it again, we choose to do it again rather than accept that it's wrong, but God knows how it would turn out next time, maybe it would be even worse. [[15.10 hours]] And I don't know - I'm here through the GDPR, one of us said members of the Chamber of Deputies. [[He's laughing.]] I don't know where you were carrying it, who you were carrying it to, and what you did with it. [[♪ Still laughing ♪]] It's completely ridiculous. Mr Blá, through the Vice-President, have you tabled any bill? This is how you wear it to the Chamber of Deputies. You may have met someone, but the assurance of one Member that businessmen are okay, that it will not concern them, it does not have any weight, it is false information, underestimating and racketing the problem. That's all I'm gonna say about it. Next time you bring something back, try writing it as a bill, so we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u21	Mr Bláha will still respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u22	I just want to tell everyone again that maybe you're used to practice, that everything needs a law. But in this case, there's no need for that law. If you read this whole thing carefully and you deal with it like I did, you'll find that really according to paragraph 5 point, I think 4, now I don't exactly have it in my head, is an exception for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. So all you need to do is load it, and you'll find that it's not about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And if they follow normal things, that is. normally record, normally make deals with their business friends, they don't sell them, so they don't have to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u23	Mr. Stanjura's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u24	And very seriously, Mr. Ambassador. If the law is useless, I'm surprised you didn't propose rejection in the first reading of the proposals your government makes when they're useless. And I know you didn't have the guts. But let's not do this now, I don't want to burden this point, but when GDPR comes, let's have a debate about what you said here and show knowledge. You may have read it, but no paragraph 4 of point 5 or vice versa, I don't want to paraphrase you and mock you, or paragraph 5 of point 4 that it doesn't concern small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, it just isn't in the regulation. So don't lie here. And if you're convinced you're right, quote it accurately, show us the black and white. If it's there, I'll publicly apologize and say we all misunderstood. The only one who has understood this well is Mr Bláha and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are not really concerned. But it's not true, unfortunately. I would much rather you, Mr Vice-President, be right. But it's not. So don't tell anyone here it's none of their business if it's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u25	Thank you. Minister Schillerová will now speak in the debate. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will return your attention from GDPR back to the amendment to the DAC 5 Tax Code and allow myself to respond to what has been said here. I am pleased to thank Senator Štohl for having learned now on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies a moment ago what is actually the reason for returning the Senate's law. I have the exact Steno Record from the Senate, and I have drawn up basic factual claims that I can respond to, which was said there. And this is actually the primary reason that I understood only now after the performance didn't come up. There were three crucial points when I should sum up the relatively short log. The first statement made in the Senate: The draft law goes beyond the DAC 5 directive, which concerns the fight against money laundering, while the government seeks to expand its impact on tax management. I will refute this claim, because Directive DAC 5 only regulates tax issues and explicitly requires that the selected data that have been collected so far to combat money laundering are newly provided for tax purposes. That's the essence of DAC 5. This shift is not the work of the government or the Ministry of Finance, but it is the idea of a European legislature. However, what the government is trying to do beyond the directive is only that the domestic tax administrator has the same access to information as the foreign tax administrator. That's a legitimate request. The second thing that was said on the Senate floor. I quote: The data will be provided not only to the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic but also to municipalities for managing local fees. My reaction. The DAC Directive also applies to local charges, of course, because, when I speak of tax administration, local taxes belong to tax administration, and, like national legislation, it understands the administration of taxes, fees and other similar cash transactions as one divisible unit. This follows from the tax rules. The municipalities in charge management already today, because they are in the position of tax administrator, so they have the same procedural powers as any other tax administrator and may require exactly the same information from third parties, typically from banks if they are needed for tax management. This is essential: if necessary. No excesses are known from many years of practice, which also corresponds to the fact that acts, the competent authorities leave an indelible mark. Remember, I explained here that if this information is required, there must be a challenge. The challenge has the character of a decision, I've been doing it for years. The decision must be justified, must have a lead in the file, etc. I can't imagine there might be a situation where the administrator of local charges could have a relevance on the basis of the file. I quote: Directive DAC 5 does not expect it to apply to domestic tax administration. My reaction: Directive DAC 5 only regulates external cooperation between Member States on principle, while national tax administration does not make European law mandatory. But at the same time, in paragraph 4 of the preamble to the directive, it is explicitly stated - I would like to quote: Access to information to combat money laundering in the framework of administrative cooperation in the field of taxation would ensure that tax authorities are better placed to combat tax evasion and tax fraud more effectively. End of quote from the directive. This means, therefore, that the directive sees this solution as positive for national tax administration as well, and this corresponds to the approach of the other Member States which have implemented the directive to date. There are certainly more than half of them, and we do not know any state that would restrict the possibility of obtaining information only for international cooperation. Just a little thought in the end. Why did we go beyond financial institutions? We originally had a novel where we wanted to go beyond and allow the domestic tax administrator for all obliged persons, and because we did not want to discriminate against the Czech tax administrator. After the discussion in the Commission's bodies, in the committees at the House of Deputies, you know that it has narrowed down for the professional chambers to object, they have referred to the right to legal aid, even though I argued that it is already enshrined in the AML Directive, there is an exclusion, it does not apply to legal aid. However, you know that I supported President Michálek's amendment, but the regulation today is that as far as the professional chambers are concerned, we have a narrow throat. Information will be provided only between the General Financial Directorate and the Chamber's body, and we have actually only strict implementation there. There is no reason for financial institutions. First of all, professional chambers, those questions tend to be saffron. The need to exchange information. That's why it's possible to load the narrow throat. It would be totally against the interest of financial institutions, where, on the contrary, questions are more frequent in order to do so with a narrow throat, as Senator Štohl suggested here. I would like to thank both President Michálek and Mr Ferjenčík for not only reading the DAC 5 directive, but also reading the current legislation in the tax system and interpreting exactly what the directive requires and where this legislation is going. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u27	Thank you, Madam Secretary. President Kalousek will now speak in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Ferjenčík, no doubt, is right. I would also much rather have a draft of the Senate lying here, which would, in the area of Section 57 of the Tax Code, modify the draft for the simple implementation of the European directive DAC 5, and I would be willing to vote in favour of such a proposal. The question, of course, is how it would turn out. I fear that, with the current distribution of political forces in the House, the worse option would still prevail, but we could at least vote positively in favour of a proposal. The TOP 09 certainly cannot be suspected of being a party to the anti-European, or even a party to the Eurosceptic. The government knows that it can count on our support for both its allied commitments and the implementation of jointly agreed directives and regulations. However, we are forced by the current government approach not to support this bill, which is presented as the implementation of the European directive. Not because it was a European directive, but because the Czech government beyond this directive, in the framework of the ongoing tax jihad, particularly against small and medium-sized ones, has enriched the implementation of this directive with its own ideas. We consider this to be so risky and harmful that we cannot support the draft as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any more applications for the debate. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? I don't see anyone like that, so I'm done with the debate. I'm asking the secretary and senator if there's any interest in final words. Yes, it is. Senator, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'm just two sentences. One thing I wanted to thank the Members for standing up for the Senate, because I think it would really be awfully unfortunate to label each other here. And then just what the secretary said at the end. I know I said that in my introductory words strongly enough, the Senate really, one of the reasons why he proposed rejection is that it actually went beyond the directive. I explained the factual reasons, these were the financial institutions, but otherwise, quite often in the debate, it was said that this was beyond the directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-018-002.u31	Thank you, Senator. We can now proceed to the vote. We shall vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which means that the approval of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the consent of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this Act. I will first ask that the necessary majority be set on the voting system, at the same time calling on Members who are not present in the negotiating room. There's an application for check-out, which I just did. I beg you to re-enlist with your ID cards. We have the majority set up, the Members are registered, so I will introduce you to the motion for a resolution which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 47/6." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 56. Registered 169 Members, for 123, versus 42. The bill was passed. [[Let's hear it.]] I thank the Minister, the Senator, and I end the negotiation of this law. Meanwhile, more apologies came from today's meeting. Mr František Kopřiva apologizes today for 14.30 a.m. by 15 p.m. due to the working lunch of the inter-martial group of friends with the ambassador of Mexico. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day and tomorrow, i.e. 24. 5. for the whole day of the meeting for working reasons in his electoral region and Mr Petr Pávek apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 to 19 pm due to the hearing. And President Kováčik's apology has just ended, so the President is present. I'm now initiating a motion for a law number.
