ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u1	1. Request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence President Kalousek, with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Your decision that the item will not be interrupted and that we will first decide on the extradition of the Lords of Faltýnek and Babiš must be respected. And so please forgive me for delaying you for three, four minutes tops, to respond immediately to the public information that was heard today at the Prime Minister's press conference, I think it is essential that you know the immediate, immediate response. In the morning before eight o'clock, the Prime Minister, explaining his position, accused everyone and everything of conspiracy and purposeful lies and conspiracy against him to be discredited as Prime Minister and Chairman of the ANO movement. Of course, I've traditionally been among the blamed, I'm not complaining about that. I would just like to stress the sentence that the President said on the sound record: "In 2012 after I joined politics, Minister of Finance Kalousek commissioned a special audit to: find something on Babiš, at any cost find something on the farm." It's on the audio recording, it's possible to verify. Ladies and gentlemen, 2012 is a decisive time when Andrej Babiš was not allowed to own the farm because otherwise he would not be entitled to a subsidy and would have committed tax fraud. He also told us for quite a long time that he had no idea who the farm belonged to in 2012. Then, at an emergency meeting, he admitted that in the decisive period, the anonymous shares were owned at that time, including in 2012, by his two children and a partner. This morning, however, he admitted that he owned the farm in 2012. Because how else could Miroslav Kalousek, according to his own words, send that audit to Babiš, to the farm? The Prime Minister probably believes or believes that I somehow learned the information only he and his closest associates had, and in 2012 I sent an audit to Babiš, to whom he said the farm belonged in 2012. I really didn't know. However, he certainly did, and he convicted himself of that sentence in front of the public. I'd like to thank you for that, Prime Minister. Openness above all else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u3	Mr President, thank you. And I'm finally opening up a point that's the subject of today's meeting. The debate was interrupted on Wednesday 10. 1. 2018, and if I do not register any applications with priority rights, we will continue the debate. First up is Mr Václav Klaus, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, good day. I think there should be rigour for the newcomers in every field of human activity, for the MPs, so last time I waited four hours for my word, this time 140 hours. As a mathematician, I began to wonder if it was an arithmetic sequence, which would mean eleven and a half days next time, or geometric - that would be six and a half months. It's not funny anymore. But to the point. There are always two things that shake around here: trust in the government and some people's prosecutors with a bit of bloody foam at the mouth of the prosecution of two Members and extradition of the House. I mean, these two things have nothing to do with each other. These are mathematically independent phenomena, as evidenced by the fact that it is completely indifferent, which is discussed first and second, and the result of one does not prejudice the result of the other. All they have in common is a clear result. Because, as both Members wish to be issued, so does the distrust of this Government, everyone, including the plaintiffs. The issue is clear. It takes the whole opposition because it's a big problem. And those who no longer have a political agenda would like to discuss the remaining three years and seven months, or how much we have until the end of our term. The issue is logically wanted by Mr. Babiš, because if he feels innocent, he wants to clear himself and then eventually deal with those who screwed up with him. That's obvious, too. So we all want it, and the result will look like it. If I'm gonna add some wisdom to that, I'm gonna say about that. What happened, anyway? It is quite clear that the grants for small enterprises or small enterprises ended up in Agrofert. And the fact is either fraud, or all the subsidy conditions have been met, and this difference will be addressed by the cohorts of different lawyers, etc. I don't really care what they eventually come to, because let's be honest, three-quarters of all European subsidies are thieving. We take taxpayers' money to the Czech nurses, to the teachers, then we send them to Brussels by one order, where the Swedish nurses and teachers add money to it, so if they can be trusted, then big thieves go to set up operational programs, such different inclusions and so on, for what money, what channels it will flow, and then it goes back to us, where different players, our locals, whether it's Rath or someone else. [[Applause from the left and across the hall]] In fact, some hotel gets $60 million and next to a standing hotel doesn't get and they're supposed to compete, or somebody builds a golf course or a stork nest. What happened to this country that it's no longer normal to work, but to normally draw? That a lot of intelligent young people, organized, capable of employing someone, building something, are dedicated to grant programs? How does all this evil solve the government program? I have to say, nothing. I'm gonna go over to the government fluently. It's similar to the extradition. They're all in agreement because the government itself doesn't want trust. It testifies to how a bit of an apathetic speech by the Prime Minister, and this is a matter of respect - three months have passed since the elections, citizens have decided, want the government, want a significant change in the Czech political map, and the winning party has to negotiate, negotiate a coalition or support, or it is a few votes, so some defectors are negotiating, things are often not quite nice. After all, President Masaryk pardoned two communist MPs to allow Edvard Beneš to be elected. So that's the thing that just happens in our democratic system. But those parties just have to have an effort to rule. Change something in the country, deliver at least part of your electoral program to your constituents. This government doesn't want it, she doesn't care about more stretching, she doesn't care about longer focus. Maybe he's looking forward to the power pact of Drahoš - Babiš, I can't judge, but I just don't understand the reason. I am so sorry that I do not want to discuss what I like about the government statement, such as the rejection of the euro, the continuation of nuclear power plants in the Czech Republic, and what I do not like. Because in this government statement, everyone finds something, and so it's written. The SPD has a general referendum there, the pirát have a digital Czech Republic there, and I'll find something there too. But, you know, trusting the government is like proposing to a suitor in a family. He must not be apathetic, he must know that he really wants it, and he cannot say: well, I will either be a chemical engineer and we will live here in Prague, I will build bridges, or maybe we will be harvesting apples in Australia, and we will be at the Macháč at the hippo festival during the summer, or there is still a third possibility that we would run a cabin in Jeseníky. Well, at that point, the dad's probably gonna throw him out when he changes his mind, maybe he'll come back again, but this can't be taken seriously. It's the same with this government statement. I think everyone's waiting for him not to be accepted. If I were to make a joke, I expect the ANO Members to leave the hall for the vote, the others will be against it, and that will be the end of the day. So that's the Martyrium we're gonna be watching here today. So that's the few words I wanted to say about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jakub Michálek is next in the debate. No, he's downloading his application. The next is therefore Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. If I understand the Rules of Procedure correctly, I would like to ask Prime Minister Babiš, without the means of the President, what process has come up that the government of this so-called. The improved program statement deleted the publication of ČEZ and Česká pošta contracts. Whether it was at the request of potential coalition partners from KSČM, or potential coalition partners from ČSSD, or at the request of your own member's club, or whether you have reconciled with Radek Pokorný, Mr. Lawyer, on which you have in the past left no dry thread, but which, in the long term, fights against any opening of CEZ to public control. So, Prime Minister, how did this go missing from the document? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your brief contribution. Mr. Jan Bartošek will perform next with his speech. Mr. Chairman, isn't it? [[Informal agreement off the microphone.]] Gentlemen have agreed. He will now speak with the Prime Minister's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u8	Hello. Mr President, colleagues. About the first post. We have a deadline, virtually. We actually had a deadline, didn't we?, until the 13th, so if the ODS actually changed its mind, we can cancel the meeting for two hours and we can negotiate the hundred-three. But I had no such position from the ODS and we tried. And as far as the SAO is concerned, I really don't know right now, but I can only confirm that we will definitely support you. And if it fell out, I'm sorry. And I can definitely say that we definitely support the expansion of the SAO's competences. [[And the register of contracts?]] And the contract register? Also, of course. The register of contracts was enforced thanks to us. Ask Mr. Franc from Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, then, with his speech, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My contribution will be short. I will speak to the Prime Minister, his speech, his business speech, and it will concern the government's programming statement. If we imagined that the Prime Minister was in the position of Executive Director, he would come before the Board of Directors and present his business plan to the Chamber of Deputies as an authority higher than the government for four years. Prime Minister, as a top businessman, you must be aware that you simply cannot succeed with this plan before the board of directors. You have not secured your support, you have been sloppy throughout the preparation, you have quite dilettantly approached the negotiations, and for that reason I believe you will not be able to succeed in the Chamber of Deputies, and if you did this way of working in the business, I think your employer would have fired you. Since the programming declaration does not contain a number of things that are crucial to KDU-ČSL, I can say from the position of members of KDU-ČSL's Board of Directors that we will not support this government and will not vote for this minority government as members of the Board of Directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u11	Thank you, Mr President, for your contribution. Vice-President Pikal will now appear. But he is excused for the moment, if I remember correctly the apologies I have read, so please give Mr. Petr Třešňák's contribution. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u12	Thank you. Good day, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President and the honourable Government. Let me also use this space to inquire about the government and its programming statements, although after something was said here last week about how the dog and the cat cooked a cake, a kind of eintopphus in which everyone is found, I will use the word "compilation" politely. However, even Mr Zaorálek tore this place up protestively last week, I wouldn't want that. I reckon, although we all know how this government's confidence will turn out, I think my questions are timeless, maybe even for round two, and I'm going to try to grind into two resorts right now. So my first question, virtually. A series of three questions is for the Minister of Health. The first question concerns staff. Although I myself oppose radical personnel changes at ministries, here I would like to ask whether Professor Prymula will remain in the position of deputy, because there is no need to mention his cases and other things, thanks to which he was also removed from the post of Director of the Faculty Hospital, so that Mr Němeček will then appoint him his advisor and Mr Ludvík even Deputy. The second question concerns eRecipe, which we will definitely discuss for a long time, but here I assume that the Ministry will use our comments on the exception decree, continue to work them and work with them. The third question concerns the fact that I found nothing in the programming declaration about limiting the influence of monopolies and oligopolyes. Although the pirát are free-market promoters, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, the emergence of monopoly chains is considered dangerous. There is no such thing in the programming statement, so we assume that when further amendments to the Act on Medicines are made, the Ministry will also support, for example, our proposals for determining market shares so that changes that are valid from 1 January 2014 can actually be applied. 12th and they were from Mr. Vyzula's workshop and Mr. Běhounek's, although they can't be applied completely. The next question is directed to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, because the program was declared just like the election campaign carried in the spirit of lithium, even though I, every time I heard it in the election campaign, I was the first to recall the composition of an unnamed interpreter who put a bullet through his head, but I also understood it as a certain dispute within the previous government coalition. This concerns that you claim that Diamo will promote the interests of the State and actively participate in mining. I therefore do not know whether Diamo's state enterprise will be staffed and will be reinforced financially, although I agree that this should primarily be provided by the state, but even here I do not think that it is entirely a state enterprise that should defend the interests of the state. That's why we have other tools. For example, it is also a government regulation setting the rates for the raw materials extracted. I think it was also the government's decree of 2016 that set the prices. Let's talk about this rationally without involving other state-owned enterprises to promote the interests of the state. In my opinion, they don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Čižinský is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on one more item in the programming statement. This is an environmental chapter. Here is the sentence: "We will prepare and financially support projects to improve air quality in all regions." In this context, I would like to ask the governments whether it is true that they are to discuss the Czech Republic's connection to the Polish action tomorrow, which is to be defined against the stricter limits on air pollution to be applied since 2021. Because if that is the case, and if it were the willingness of this government - let's give it without confidence - to join the lawsuit, it would put the air at risk. Let us remember that healthy air is one of the basic health conditions of our citizens. So I want to ask if this is really a tendency. I would like to go against this tendency as strongly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u15	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Janulík is registered. I'm asking if the Minister of Health's factual remark is valid. You are reporting from the place and the e-mail application is preferred. [[Yes.]] I recommend you log in electronically next time. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, frankly, I don't understand the meaning of the questions of the previous speakers. If all, as one man claims, do not give this government confidence, then why do they ask her anything when no one really expects an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u17	Thank you for keeping up the good time. Now, with a factual remark, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is polite to answer if anyone is asked, so I am happy to answer in that short time. As for Deputy Minister Prymula, he is under the Civil Service Act. I think that is not quite what the Member has described. He was removed from the position of director of the Faculty Hospital in Hradec Králové under very strange circumstances by Minister Němeček, followed by Minister Ludvík appointed him Deputy Minister, respectively. became Deputy under the Civil Service Act, won the tender. I don't have any specific information right now to make any change to this position. If you have this information, I'm ready to hear it, but I don't really have the information you're talking about right now. As far as eRecipe is concerned, we have made it clear that we will work to improve it, that we will postpone sanctions for a year. We're gonna talk about this in the pharmaceuticals law. Here I think the willingness to talk about improving this system on our side exists. In terms of limiting the influence, as you said, of monopolies and oligopoly, we have some competition authority here that has it in the job description to monitor the market environment and the restrictions on monopolies and oligopolyes. As for your comment on the Drug Act, it was clearly said on the last Health Committee that we would discuss your proposal. We just didn't want to put him in that amendment to the Act on Drugs that we're going to discuss because there was a time limit for implementation, because there's an implementation directive that needs to be implemented by 15. 2. otherwise sanctions would threaten the Czech Republic. But we're willing to talk about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u19	Thank you. With Mrs Kovářová's point of fact and then President Bartošek's position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer my colleague Janulík's question as to why we are asking. Mr President, we ask because it is our right to ask the government what is in the government's statement, what is missing there, what we are possibly dissatisfied with. I hope you won't deny us that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u21	Thank you. Now President Bartošek, then Mr Benešík. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'll pick it up briefly. I will also speak to Mr Janulík through you. We ask because the government - she doesn't know if it has or doesn't have confidence - it does. The government is firing civil servants from ministries, the government is taking steps and making decisions, and we are asking this government what it is doing, whether it respects the programming statement it has submitted, whether it is contrary to what it says. That's why we're asking. Because the government decides and the Chamber of Deputies controls it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr Benešík, Mr Benešík, is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will be very brief, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister of Health here said something about a certain deputy. I'm not an expert in health care. I don't think I've ever had any contact with the deputy, I don't know if he's had any case or not. I really don't know. Anyway, it was said here that the Deputy won the tender and there's no reason to call it off, so I got it. There was more than that, and today there were no Deputys, and they weren't Deputys in a few days since the government took power. So if you want to, you can do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u25	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President Filip. Please. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a little shocked. I understand that some Members who are newly elected may not fully accept the entire rule of law, even if they have sworn allegiance to the Constitution of the Czech Republic and to the laws, but a question of how does the government act? Of course he has to act. I sometimes have a big problem with some of the views expressed by the President of the Constitutional Court. I met him in a television debate, but I had to give him the truth when he answered a rather inappropriate question from the editor that the ústava could not even assume that there would be a republic, a state, one minute without a government. Even if the government is in remission, or has no confidence, or has confidence. We are prepared in the Constitution to dissolve the Chamber of Deputies and for two months the Senate decides, we are prepared to be in a situation where the rights of even Members may be restricted and we will have to discuss something quickly because there will be a state, but that any state, and now I do not only mean the Czech Republic, could be a second without the government, i.e. without the executive power, is not expected by the constitution of any state, certainly the European Union, perhaps also other states. Maybe it's assumed by someone else who lives in some sort of dictatorship. But in this respect, I really do not see any reason why some Members who are here for more than one parliamentary term might ask such a question that the government is acting. She has to act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka, who was duly enrolled, has come to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u28	Thank you. Mr President, dear fellow Members, honourable Government, I would like to make a brief statement on my contribution from last week. I would ask that not what I said here last week and that I be answered by the members of the government on what I asked about the KSČM's proposal for revision and taxation of church restitution, on the course of last week's government negotiations, so that the ministers that I took the liberty of addressing here today respond to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies today and express their opinion on how they expressed their views on the government last week, as they argued for their departments, on their own behalf. I have asked the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Justice to express themselves, including the possible implications of litigation on the Czech Republic, the Czech State, with an estimate of costs, if the Czech State fails to succeed, to make it clear that the proposal either has some relevance or is really just a populist cry into the dark. Because in the previous government, where I was present, I remember that we had discussions about this, and, if I remember correctly, the YES MEPs did not support those proposals that were in the last parliamentary term. So I wonder what is the fundamental change in that attitude if it is not mere populism. However, Mr. Janulík here has said why we are asking. I'd say we're asking because you write. And if it is written in the programming declaration, the government in this composition must listen much more than another government to the opposition's proposals and cooperate actively, because this government model requires frequent support from other parliamentary parties, etc., it is on page 4, so let me ask for a specific case - please, nicely, or if other representatives of other parliamentary parliamentary parties can respond in technical terms - with whom, for example, a fundamental draft amendment to the Civil Service Act has been consulted. With communists, with CSSD, with Pirates, with SPD, with ODS, TOP 09? Was any of you, please, nicely or by the parties consulted on the proposal, which is now being put into the legislative process in a shortened inter-ministerial review procedure? I don't know about that. And if you're writing something here and it's supposed to have a weight, and it's not a piece of paper that last time was trying to demonstrate by a colleague of the Zaorálek, then I'd really like it to be taken seriously, so don't take the right to ask. When you write something and do something else completely. Plus, the proposal that's going on today, I have to say, the way I saw the first kick, the one that's straight up says, at that point in time, the YES movement, and this government is making the whole principle of the Civil Service Act just the name. What is proposed there goes in a huge way beyond the stability of the Civil Service Act. And I'm fascinated by the fact that last year, there was an amendment to the law. I do not recall that the YES movement and the ministries managed by them would come up with any proposals for such changes to the Civil Service Act. Why, six months after this law passed through the Chamber of Deputies, suddenly comes the YES movement with such a fundamental change in the stability of the state administration in the Czech Republic? The argument that is mentioned here when it comes to opening up the government to be available to outside experts, it was the amendment that we had here last year. Please read what we voted here last year as the House. Unless, frankly, it's about privatizing the government and managing civil servants as employees of a company. I hate to say this, but what I see, what happened about four weeks ago, when, for example, at the Department of Agriculture section, which two months ago, the Ministry of Finance's material used as an example of the exemplary setting of the public procurement control system, this section was scattered. Then please explain to me where the expertise, competence is, and that we will manage this state as it is supposed to be. I'd like Prime Minister Babiš to comment on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a proper application for discussion, Mr Pavel Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u30	Hello. Thank you for your attention. In fact, I will begin by expressing my admiration to Prime Minister Andrea Babiš, who is extremely handy in how certain things can always be converted into a dorm that he does not really belong to. And that's today's. When I listen to the debate, I listen to the rhetoric from the beginning that, in fact, the government program is doing everything for everyone, so let me just say - here are the key two expressions. The first is the word trust. We're kind of forgetting that word during the debate. And the other is that the government is the supreme authority of executive power. [[with emphasis on the word executive]] That means we don't really need the government to pass laws to us. Those who can submit laws - they are Members, they can give it to the Senate, even the regions. But that is our vote on whether this body of ladies and gentlemen will be given our trust to become the supreme authority of executive power, that is, to control police, prosecutors, financial authorities, state enterprises, etc. without further regulation of certain laws. That's what it's all about. If there's a majority agreement here to make this choir - which I don't want to throw any negatives at right now, I'd say the word dirt, because I don't even know many people, and it would be dishonest of me to say that they can't do that. But what is certainly a duty, when we imagine that we would be in some old Greece, there was some small town and it had 200 inhabitants. Maybe that's us. So it would have to be that the 200 people certainly make some standards. That means they'll agree to build a port there and there. For this, collective decision-making is needed, and they do not need any executive body to function in the meantime before these meetings meet. But the government has a duty, if it wants to fully exercise its powers in the field of the repressive authorities of the state, in the running of the economy, where the government has a say under our laws, it has to ensure the support of at least 101 citizens like that in the Greek city, so that they have the confidence that they can do it and that they can do it, in the meantime. That's what today's vote is about. [[14.40 hours]] The 101 votes don't seem to be here. This means that it follows that, as my colleague Filip says, the government must act, and I do not say that it does not. Yes, there are such things. And in order to have a full mandate to have that trust, it has to in some way secure the 101, because otherwise it is a government in a limited sense, but most importantly - it is not enough that the government here will kindly give us some laws for all. Those laws, if there's a committee here that's gonna sit down with Faltýnek, Blažek, I don't know, Kováčik, Chvojka and all that, we don't need the government to make any good laws. Although I admit it's more comfortable when the government has some kind of apparatus that prepares those laws. So I would ask that we report to this debate whether this body of lords and ladies or ladies and gentlemen is to be the one who is to be given absolute power, of course in the regulation of laws in the sphere of executive power. It doesn't seem that way today. And I am merely calling on Prime Minister Babiš to consider this next time. And I understand that voters like to hear that it's a government for everyone. But it's not in that sense. They have to say 101 to be full in purely executive power. The legislature is basically going to go without that government, and maybe if we hadn't passed a law for a year, maybe we would have done the best we could for those citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I don't want to talk about this government as a whole anymore. I've already said last Wednesday what bothers me about this government and what's wrong with it, why it doesn't deserve trust. But I would like to mention what Mr Jurečka, a fellow Member of Parliament, has already said, that is the amendment to the Civil Service Act. I don't know which one of you knows what it contains. It contains a lot, but a few basic things. First of all, it establishes the Directorate-General for State Services, which should fall under the Office of the Government, that is to say under the Prime Minister. Secondly, for example, executives had five years of office. There's more, but this is a certain basis. First of all, I was once the rapporteur of the Civil Service Act when I arrived - that was almost four years ago, I remember. Now, since YES, it's a very big opinional high, because his negotiators didn't want the state service to fall under the Office of the Government. They didn't want to hear about it. Similarly at that time, the ANO movement under the flag and with the help of Reconstruction of the State protested against the time limitation of leadership functions. So they probably won't show us the management in practice, as they promise, because the current service law has a recipe for incompetent officials, but it wants an evaluation, it needs reprimand, it needs sanctions, and rightly so, and of course, YES managers probably don't want to do that. I can say for ČSSD that we and priori are not opposed to the amendment of the Service Act, but certainly should not be made by a government without trust, a government that has only 78 Members of 200 people in the House. And I would like the Minister of the Interior or the Prime Minister, ideally, but I will also ask the Minister of Justice, because if I have the correct information that there was a very, very short inter-resorative review procedure in the order of perhaps a few days, or perhaps one or two days. I think that this is something that is not meant to happen in such a fundamental law or in a fundamental bill. I don't even think it's polite for those comment points. So I wonder what it's like. That is, if - firstly, that may be the question of the Prime Minister - if he thinks that a government that does not have confidence and does not receive it should make such a fundamental change in such a fundamental law. Maybe to the Home Secretary - if he thinks these changes are right and why he does them. And to the Minister of Justice and, at the same time, to the President of the Government's Legislative Council, if he thinks that shortening the commentary procedure for such an important law for such a short period is even polite to both the comment points, so if he expects a few days of comment proceedings to bring anything into the comment procedure at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u33	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Čižinský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. I just want to ask if I could be answered because I understood that when the Government is responsible to the House, it should be answered here. I'd like to repeat the question about the limits on air pollutants. I would ask the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health or the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of Industry and Trade whether they could respond if the Government is really going to join the Polish action against stricter limits on the release of pollutants, because I consider it shameful and I believe that this will affect the health of citizens. We have a chance that air in our country will improve in 2021 and this initiative will ruin it again. So I'm asking for an answer because I'm very interested. Moreover, it is indeed a very fresh report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u35	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from the Prime Minister. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u36	I'll try to answer that. I thought the interpelations were on Thursday, but that's okay. About joining the lawsuit. Minister Brabec is strongly opposed. It's a proposal from the Minister of Industry. We will discuss this, and I support Minister Brabec more or less emotionally, but the government decides in the choir as you taught us. [[Laughter from ODS and TOP 09.]] So we'll discuss it tomorrow at 6:30. About church restitution. I don't know, it was a crucial program of the ČSSD, because it didn't go through. You guys used to approve this place at half one in the morning, it was expensive, $54 billion. We're going to discuss this here. It's not the government, we've stood up to it because we think the replacements weren't right, and this is where the House decides. And the Civil Service Act. I beg you, Mr Chvojka, through Mr President, it was at the headquarters, after all, he was in charge - don't you remember? - Mr. Dienstbier and Mr. Špidla. And if he didn't make it, the Prime Minister decided to let Chovanec do it. Well, just remember that a little bit. And it's also a suggestion. And that's what we're going to discuss here. It would be interesting to see how many officials and which party they found in the state administration before the law became applicable. That would be interesting, too. And try asking Minister Ludvík if he wanted to get rid of any subordinates for any reason, or to say goodbye to them, why there are lawsuits everywhere, and why the Secretary of State has more competence than the Minister, and why the law actually makes those officials superhuman. So I'm sure we'll discuss this here and we're ready. That's not our decision. [[Attention on time.]] I have not fully understood the Member's confidence -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u37	I'm sorry, Prime Minister... [[Thank you.]] It was just a point of fact. Thank you. A factual point - Mr Marek Benda, then Mrs Valachová, then Mr Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I only have one request for the Prime Minister because he repeats it today and daily as a roundabout that church restitutions were overpriced by 54 billion. That's a nice thesis he invented in 2008 by Vlastimil Tlustý. She may have paid if we let her go, for the last proposal. The proposal, which was approved in 2012, had a total spent amount coming to the church, 53 billion, so it could not be by 54 billion overpriced. Please, this is really material nonsense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, just a comment on the civil service, and what happened here in the Chamber of Deputies when everything was ready for the final vote, the coalition vote of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, when the Civil Service Act looked far different from what we are now experiencing on our own. It didn't happen that someone couldn't handle anything - Mr. Dienstbier was appointed here. Nor did it happen that someone did anything - Mr. Chovanec was appointed here. What happened was that social democracy had to retreat. In particular, on the proposal of the right-wing parties - Mr Kalousek will certainly confirm this through Mr President, or colleagues from the Civil Democratic Party. There has been a significant change in the state service just in the direction that it must not be an independent Directorate-General at the Office of the Government. There must be no stable employment, which means the definition of civil servants. There were various possibilities of ending their service conditions. I'm sorry, I'm not exactly familiar with it, I'm going to express myself when I get to know the novel exactly, the final version of it, but it only means so much that what at least the negotiators for the YES movement, and I was there, denying it, that is, they were against it, that is, that the General Directorate of State Service should be at the Office of the Government. They were even opposed to restricting the mandate of executives, which means, for example, five years there, that was already promoted by KDU-ČSL. So suddenly - and apart from elections and other governments, nothing else happened - the same movement proposes this. We can all think about it, but I do not want to hear inaccurate information as a Member from the Prime Minister's mouth. I have no doubt that I remember this very well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u41	Thank you. Mr Jurečka, then President Stanjura, then Mr Blažek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u42	Thank you. The subject that I have opened with permission is precisely the issue of the amendment to the Civil Service Act, which is actually an example of how this government would work, or will, God forbid, work in practice. We will write the words in the government's programming statement, promise not only on a program basis, but also in terms of functioning and negotiations we will promise to communicate with the opposition, we will listen to it, but at the moment when such a key amendment of the law is going, no one has talked to any of us. It just goes in there, short term goes to an interdepartment where they don't put much in there, we do it based on how they make it up. This is a typical example, which is why I am saying this here, it concerns 10,000 civil servants in the Czech Republic. Just for the record. Prime Minister, please, what is the key to the way we judge a civil servant? His opinional orientation, his political affiliation, or is expertise the first priority? I've never really considered as a minister in four years whether a clerk has a blue, an orange or another book. And here we are talking about the fact that, for example, Ondřej Závodský at the Ministry of Finance, which had no membership in any political party, has ended. I'd like to hear your argument about why he should have quit, maybe it would have been good if it had been said here. These are the demonstrations where you, on the one hand, say something else, sounds awfully nice, it's nice to read, but unfortunately, at this point, also based on the experience of last year, when the amendment to the Civil Service Act was here and we discussed what to change there, so you did not apply these things during the ANO Resorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u43	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. Then the Minister Pelikán made an electronic application with a factual remark, and then the application for a de facto Mr Blažek remains. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u44	Good afternoon. I'd try to disperse the fog. We're not discussing the service bill today. I could say a lot of things here. I'll just say three sentences. The first proposal was catastrophic from the ČSSD workshop. Then a compromise was accepted, which is acceptable and needs change, but that is all. When the bill is here, let's have a more detailed debate. Let's focus on the main thing - Andrej Babiš is going for the debacle today, so let's get to the debacle and not discuss the service bill that isn't here yet, and the comment procedure isn't over. Once the bill is here, I'm sure we'll have a detailed and sharp political debate. It just doesn't belong here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u45	Thank you. Now a point of fact, Minister Pelikán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u46	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Stanjura almost took it out of my mouth. Please don't overestimate the government. The government doesn't accept laws. The government is proposing them to the House, so everyone here will have plenty of time to discuss each of our proposals regardless of the length of the comment procedure. The House is not a reminder place. [[With a smile.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u47	Thank you. Mr Blažek - now withdraws his comment with a factual remark. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, because he met again for a week with the week, and various political parties are spreading rumors about our movement, because they are probably used to making things up notoriously and have already gotten involved, I would like to repeat the SPD's position on today's vote on the trust of Babiš's minority monochrome government. Our SPD movement will not support the vote on trust in the minority monochrome government of the ANO movement. The YES movement has not yet offered SPD participation in the government, nor has it offered assistance in promoting the key points of our political agenda. The YES movement even from the beginning publicly rejects any government cooperation with the SPD. In our opinion, it is either the fear of Okamura that it will go over their heads or the pressure on Andrej Babiš from the European Union, because his business is dependent on citizens' tax subsidies. We have been clearly saying from the outset that we are willing to compromise the programme and we are constructive because we know that we have ended up with the number of Members in the elections through to the third. All we can still hear from Andrej Babiš is that we unilaterally support his minority government so that Andrej Babiš and his ministers can distribute public billions for the ANO movement only for their personal and party interests. We disagree. Andrej Babiš and his program did not vote for more than 70 percent of the citizens, and it is therefore not acceptable for him to rule alone and not share the influence on state governance. Andrej Babiš is creating an artificial media campaign in this context, where he is artificially in the role that he is the only one who wants to work. It's not true. We in the SPD also want to work for citizens and promote the interests of our voters at government level. We've been saying that since the first moment. And we're not kicking the ankles off other parties here, we're negotiating and we're trying to promote the program. One-sided support for Babiš's minority government, which does not promote even part of the fundamental points of our programme and which we cannot even participate in, would be a great betrayal on our voters. We're not gonna trade our program for a trough, we're not just gonna make a stand for other people's interests. For us, the interest of our constituents comes first, and they want us to promote our program. We will continue to discuss the program patiently. Again, we are willing to compromise the programme. We will promote it, seek support for each of our proposals across the political spectrum in the House, and continue to make constructive policies in the House and support good proposals. We'll see the next development. Above all, we want us to start working for citizens as quickly as possible, for their better lives, to have more money and to feel as safe as possible in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u49	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Stropnický. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that so many of us accentuate the importance of the programme and of clinging to the agenda, sometimes one wonders if the adoption of the party's agenda is, say, opposition is not a condition, I mean the whole programme, the beginning of any more constructive dialogue at all. But if we can catch up, then one side with one giant program that only wants the best for everyone and keeps repeating it. But I didn't want to say that. [[15.00 hours]] I just wanted to distract the impression that's coming out here, and it really reminds me a little bit of a soap opera that maybe the government is running around without trust. I'd like to take a stand. They don't, but they just have to do what they call daily business, and that's a lot of work. The state or the apparatus just can't stop. If he's stopped, and any of you who's been in an executive position knows that very well, it can seriously damage us. The negotiations on the budget in the European Union are already starting for 2020 to 2027, which will affect this country for ten years. It is simply impossible for us not to go to Brussels to act there so that we do not do exactly what you are all calling for, which means that we do not defend our national interests. And the Prime Minister does it first, I do it, other members of the government do it. There is nothing against the law, we are, of course, within the framework of the rules that are firmly established, within these rules we are also trying to manage the state according to our best knowledge and conscience in this transitional and difficult time. Fired officials and various vouchers for some purgatory are simply not true, my friends. They really aren't. If I've replaced the political vice-president, virtually. I didn't replace them with others, so that's my sacred right under the Civil Service Act. [[Time warning]] [[Thank you, Minister.]] I didn't trade a single competent clerk, and I would never do that. Getting a competent clerk into government is quite difficult. It's stupid to fire him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u51	It's hard to interrupt the Minister. With a point of fact, Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u52	In the speech of Minister Stropnický, almost one would cry. The one who sat here with him for four years when he was Secretary of Defense would cry. Yes, Minister, maybe this new government doesn't freak out after today's demise like you didn't, virtually. He did nothing, you in the Ministry of Defence for four years, because in another case, your successor, Minister Šlechtová, wouldn't have dealt with the problem of leaving a contract on her desk to sign for 25 billion Czech crowns. Prime Minister Babiš, is this really the government of experts? This guy who was a paper devil at the Department of Defense, you made him Minister of Foreign Affairs, so he's gonna tell us he was doing something? You know it yourself, Prime Minister Babish, because if you didn't know it, you would have left him in the Ministry of Defense. But since you know he's incompetent, you put Minister Šlechtová there, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u53	I said, anybody else? Mr Bělobrádek is now with priority right. Then, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Michálek Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u54	Mr President, my dear government, my fellow Members, I would like to say that KDU-ČSL was one of the few parties who did not exclude possible government cooperation with the ANO movement. We have some conditions. We respect that the ANO movement has decided that, in the words of its chairman, it does not count us as coalition partners. We respect that, but then they don't make excuses that no one wanted to negotiate with them, that no one wanted to coalition with them. We take it that way, no doubt it's one of the options. However, I think that the Czech Republic needs a majority government, a government that has the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies and will be stable. For this reason, I also believe that the words of Minister Stropnický are not entirely adequate. We were basically the only serious negotiation that we had about what we wanted to complete in the government's programming declaration. That is why the Members here are asking this quite objectively. After all, you have also called for meetings with individual parties to be held in the government's programming declaration. Then don't question the government's programming statement. This is the basic document that the government should follow, and which should also be trusted on its basis, among other things. I'd also like to say that there's a lot missing from KDU-ČSL. There are no real national measures, there are no safety concerns, there are other options. And we're ready to discuss the majority coalition government, we're ready all the time, but at the same time we have some conditions. I think it's normal that it's standard. And you choose either yes or no. If you don't want to be in the coalition with us, that's fine, we respect that, it's up to you. But don't tell me no one wanted it, that there's only one option... And I'm going back to the things that have been said here. In your government programming statement, it is one of the solutions that is democratic, etc. But I believe that this is where the majority government is to be formed. And the fact that you thought it was your belief that there should be a minority government, if you didn't get 30 percent, I don't see any reason. There's no reason for a minority government to be here, let alone a government with minority support. Respectfully, you don't have any support. And I think that this is a serious failure, a managerial failure both by the ANO movement president as a winning party and by the President of the Republic, that he allowed us to stay here at all with this first attempt, which will still be unsuccessful. This was supposed to be a long-term majority government, and it should have worked here long ago, just like it was four years ago. And let me once again call on the ministers who have been asked here to answer them, because the government answers to the House. And if you ignore the questions that have fallen on you here, it is disrespect and contempt for the Chamber of Deputies! And that's what I have to fight strongly against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u55	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Pirates' Club Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I have one more question for the Prime Minister concerning his business history. I read in publicly available information that he used to work as a manager for a state-owned company called Agrofert in 1994, a company owned by Petrimex by the Slovak State. At that time she had assets of about a billion crowns and he worked there as a state manager. Then something happened, actually, it went out, it was owned by some anonymous company that got there against the company's will, it even attacked it with a lawsuit - and, like, six years later, it was discovered that Ing was the 100% owner of the company. Andrej Babiš. So the state manager of the state firm became the owner. That's just when we're talking about whether someone stole someone's company or something like that sounded out of those public statements against a police investigator, I think the Prime Minister should start by explaining the circumstances of how Agrofert acquired, in particular, which was originally owned by the state, and who was actually behind the O.F.I. company. - Ost Finanz und Investment A.G., which was somewhere in Switzerland, some anonymous stock. So far, the Prime Minister has only said that some Swiss classmates owned it, but the public doesn't really know who owned it, so they only know the results. And the result is that the state firm got to the manager of the state firm. I do not want to imply anything, but I would like to know correctly the answer to this question of how the Prime Minister got to it, who specifically owned it. I would just like to conclude by saying that I would very much hate to see the Prime Minister here as the chief state manager of the Czech Republic allow us to wake up in six years and the Czech Republic will belong to someone completely different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u57	Now with the factual remark Pavel Kováčik. I'm sorry, Prime Minister, first Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, if this were not such a serious situation, I would say that I am having a royally good time. All of us, with the exception of the YES movement, have declared here, i.e. all political clubs or parliamentary clubs, all the political parties here have declared that we will not support the government in the first attempt to vote against a vote of confidence. Citizens are watching it, I wouldn't go, but I just get the news. I'm asking you nicely, you don't trust them, you don't want to tell them trust, so let's stop talking, let's vote so the situation can unblock and move on. For example, KDU-ČSL could be a government engagement. I heard President Bělobrádek here, along with you, who spoke directly about it, that they were ready and that they did not vote out as one of the few government co-operations. So let's unblock the situation, let's stop arguing, the citizens are tired of it, we've been elected to put the government together here in some way, and to work here for the benefit of the citizens, please, nicely. I find it inappropriate to say: we will not vote for you, but explain to us how it happened. [[15.10 hours]] Is it, through the President, Mr Michálek, something that would break you, which would lead you to another opinion that you would turn and vote in favour of trust if you were given an explanation of the questions you are asking now? I don't think so. Then all I can say is that this is in a way for citizens at this time of theater. Let's stop playing them and let's vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u59	Thank you. With a factual remark, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u60	I'm sorry, I have to respond to Mr. Michálek's nonsense, and I have to laugh so much. You know, your curse is that why I'm here? Well, because Mečiar and Klaus decided to split Czechoslovakia. No referendum. [[Responses, laughter and applause from the Pirates' desks.]] And, you know, Mr. Michálek, I've always had visions. And you're not telling the truth. That wasn't a state firm. This was a joint stock company where there were Slovak and Czech chemists. You know, I had the vision, and I said, "I'm gonna start this Agrofert." And I founded it in January 1993. And then on April 27, 1995, there was a general meeting where the swordsmen kicked us out. And you know who came in this morning? Boris Vostrý, Coupon buddy. Yes. And we got fired. So study it and don't talk nonsense! Then 60 people went to me and Petrimex went bankrupt. She wasn't a state firm. The stock company. You don't even know the basics, so you better shut up when you don't know anything about it. Yeah? Study it. I invented Agrofert, I started it, and it stood and fell with me. Just like the petrimex. That's how you study it. Don't read the bullshit and the rumors and the dirty stuff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u61	I'll ask you to contact my colleagues through me. Thank you. Mr Svoboda, then Mr Bartoš, then Mr Michálek, then Mr Blažek came forward from his seat again, making it difficult for me. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u62	Have a good day. I would like, Mr President, to respond by your means and address President Kováčik. We're just talking about what's in the programming statement so the citizens can hear. Because otherwise, all they're gonna hear is that the programming statement is great and that they're actually losing a great government. That's why we're talking about it, which is why we want answers. Because this is what our citizens, our voters are listening to, and they must have information about whether the program is good or bad. And since we believe that it is wrong, we allow them to have the opportunity, based on the facts that are being raised here, to draw their own conclusions. This will be important for all of us in all other parliamentary periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u63	Thank you. I beg President Bartoš and then President Michálek. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the role of the opposition is to control the government. We don't perform here for nothing. We have a programme statement here, and we have absolutely valid questions, many of us. I don't like it when it comes to it: don't hold back and wave away! No, because we're watching the Prime Minister's speech in the media, where he's telling some kind of alternate reality this morning about how no one's dealing with him, how good his statement is, how they're all lying, dirty lies, I learned today. So where else, if most of the MPs here don't own the media, doesn't have super PR teams that create reality for the audience as they fit - where else can we ask? So I think that these topics, and since nothing much changes here between the first and second rounds, probably - indeed, this also comes from the Prime Minister's statement - we will ask again. And when the Prime Minister once again says what a super consensual program he has for all parties and how no one is talking about it, we will return to this House meeting and say, "We had these reservations in front of everyone in the House in a stenograph and you didn't answer them." You didn't answer those people, so don't lie to them! Because we're only asking at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u65	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u66	I'm sorry, I really did study that thing. But nowhere in the available resources I could find out who the people were who gave you for the O.F.I. company. - Ost Finanz und Investment transferred the Agrofert. So if you direct me to any sources where you said it publicly, I'd like to look into it. So far, I've only tracked down your Swiss classmates. If you say the specific names of who owned it, of course, you will answer the question. But so far, you've just been fogging around here. And that's really not enough for us. As far as you're concerned, Petrimex probably didn't really love you when she sued you. To Agrofert because of the takeover that took place. And I think that's another thing that should be explained. So, Prime Minister, it would be good for you to answer those reservations and questions. That's why we have the Chamber of Deputies meeting. You came to us with the idea of running the government. And by the right of the opposition, even her duty is to ask questions. So please, let's stick to this culture of parliamentary democracy. And if you haven't done anything wrong, you have nothing to worry about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. Just a reaction to my colleague Kováčik. Me always from such sentences as "don't talk too much and let's vote!" My youth breathes. It was still quiet for work, and especially don't talk too much and calm for work, and then it turned out with this quiet work as it turned out. So I'm going to respond to two quotes, and now I'm saying it out of my head, they're probably not exactly accurate, from the history of the Communist party. The first one is from March 1968, when censorship was abolished. There was such a meeting at the time, and they were actually celebrating the fact that they could finally talk - that's what doesn't seem to like here. And writer Jan Procházka, who probably said this sentence: "My parents didn't teach us how to talk so we wouldn't talk! So I respond this way. So they taught us to talk, so we talk. And the other is the situation in Moscow, where they interned in August 1968 by the party's leadership - not the state. Then that delegation with Ludvík Svoboda came there and he shouted at them hysterically, "You've been babbling for so long, you've put it in this situation! And do you know what the result was that they weren't already babbling? No collaboration, normalization and peace of mind. So we'll talk!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u69	I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. In fact, Mr. Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u70	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I am only for the tapestry and, if necessary, for those who are watching the meeting from the outside, because, on the one hand, the Prime Minister and some ministers have responded to some questions both my colleagues and mine. However, I have expressed my wish if they could comment on the subject relating to the rule of law, the predictability of the law of the Czech Republic and the stability of the legal environment in the Czech Republic, which may be important not only for our citizens but also for foreign investors: whether the government is willing to support matters that are retrospectively entering into not only the laws but also the concluded treaties. So if ministers can express themselves, as I have named - the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Culture. I just want to know if they intend to express themselves and answer the questions I raised last week or not. That's all I'd like to know, some answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u71	I'll ask the secretary to wait. There is indeed President Kováčik, then Minister Stropnický and then Minister Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Blažek is one of the scholars of history, and I compliment him, bowing down to him. However, he sometimes manages to flatten a little bit, turn black and white. I'm going to remind you that Prime Minister Topolánek spoke very often about the blabbermouth and the peace of mind in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u73	Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, I have been thinking quite intensively about responding to what has been said out of the mouth of Mrs Černochová, by your means, Mr President. I'm not entirely convinced that I'm going to say a few sentences here in the end, because I'm probably just going to dial out some spiral of other invectives and insults, and I certainly wouldn't like to make your colleague cry, but I think she's capable of getting into some emotion at the slightest cause. I think it's better to keep a slightly cooler head. My conscience is clear at the Ministry of Defense. Of course, something will do more, something less. But let's ask where those people are working on that defense, virtually. Let's ask the soldiers, let's ask their commanders, let's ask the soldiers on missions, etc. How many billions have we signed there, Madam through the President, you have not, in some way, given that. It wasn't the fact that projects were being prepared there when I came in. But still, believe me, I can think of basically the only one, and that's a certain famous quote: Don't be angry with them because they don't know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u75	Please, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already been asked three times to comment on the proposal of a group of Members on church institutions, so I will make it look like I am ashamed of my opinion. Yes, we discussed this proposal. It is not a government proposal, but a proposal from a group of Members. And it never really fell, Mr Benda, if I recall that it was your remark that the land was overpriced by 50 or even 59 billion, a number like that was said a moment ago. But if the proposal for taxation of refunds is to be discussed, i.e. financial compensation, i.e., the amounts that are paid because it was not actually possible to return the actual real estate, as well as the Minister of Finance and the guardian of the register, of course, I will lean towards it. [[to]] This is not a retroactive intervention, but a taxation of future compensation, and it will bring roughly, if I remember correctly, about 400 miles into the state register. Crowns. Of course, we have been debating the government, and this is a very important constitutional dimension of this proposal, because it is absolutely essential, and we have the opinion of the Legal Council of the Government, which is positive. So it was crucial to me why I raised my hand for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u77	Thank you. I beg Mr Ferjenčík, after him President Stanjura and then Mrs Černochová, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor. I, through Mr President, regret that my colleague Kováčik, as a communist, is actually a spokesperson for the oligarchy. I find that rather absurd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u79	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u80	So unfortunately, the former failed defense minister is not present. I'm sorry, but unfortunately, it was his choice that, as usual, he whined at the microphone, insulted my colleague and left heroically. [[Minister Stropnický is coming into the hall.]] Minister Stropnický, shame on you. Shame on you. You don't need such attacks. My colleague didn't want to cry. If you don't understand the irony, I'll write it down. Sometimes you can't hear the quotes. When you were so successful... I have heard here many times - now I forgive myself, I do not have as good a performance as Minister Stropnický: What do you still have? I mean, these guys, ask them, these guys like me. So, madam, what do you still have around the army? [[He's trying to play.]] - Ask these guys. [[There's laughter and applause from the right.]] That's right. If Minister Stropnickýý were so successful, he would continue his duties. The Minister of Defence is a prestigious position and a successful minister, if the same government is, he continues. I don't know if he wanted to or couldn't. It's really simple. And we're reading the new Madam Secretary's statement - I have to check what he left for me. If it were another party, if the opposition came after another government, I would understand. You were just scared, even though those guys like you so much to buy them something. And you left the signature to someone else. And now you're gonna tell us - I can see it when we talk about Dublin... What's with the foreign policy? I mean, we understand each other...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u81	Mrs Černochová is withdrawing, so if there are no more applications, I am ending the debate. I'll ask the Prime Minister if he wants the final word. He doesn't. In that case, since it is customary for the President of the House to direct the vote on trust to the Government, I shall pass the proceedings on to the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u82	We didn't exactly expect to take turns that fast. Now we come to the procedure under Section 85 of the Rules of Procedure, which is not so common in this House, so please. According to Article 85 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the Government by name on a motion for trust. In order to adopt a resolution on the government's vote of confidence, an absolute majority of Members present are required to agree. I will now ask, in addition to keeping calm in the hall, the responsible verifiers of the meetings, which are Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Member Miroslav Kalousek, to take their seats at the rapporteur's table, and we will proceed according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw up the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. Tickets with the names of Members have been checked, I presume. [[Mr Kalousek bears the President's names to draw, President Vondráček draws lots.]] And that name is Roman Kubíček. I was the first person to draw the winnings for Mr. Roman Kubíček. Furthermore, I recall pursuant to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure that the requested Member shall either say 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." A different speech by the Member shall be regarded as a delay in voting. I ask that each of the invited Members give their position loud enough so that I can repeat it to the microphone in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I will bring forward a motion for a resolution which is not difficult and is: 'The Chamber of Deputies has expressed confidence in the government'. And now I'm gonna call you if anyone can get me an alphabetical list. [[It's happening.]] Excellent. Mr Roman Kubíček: For a proposal. Mr Jan Kubík: For a proposal. Mr Martin Kupka: Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Kytýr: For a proposal. [[15.30 hours]] Mrs Helena Langšádlová: Against the proposal. Mrs Jana Levová: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Lipavský: Against the proposal. Mr Leo Luzar: Against the proposal. Mrs Majerová Zahradníčková. [[Attention from the diaper.]] Sorry. I'm sorry. Zahradníková. I'm gonna ask you one more time. Against the proposal. Mrs Taťána Malá: Proposition. Mr Přemysl Mališ: For a proposal. Mr Tomáš Martínek: Against the proposal. Mr Jaroslav Martinů: Against the proposal. Mrs Karla Maříková: Against the proposal. Member Jiří Mašek: For a proposal. Mrs Květa Matušovská: Against the proposal. Mrs Eva Matyášová: For the proposal. Mrs Ilona Mauritzová: Against the proposal. Mrs Radka Maxová: For the proposal. Mrs Marcela Melková: For the proposal. Mr Jiří Mihola: Against the proposal. Member Jakub Michálek. [[The MP answered sitting.]] Please rise. [[The MP rose and repeated the answer.]] Against the proposal. Mr Vojtěch Munzar: Against the proposal. Mr Patrik Nacher: For a proposal. Mrs Miroslava Němcová: Against the proposal. Mrs Ivana Nevludová: Against the proposal. Mr Marek Novák: For a proposal. Mrs Monika Oborná: For the proposal. Mr Tomio Okamura: Against the proposal. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk: For a proposal. Mr Roman Onderka: Against the proposal. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček: Against the proposal. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová: For the proposal. Mrs Jana Pastuchová: For the proposal. Mr Petr Pávek: Against the proposal. Mr Daniel Pawlas: Against the proposal. Mrs Pekarová Adamová: Against the proposal. Mr Mikuláš Peksa: Against the proposal. Mr Robert Pelikán: For a proposal. Mr.František Petrtýl: For a proposal. Mr Vojtěch Pikal: Apparently he is not present. Mr Pavel Plzák: For a proposal. Mr Zdeněk Podal: Against the proposal. Mr Ivo Pojezný: Against the proposal. Mr Ondřej Polanský: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Pošvář: Against the proposal. Mr Milan Pour: Proposition. Mr David Pražák: For a proposal. Mr Ondřej Profant: Against the proposal. Mrs Věra Procházková: For the proposal. Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský: For a proposal. Mr Karel Rais: For a proposal. Mr. Vít Rakušan: Against the proposal. Member Michal Ratiborský: For a proposal. Mr Jan Richter: For a proposal. Mrs Olga Richterová: Against the proposal. Mr Miloslav Rozner: Against the proposal. Mr Radek Rozvoral: Against the proposal. Mrs Miloslava Rutová: For the proposal. Mr Pavel Růžička: For a proposal. Mr Jan Řehounek: For a proposal. Mr Petr Sadovský: For a proposal. Mr Jan Schiller: For a proposal. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Skopeček: Against the proposal. Mr Bohuslav Sobotka: Against the proposal. Mr Antonín Staněk: Not present. Mr Pavel Staněk: For a proposal. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura: Against the proposal. Mr Martin Stropnický: For a proposal. Member Jiří Strýček: For a proposal. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda: Against the proposal. Mrs Lucie Šafránková: Against the proposal. Mrs Karla Šlechtová: For the proposal. Mr Lubomír Španěl: Against the proposal. Mr Julius Špičák: For a proposal. Mr David Štolpa: For a proposal. Mr Dan Ťok: For a proposal. Member Petr Třešňák: Against the proposal. Mr Karel Tureček: For a proposal. Mr František Vácha: Against the proposal. Mrs Kateřina Valachová: Against the proposal. Mr Vlastimil Válek: Excused. Mr Jiří Valenta: Against the proposal. [[15.40 hours]] Mrs Helena Válková: For the proposal. Mr Jiří Ventruba: Against the proposal. Mr Ondřej Veselý: Against the proposal. Mr Radovan Vích: Against the proposal. Mrs Jana Vildumetzová: For the proposal. Mr Adam Vojtěch: For a proposal. Mr Jan Volný: For a proposal. Mr Lubomír Volný: Against the proposal. Mr Radek Vondráček: For a proposal. I'm really going to repeat it twice: for the proposal. Mr Ivo Vondrák: For a proposal. Mrs Miloslava Vostrá: Against the proposal. Member Petr Vrána: For a proposal. Mrs Veronika Vrecionová: Against the proposal. Mr Marek Výborný: Against the proposal. Mr Tomáš Vy Vymazal: Against the proposal. Mr Rostislav Vyzula: For a proposal. Mr Jan zahradník: Against the proposal. Mr Lubomír Zaorálek: Against the proposal. Mr Radek Zlesák: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Žáček: Against the proposal. Member Ivan Adamec: Against the proposal. Mrs Věra Adámková: For the proposal. Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová: Against the proposal. Mr. Andrej Babiš: Proposition. Mrs Andrea Babišová: For a proposal. Mrs Margita Balaštíková: For the proposal. Mrs Dana Balcarová: přítomný. Mr Lukáš Bartoň: Against the proposal. Mr Ivan Bartoš: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Bartošek: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Bauer: Against the proposal. Mr Martin Baxa: Against the proposal. Mr Jiří Běhounek: Against the proposal. Mr Petr Beitl: Against the proposal. Mr Josef Bělica: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek: Against the proposal. Mr Marek Benda: Against the proposal. Mr Ondřej Benešík: Against the proposal. Mr Stanislav Berkovec: For a proposal. Mr Jan Birke: Against the proposal. Mr Stanislav Blaha: Against the proposal. Mr Jiří Bláha: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Blažek: Against the proposal. Mr Marian Bojko: Against the proposal. Member Richard Brabec: For a proposal. Mr Milan Brázdil: For a proposal. Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá: For the proposal. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch: For a proposal. Mr Lukáš Černohorský: Against the proposal. Mrs Jana Černochová: Against the proposal. Mr Alexander Černý: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Čižinský: Against the proposal. Member Jiří Dolejš: Against the proposal. Mr Petr Dolínek: Against the proposal. Mrs Klára Dostálová: For the proposal. Ms Lenka Dražilová: For the proposal. Member Jaroslav Dvořák: Against the proposal. Mr.František Elfmark: Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Faltýnek: For a proposal. Mr Kamal Farhan: For a proposal. Mr Jan Farský: Against the proposal. Mr Milan Feranec: For a proposal. Mr Dominik Feri: Against the proposal. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík: Against the proposal. Mr Petr Fiala: Against the proposal. Mr Radim Fiala: Against the proposal. Mrs Eva Fialová: For the proposal. Mr Vojtěch Filip: Against the proposal. Member Jaroslav Foldyna: Against the proposal. Mr Stanislav Fridrich: For a proposal. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková: Against the proposal. Mr Petr Gazdík: Against the proposal. Mrs Pavla Golasowská: Against the proposal. Mr Miroslav Grebeníček: Against the proposal. Mr Stanislav Grospič: Against the proposal. Josef Hájek: For a proposal. Mr Jan Hamáček: Against the proposal. Mr Tomáš Hanzel: Against the proposal. Mr. Milan Hnilička: For a proposal. Member Jaroslav Holík: Against the proposal. [[15.50 hours]] Mr Radek Holomčík: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Hrnčíř: Against the proposal. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová: Against the proposal. Mr Milan chovanec: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Chvojka: Against the proposal. Member Ivan Jáč: For a proposal. Mr Jakub Janda: Against the proposal. Mr Miloslav Janulík: For a proposal. Mrs Monika Jarošová: Against the proposal. Mr Pavel Jelínek: Not present. Mr Martin Jiránek: Against the proposal. Member Aleš Juchelka: For a proposal. Mr Stanislav Juránek: Against the proposal. Mr Marian Jurečka: Against the proposal. Mr Pavel Juříček: For a proposal. Mr Adam Kalous: For a proposal. Mr Miroslav Kalousek: Against the proposal. Mr Vít Kaňkovský: Against the proposal. Mr David Kasal: For a proposal. Mr Václav Klaus: Against the proposal. Mr Jiří Kobza: Against the proposal. Mr Jiří Kohoutek: Against the proposal. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek: For a proposal. Mr Lukáš Kolářík: Against the proposal. Mr Martin Kolovratník: For a proposal. Mr Vladimír Koníček: Against the proposal. Mr František Kopřiva: Against the proposal. Mrs Barbora Kořanová: For the proposal. Mr Radek Koten: Against the proposal. Mr Josef Kott: For a proposal. Mr Pavel Kováčik: Against the proposal. Mrs Věra Kovářová: Against the proposal. Mrs Lenka Kozlová: Against the proposal. Member Robert králíček: For a proposal. Mr Karel Krejza: Against the proposal. Mrs Jana Krutáková: Absent. By this I have read the alphabetical list, with Mr. Vojtěch Pikal entering the hall after the vote, who has the right... we haven't finished the vote yet, so I'm asking... Mr Vojtěch Pikal: Against the proposal. Now, let me clean up a little bit here... I'm of the opinion that the vote is over. I ask whether all Members present have been read or whether there are any doubts about the course of the vote as dictated on the microphone. If not, I will ask the verifier what time is necessary to process the results and determine the results of the vote. It's 15.55. Please, Mr. verifier, how much time do they think to evaluate the vote? [[Member Kalousek: Quarter of an hour.]] Quarter of an hour. So I'm interrupting negotiations until 16.10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the adjourned 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll ask you to settle in your seats and keep your voice down. I will use the moments before you settle in your seats, and I will read Mr Vlastimil Válek's apology, who apologizes for work reasons, and now they have presented an apology to me. I'd like to speak to one of the verifiers. He's Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u84	Mr President, honourable Members, there were 195 Members in the vote, five were absent, no votes were taken. The necessary quorum for the adoption of proposal 101, 78 Members voted in favour, 117 Members voted against the proposal. The Chamber of Deputies did not express confidence in the government of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-16-ps2017-005-02-001-001.u85	Thank you, Mr. verifier. In the event that five Members did not participate, the quorum was probably slightly lower than 101, 98 but it does not change the outcome. [[Clues from the O.R.: 98.]] Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the Chamber of Deputies has refused to express confidence in the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Section 85 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I shall notify the President of the Rules of Procedure without undue delay. I end the point, which was the trust of the government of the Czech Republic. It was the only point included in this 5th meeting. There has also been an interpelation point, but I do not believe that today is Thursday and that the agreement of the club presidents is that we will end this meeting, so there is no need to exclude this item from the agenda by a special vote. I am ending this fifth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, I tell you that, under the agreement of the Gremium, the Presidents of the House of Deputies and the House of Deputies, we will continue the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which begins tomorrow, Wednesday 17. One, nine o'clock. Thank you.
