ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u1	160. Report on the performance of financial market surveillance in 2017 /German press 226/ - first reading This report was submitted by the Czech National Bank in accordance with Act No.6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 226/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Karel Rais, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u2	Good day again. I have here the resolution of the budget committee of the 11th meeting of 5 September 2018 on the report by the Czech National Bank on financial market supervision in 2017, House press 226. Following the opening words of Mr Belling's representative of the Czech National Bank, pan RaisBelling report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. Notes the Czech National Bank Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2017; II. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2017.'; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies - which I have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u3	I thank you and initiate a general debate. I'll ask the governor for an opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report we are presenting to the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and the Government on the performance of financial market supervision contains an overview of the main changes to the regulatory framework of both the Czech and European financial markets, discusses the self-performance of supervision of individual sectors of the domestic financial market and also informs the CNB of its involvement in the work of European supervisory authorities and international institutions. It also informs about the development of key financial market sectors. As far as the domestic banking sector is concerned, it was assessed as healthy, well-equipped, profitable and with sufficient resources in 2017. The total capital ratio of banks operating in the Czech Republic reached 19.3% by the end of 2017, the net profit of bank entities slightly increased to 75.5 billion. Crowns. The balance sheet total of the sector exceeded 7 beats. Crowns. The positive trend for improving the quality of the credit portfolio of domestic banks also continued. Share of so-called non-executive loans for total end-of-year client loans amounted to 4 %. This indicator was one of the EU countries with the lowest share of these bad or inefficient loans. The CNB supervised 23 domestic banks, including five construction savings banks and ten credit unions. To a limited extent, we also supervised 24 branches of foreign banks established on our market. A total of 16 control investigations were carried out in credit institutions. The insurance market could be considered to be relatively stable, the total assets of domestic insurance companies, including foreign branches, increased year on year by 4.4 % to 486 billion. The profit of the sector after tax was 10.9 billion. Gross premiums written slightly increased by 2.1 % to 151.4 billion. Crowns. Domestic insurance companies showed solid capital adequacy. Under the regulatory regime Solvency II, 26 domestic insurance companies were supervised and to a limited extent over 22 branches of foreign insurance companies. 14 inspections were carried out in insurance companies or insurance companies. branches of foreign insurance companies. As regards the capital market, the CNB supervised 8 pension companies, 28 participating and 8 transformed funds under these companies, and 33 entities authorised to operate as a securities trader, 29 investment companies, 123 investment funds with legal personality and 227 mutual funds without legal personality. The CNB also supervised the holder of the permit for the operation of the exchanger. In this segment it carried out a total of 37 checks, respectively. 457 local investigations. It also carried out supervision of other small entities of the financial market, i.e. payment institutions, institutions and e-money issuers, small-scale payment service providers, investment and insurance intermediaries and finally intermediaries and consumer credit providers. We have also used our supervisory capacities to monitor compliance with the obligations laid down by the Consumer Protection Act. As far as regulation is concerned, the CNB's share may be reported, i.e. to prepare an amendment to the Act on Banks, amendments to the Act on Recovery Procedures and Resolution of the Crisis in the Financial Market or to issue an implementing decree to the amendment to the Act on Capital Market Business. In the field of international cooperation, the CNB actively participated in the activities of European and international institutions active in the field of financial market regulation and supervision. In this context, the activities within EBA's European Supervisory Authorities for Banking, ESMA for the Capital Market and EBA for insurance and pension funds were particularly significant. We also participated in the work of the European Systemic Risk Board, the ESRB. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u5	Thank you, Mr. Governor. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the general debate. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. All we have to do is sign up from the scene, let's not complicate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u6	Mr President, Mr Governor, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, the words of the Governor have provoked me to speak, I think, in a good way provoked, the CNB's supervision of credit providers. As we have seen in the past, many non-bank money institutions have been impersonating banks and offering credit products. The Czech National Bank has clearly intervened and set clear criteria for the non-banking sector and the functioning of the credit market. Unfortunately, we are now witnessing exactly the opposite. Today we are witnessing when we are swamped and our citizens are swamped by advertisements offering financial products, usually easily obtained micro-credits, loans, and possibly. borrowing small sums and resources, so-called citizens lend to citizens. So called, as if any subject s. r. o. borrows and sets up such quick operational and clear advantages for citizens. Only then are we ever confronted with the fact that it isn't really some unknown institution, and it is usually mediated through some big bank, or the bank is in the background, or this bank is hiding. And then you'll learn in some of the written materials that it's actually her product that she's offering here, like, to be unidentifiable at first. [[15.20 hours]] I therefore ask whether the CNB records these efforts by various financial institutions as if to hide in the background and offer its financial product through its own - and now I do not know whether subsidiaries called otherwise, or only influentially controlled companies s. r. o. etc. And here I can point out some of those - and now I'm not going to say the names of these products here, but I think we're all watching financial ads, and we know the passwords: zebra, citizen lending to a citizen, etc., who appear in advertising to attract citizens. So I ask whether the Czech National Bank is following this here and whether it is ethical from those parent banks, that they are hiding behind these entities that offer citizens light, simple and fast loans, albeit in small letters, that this advertising is not an offer within the meaning of the law, but that it is subject to various other criteria. This is what I'd like to know, because it's about big banks. But then quite large financial groups, business groups, are operating on the market today. It's these huge internet stuff. I don't want to name it again so I don't get into any confrontation with GDPR etc. Or to not be accused of profiling or advertising someone. But they offer the possibility of credit financing the purchase of their products, they offer the possibility of simple financing from the point of view: you don't have to pay anything, now you get it, after signing the contract you pay us monthly, after a year we take it back from you, you get it immediately a new model of the product, and now it can be from electronics to cars, and thanks to that you always pay material or goods you have - we take it after a year from you or two, we then sell it, we live about the difference between the prices at which we then offer it. But there are criteria that you have to meet to let you into this system that we have determined. And I'm wondering if anyone has the authority and the ability to control the conditions under which these companies select the particular individuals or companies they provide. In other words, if there is a supervisory authority that would be able to challenge the company ABC and say: present to us your criteria on which you choose those who apply to this product. Here are the things that are developing quite strongly in our market. We are now witnessing today and daily, unfortunately, as part of the emergence of some modern technologies that had global revelations 14 days ago, and the Internet and especially the media are swamped by advertising of this type, and no one really knows what criteria this loan is being granted on, no one can say in advance: these criteria meet, do not meet these criteria, therefore they do not seek to do so. In my opinion, it is hidden lending, there are also pretty strict interest terms, if you do not meet any of the conditions that you pay monthly etc. So here we are developing another sector of possible future execution problems, which may arise without, in my opinion, sufficient objective control. But I will be very happy to be misled by the fact that the Czech National Bank and these forms of indirect lending, lending through goods, controls and records, and that it has oversight over these large companies. Because today we're probably talking about tens, hundreds of millions, if not billions of crowns, which in this business with the goods borrowed, rented or possibly. bought back for buying new ones, working and spinning in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u7	Thank you. I just want to set the record straight: Mr. Bžoch - I have read his apology, but it was not for today, it is up to 1. 11th, due to a foreign trip. Mr Kobza also canceled his apology from today, he is present. The Governor has an interest in responding, and I hereby give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear House, I may not be able to answer the honourable Member in a satisfactory manner, because, of course, the wide range of the various activities which somehow benefit from credit relations is enormous and not all of these matters are subject to written regulation, and therefore we are certainly not in charge of them. even this part of the financial market cannot be seen to be perfect. As far as I know, the vast majority of companies that use loans in some way to sell e.g. consumer goods, whether through some of their own financial channels, or in some kind of cooperation with non-banking or banking credit institutions, all those firms must at least have mandatory registration in terms of providing consumer credit. They must therefore meet certain conditions. Of course, these are not unattainable conditions, but they must have some system of qualification for those workers, those workers should go through some training, have some certification, etc., generally speaking. I am, of course, prepared to answer specific subjects that will be delivered to me by the Member, but I cannot answer you in general here at the moment. We certainly do not know all things, we have limited capacity and, of course, we are able to monitor only part of the market, but we are receiving various incentives. But as I say, we oversee what is regulated by law. And, yes, there are areas that are not strictly regulated, and that is where our supervisory powers do not extend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u9	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Mr Nacher, then Mr Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to subpoena the governor here. I do not understand the questions, I must say, Mr Luzar, because since 1 December 2016, we have here a new law on consumer credit, which regulates the market very strictly, very strictly. It gives the Czech National Bank greater powers. The registration has already been mentioned here. If you look at the CNB website, you can see who can actually provide loans today. It's not the tens of thousands of companies anymore, but there are already, I guess, now maybe the governor will fix me, I don't know, there were 107 of them, I remember. From the results, when you look at loans in default, according to solus, we've been doing our best in the last ten years, respectively. ever since the beginning of the measurement. And if we look at the default on mortgages, that's where we're best off in Europe. So I would rather point to whether, on the basis of what has been said here, our financial sector is the healthiest, the most profitable on the one hand, the defaults are the lowest on the other hand, but mortgage interest rates are rising, as has been said, also, so if, on the other hand, in contrast to what my fellow Member said, if the rigour does not correspond, it is not in disproportion with these figures. I'd rather ask the question in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Governor. I'm sure I'd be happy to turn to you with specific things later. But I will respond to my colleague Nacher on that matter of where I was headed with my question. [[15.30 hours]] The question I was heading to was a simple question. There are systems that give you when you ask for a service such as credit somewhere or somewhere. to the goods exchange system, you fill in some basic information, you submit your data, how much income you have, how many children you have, where you live and all the things these institutions ask for, and you get a yes or no answer. If you ask why not, they'll say this is a non-public figure, we won't share it with you. I ask, is there any supervision of the financial arbiter, the Czech National Bank or anyone over these institutions, how does this client selection system work? What is the evaluation criterion that the customer cannot receive? Is there any supervision to avoid any unfair practices and other matters of these financial institutions? That is the first question in this matter. And the second question is whether it's in the system, now I don't know, ethical or legal possibility that a large bank house that wants to provide loans will create a s.r.o., it will call it an elephant and the slon will say: citizens lend to citizens, we lend to you as citizens, we somehow collect it, and we lend it to you at advantageous interest, such ads run, and then you find that it's not an Slon, but Slon it is some big bank that just felt the need that its name is probably not well known or does not want to be associated, and it offers it as that someone completely unknown, new to the market has found a gap and breaks through. I consider this to be the unethical behaviour of these banks. And historically, we've experienced exactly the opposite of when non-banks were pretending to be banks, and that's what you've hit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u13	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Good afternoon, ma'am and gentlemen. We will continue with Mr Patrik Nacher's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know where my colleague is going right now. I'd like to answer him myself. If he's interested in where a citizen can learn about his credit history, he can use credit registers where he can look at it individually today, they don't have to look at it anymore, and they can't just look at financial institutions. I mean BRKI, NRKI, Solus, you can do it remotely, and there everyone will find out where they borrowed, where they are in default, where they owe after maturity, etc. He has all the information the bank has. In other words, if the financial institution doesn't want to give him something, he can find it himself, if I understand. Otherwise, as the Governor said, the loaner must be registered with the Czech National Bank. He even has to have, if I remember correctly, 20 million capital. That's just what the new law says. So now I don't know what kind of eservoirs and some side-products banks are talking about. And no one here will suspect that I am a bank advocate in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanjura is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u16	I'm sorry, but sometimes the debate is preposterous. I'm gonna ask for a loan and I'm not gonna get it. That's right, that's perfectly normal. The borrower tests the client and decides yes or no. There is no human right to borrow. Then we're going to settle the insolvency law here tomorrow, and the same people are going to say that we're supposed to help debtors and debt them who didn't hear no, but they heard yes when they wanted to borrow money. Then we have to be a little consistent with the argument. In my opinion, if an individual or a company doesn't lend a financial institution to it, it's for economic reasons. It's not an unfair contest, a conjecture. They want to borrow! They make money paying interest. It's in their interest. But if he evaluates that the client or the firm is at risk, and you know that the Czech National Bank also monitors risky loans, they just won't provide it. And if they tell him a reason like that or something, I think it's often better if he just finds out that they don't, rather than tell him the details why they don't. That's just how it works. And I don't understand how to call the debate after whether the Czech National Bank is able to force banks to tell clients that they won't give credit, why. How would it be controlled? It would only be formal and completely unnecessary. And about the Elephant S. r. o. A colleague has already taken that away from me. I volunteered before he got out. Let's have some real time with the knowledge of things. It's not like somebody's gonna take the crown today, start a s.r.o. and run a credit business tomorrow. Nothing like that is possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I would like to make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Ondřej Polanský from 15 to 16 o'clock on health grounds, between 17 and 20 o'clock on account of negotiations in the electoral region Patrik Nacher and Mr Julius Špičák between 15.15 and 19.00 for working reasons. So far it's been the last application for a debate, which is all I have. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I said, is there any interest in final words? If not, then I will only ask the rapporteur to recall the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which was read in the debate so that we can vote on it. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u18	We could conclude with this argument that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-003-160.u19	Thank you. This is a motion for a resolution. I'm gonna make sure those outside the O.R. have a chance to vote. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The motion for a resolution by the rapporteur, which he repeated to you, will be voted in the 187 vote that I have just launched, and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 187 out of 137 present 135 in favour. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. Thank you to the Governor, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 160. The next item will be point number
