ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u1	22. Members of Patrik Nacher's proposal, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Martin Kolovratník, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on sales time in retail and wholesale /house print 200/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 The petitioners suggest that we proceed according to § 90 para. 2. President of the Social Democracy Club, Mr Chvojka. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good afternoon. I would like to make it clear to you that we are vetoing this, or I am vetoing on behalf of two ČSSD and KSČM Members' Clubs discussing this press in the 90s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u3	Okay, thank you. Therefore, we will proceed in accordance with § 90 para. 5 and 6. And I'll repeat that we have press number 200 in front of us. President Michálek claims priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman. After that, I'd like to start a normal negotiation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to add that on behalf of the Pirates Club, KDU and TOP 09, we're joining the veto of the 90th draft hearing. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u5	Okay, thank you. We therefore have two vetoes in the short-term negotiations. Therefore, Article 90 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty does not apply. We can't use two. I repeat, therefore, that the Government's position on press 200 has been delivered as the House's press 200/1. I will now ask Mr Patrik Nacher to come to the rapporteur's table as a representative of the appellants, and I will also ask Mrs Helena Langšádlová to take her place at the rapporteur's table as rapporteur for first reading. At the same time, I will ask the House for peace so that Mr Nacher can speak his opening words on this press. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, I would like to present House press number 200 - the amendment to the Sales Time Act, respectively. an amendment to the law. So I originally thought that I would defend the position here, why we designed it and what reason it is to be discussed on the basis of Section 90. Well, now it's completely pointless, but I'm gonna say the reason here anyway. So it is not a time perspective, but colleagues, it is because the proposal is intended to exclude from the scope of the law, which actually closes listed shops, retail and wholesale on the seven holidays. And the reason why we suggested that it be in a short trial is so that the law, when it is already open, does not appeal to the law, expand both in that direction, so that the holidays are canceled en bloc, and vice versa, by being extended. That means it was purely about the wholesalers. And why the wholesalers? One of the reasons they said it was supposed to be closed on the holidays was because they were supposed to be families with their branches and not go shopping. Well, first of all, I don't think the state is supposed to interfere with this, but obviously there's no will in the Chamber of Deputies to throw it all out. However, this does not apply to wholesalers. There basically goes shopping for other entrepreneurs or businessmen, as follows from the description of what is wholesale, from the trade law. That means this reason is falling. The second most common reason was employee protection. So here I would choose the context that we have here again, and that is, we live here today at a time when we have less than friction unemployment here. This is the natural unemployment that is the lowest in Europe. I don't think any employer can afford to hire employees, high-quality employees nowadays, force or blackmail that if they don't go to work on holidays, they're gonna get fired. On the contrary. I got a whole series of e-mails. All the employees can make a deal with that supervisor themselves. They don't need someone to handle it for them. Some even wrote that they like to make extra money. Some people are alone at Christmas, so they don't want to be home alone, they want to be there. It's just the fates of life are out of bounds. And I don't think that just politicians and the state should inerge here and say who's ever supposed to go to work and when they don't. But basically, this is basic logic. We are, and I don't know how it came to be here in the past period - so the limit of the sales area of 200 square meters was chosen. Why 200 meters? Why not 250, 300 etc.? I understand that these are some smaller establishments where family members seem to be selling. And it is these small establishments that have to buy somewhere. And most of the time, they're pulling it off the wholesalers. Gastronomy facilities, restaurants etc. - they're all stocking up on the wholesalers. In other words, the proposal is actually simple. He's actually cutting the word wholesale out of the sales time bill. Retail isn't gonna touch it at all. The point is that those who have the right to be open should have a source of supply. Seems pretty logical to me. And I'm just sorry that the MPs, four even, took advantage of the veto law. So many opening words and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u7	I thank Mr Nacher and ask the rapporteur for her first reading, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, for her news report. Before I give you my word, my colleague, I again ask the House for peace of mind. If you are having a discussion other than the topic of retail selling time, please in the foyer. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, as of 1 October 2016, we have here an adjustment to the selling time in retail and wholesale shops and a ban on the selling time on the holidays listed and restrictions on the selling time on Christmas Eve. This is reality. A colleague here has already said what is involved in the regulation that we are discussing at the moment. These are wholesalers. But I have to admit that from the very beginning of this law I feel that logic is really hard to find in it. [[17,00 hours]] What was the result of our legislation means that in some days, such as 8. 5., we have closed large stores, 1. 5. No, and I could go on like this. I am convinced for myself that the adjustment that has been adopted here is very unfortunate, it is wrong, I do not see logic there. At this point, even this amendment that we are discussing cannot fix it, that is, removing wholesalers from the law. I am convinced that this may only be an opportunity for many of us to initiate the abolition of the law itself, although, of course, I must appreciate the petitioners for having some good will to correct some consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. Have a good afternoon. I am opening a general debate. With priority rights, President Kalousek and President Stanjura are entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are looking for any logic in this proposal, we are committing ourselves to seeking logic in an overall illogical clause. The TOP 09 MEP has joined the veto to make amendments and will not vote in favour of rejecting this proposal at first reading if someone has proposed it, for one reason only, so that we can submit an amendment at second reading to abolish the entire sales time limitation law at some public holidays. By coincidence, we have today tabled a draft amendment to the law that would abolish this provision. But if it were possible to do so in the second reading of this law, it would be much faster and we would be much happier. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Czech Republic in 2018, we have fourteen public holidays between the days to which work leave is tied. And at seven of the fourteen, there's a ban on sales on an area greater than 200 metres. Seven out of fourteen. Neither the proponents of this proposal nor his defense attorneys can explain why November 17th can be opened and October 28th can not. Why must it be closed on svatý Václav, but svatý Cyril a Metoděj can be opened? As you can see, this law establishes not only the inequality between entrepreneurs but even the inequality between saints. [[Glee in the hall.]] Without anyone ever being able to explain it to me. [[With a smile.]] Of course, the inequality between entrepreneurs is also given by the 200 meters that somebody just sucked out of their finger. If I have 195 meters, I can open, and I can't open at 210, although I've never read the commandments anywhere, you'll be a holiday day above 200 meters of sales space. Then I'd understand if it was postulated somewhere, but in this case, I don't get it. It just didn't work out. It restricts businessmen completely for nothing. It's annoying all the people, it's messy. So let's face it, it didn't work out. Let's cancel. Yes, I confess, I'm one of those who doesn't go shopping on public holidays, I'm just experiencing them differently. But I don't see any reason why I should order everyone else to do it. That's our motive, that's our approach to this proposal. We're only going to approach him from the angle that we want to cancel the whole thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u11	Mr Sklenák will respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u12	Thank you for the floor. President Kalousek says he spends the holidays differently. But just if he wants to abolish this legislation, it will make it impossible for those who work in the shops to spend the holidays as much as he does. But I applied before his words to stand up for the petitioners from the last parliamentary term, because those questions that are repeatedly raised here, why 200 metres and why only some holidays were repeatedly explained here. 200 meters is just a line that was inspired, I guess, by French modification, if I remember correctly. And, of course, it could be a different measure, but if there was any compromise and some adjustment that had sufficient support, it was this inspiration that was chosen. And so is the list of public holidays. And that is when Senator Bublan tried to deal with operators and employers and to find a model that would allow people to spend at least part of the public holidays as President Kalousek did while trying to accept the public holidays, when those who run the shops, in particular, advocated that they wanted to be open. So maybe I'd rather it wasn't closed on all the public holidays, but it was a kind of compromise at the time. It was a search for an adjustment that found majority support both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u13	Thank you. The following is the factual comment made by Mrs Matušovská. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to supplement my colleague, Mr Sklenák, and I would actually like to respond to Mr Kalousek through the President. He too could decide that it would be all the holidays, that it would not be just the seven chosen, because the amendment was here. It was here: no holidays, seven holidays, and all holidays. The Chamber of Deputies decided that this would only be the seven holidays proposed by the Senate. So he, too, could have made a decision with his MP about how many holidays will be in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u15	Thank you. President Stanjura will now speak in the debate with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u16	Thank you for the floor. I am one of the Members who signed this proposal. He may not have logic, but he was trying to compromise politically. The stubborn tutors of our citizens who know better than they know what to do have missed this chance and I want to thank them. And I believe that at the end of the discussion of this press, the abolition of the law as a whole will be. I understand that, this reservation. It was really an attempt at some kind of political compromise. Mr Nacher wasn't here last time, Mr Sklenák wanted to explain it, but it was a comical explanation of the 200 metres. There was Senator Bublan of the CSSD, and when I asked him why 200 and not 250, then I asked him to estimate how many square meters this courtroom is, if we have an idea of how big a store it is or isn't, it's more than 200 square meters so you know that we don't talk about any superb areas, so really calmly gentleman said: I suggested 200 because in France they have 200. This is a qualified analysis, I don't know if there was a RIA, and I don't know what the impact is, but they have 200 in France, so we also have 200. I don't know what else we could take blindly from France, but I wouldn't recommend it. On reservation, and repeated that employees do not have to work. That's true, but if you're employed in a store that has 199, 198 or just 20 square meters and the owner decides to open it, it doesn't have to be open, and that's what we're doing, whether the owner decides whether it's worth opening it, whether he's gonna find the employees who want to go there, whether he's gonna pay it - yes or no, that's what it's supposed to be. But here, colleagues who unfortunately made up the majority in the last parliamentary term want to raise. [[17.10 hours]] I don't know if you've noticed, many of us go to work for public holidays. We go to these memorial acts, I like to go there to commemorate the important events of our history. Do you feel like there were more citizens last year? That instead of the supermarket visits, the hypermarkets came to the memorial act on October 28th? I may be wrong, but in my experience, I answer: it is not so. It's weird, even though you recommended it, these people don't do it. You might want to think about your recommendation if no one listens to it. We have a lot of professions in continuous operation, and if I have information from businessmen, it's very often on a voluntary basis for those employees. As Mr Nacher said, some want it because there is better money, etc. But here most of the Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term and unfortunately also in this parliamentary term, because the systemic logical proposal to abolish the law as a whole was already here, we assumed that it would pass because in the last parliamentary term the opponents had a minority; purely mathematically, if everyone kept their point of view, those who wanted to propose the repeal of that law have a majority in this term. Unfortunately, some have changed their mind flexibly, but I feel like you didn't put it in the coalition contract, you didn't put it in the coalition agreement, that's good, you don't have an excuse, you don't have to pay the Social Democrats, so let's cancel it. They turned down some kind of compromise that's logical in terms of wholesale, so if they don't want it, they want it all, so I suggest we leave them with nothing!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u17	Thank you. Mr Mihola will speak further in the debate, Mr Munzar will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u18	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, like the previous point, it seems to me that this is such an evergreen. Not only did we devote a lot to him during the last parliamentary term, we were repeatedly forced to devote ourselves to him, so now we have him on the scene again in a relatively short period of time. And I thought it was a little idealistic that the YES movement actually approached the ODS proposal at the time quite rationally with the argument that since the introduction of regulation, the restriction of the selling time in wholesale and retail did not go away enough time to make some revolutionary changes. Although it is, it seems typically Czech still change something and awaken passions. You know, here when someone feels offended that someone wants to regulate or restrict something when I look away from having a map like this, but you don't all see it far away, just a Europe that clearly shows that regulation is something normal, something majority, not something special. [[shows]] We're more special with the impeccable opening. I don't know what's leading us to this. Perhaps those who are constantly affected by some regulation might say, "Who even took the liberty of introducing a state holiday? ' Why should I be confronted with a state holiday? Let everyone celebrate on their own - Christmas beginning with St. Václav. What if someone doesn't like svatý Václav? And he's just having a day off, the state holiday of svatý Václav! After all, we have also heard such inadequate and incorrect comments from the High Representative to St. Václav, but very critical to rude when the holiday was settled years ago. So I'm sorry that we may also have little sense of what they think - citizens certainly do not think that this is a fundamental proposal, a fundamental law. Mostly, when they were on the subject of polls, if you had looked at it, they answered - I saw at least three polls over the past 10 years, maybe there were more of them, I don't know everything, so most of them answered there, and they weren't dozens of respondents, but hundreds or thousands, that it doesn't matter, but what matters is the chaos that the chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek club mentioned here. That bothers me, too, but Mrs Matušovská told him right. The possibility of eliminating this chaos was still in the last term. I know exactly that, because I was making that proposal at the time that would cover all 14 public holidays. Please, we have 14 public holidays in 13 days so we don't feel like we're dealing with every week or God knows how many days. Fourteen public holidays in 13 days, and at this point, there's a current version that only covers eight public holidays. And we often appeal to our roots, our culture, our history, then we say that no one knows anything about any polls, why do we remember what we're saying, so who's to blame? Of course, it is mainly the task of teachers, but also politicians, to warn that public holidays have some meaning, that it is not a day like any other. I'm far away from telling anyone what to do that day, but I'm applying for it and I'm defending myself, the sales girls have their families mostly, the vast majority certainly, their children, they also want to enjoy a holiday or a holiday with the family, whatever the way. And it can't be compared to the fact that firefighters or necessary infrastructure components must be on alert, but, as we know, trains run less, doctors don't do it on a public holiday, only emergency, and business is actually about as important as that. And, you know, those countries that we're culturally, historically, economically closest to, Austria, Germany, there's no way out of it! And they're far from regulation, much more. There are other days involved. I mean, you all go there and you know it, no one gets offended, no one gets upset, they accept it as a normal thing. And those countries are not less market, they are not less capitalist. I'm a little surprised to my colleagues at ODS and TOP 09 that they may not be discussing these matters more with their partner organisations and parties. I also deal with them repeatedly during my visit to those countries, among other things, or those who are moved to do so. Maybe sometimes it's more about goodwill and discussion. I'd be interrogating myself to eliminate the chaos that people are most benevolent about. Why, yes, it's hard for me to understand why on Good Friday, which we approved here in the last parliamentary term as a state holiday, is it open and closed on Easter Monday? I mean, really, it's a pretty bad answer. But again, I understand that there's some status quo right now before there's another discussion or some other research. And I would certainly listen to the voice of the citizens if we worked with it, with some research. At this point, I think that this measure really does not matter, and the arguments that - I spoke about this in the morning in the Czech Radio with my colleague Vrecionová and she said the argument: because there are people more religious in Austria or Bavaria, etc. But you who go abroad know that there are perhaps fewer people in Germany and Austria than there are in the Czech Republic or Moravia. So these arguments don't apply here at all, but they really do go there to the tradition and on top of that, the Němec have said many times on the subject: we can cancel it, we could do without this measure, but we want it to be known that the holiday day is simply not exactly the same as the working day. So I end by saying that there are days when the economy and shopping might not be the first place, and I dare to make a motion to reject this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u19	Yes, thank you. Mr Kasal will respond with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm sorry, I won't forgive the question, or I'll respond to my previous speaker. He talked about us comparing other states and other health care here. Here's what I'd like to say to you, colleague. If we were to compare it, abroad, where you spoke, there is a significant cost for the emergency, and there are really fewer people going to the emergency room, practically not operating, whereas in the Czech Republic the emergency room is like on a weekday. That's one thing. It's operating practically 24/7. And even those doctors who are there to secure it, then they're entitled to buy something, which isn't quite as common. And when it comes down to it, if you just look at the calendar and you have some Sundays and you have a holiday, you get to have four or five days of permanent business closed. It takes some sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u21	With another factual remark, Mr Nacher will speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u22	Thank you. I would ask my colleagues to stop arguing about how it works in Germany, Austria or somewhere. Every time we run out of arguments, we always pull this out. I'm fresh here, so I'll think of an example with an anti-smoking agent. Everyone here argued by Austria that smoking was forbidden in Austria. When they dropped it again in Austria, Austria was no longer an example. Whatever I did... Those two minutes. Share of rental housing, rental housing versus private housing. There are twice as many people in our country as there are in Germany. So, are we going to adapt to Germany? Now we're gonna tell everyone: sell it and live in a rental. It's just... It all comes from some other historical experience. Let's be a little sovereign, let's have some fun about how it's gonna work with us. We also have another experience that happened before 1989. So please stop arguing that it's in Germany or Austria, where they may be used to it, and let's not go over all the bullshit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u23	Thank you. Mr Munzar will now be speaking in the debate. After that, Mr. Mr. Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also speak on this proposal, which I am, in fact, a co-president, because I have signed this proposal. This situation in which we find ourselves shows in its nudity the absurdity of the ban on sales in stores over 200 meters on selected holidays. To Mr Mihola through Mr President. I like public holidays, too. Not because it's free, but because it reminds us of milestones in our history and tradition. But I certainly don't consider them a reason to forbid and order anyone. I signed this proposal because I don't think we should forbid businessmen when to sell, where to sell, and customers when and where to buy. That should be their free decision, which the state has no say in. The ban was allegedly introduced in the name of employee protection. But it seems to me that it has been introduced in the name of social engineering and a constant desire to speak into people's lives. And today there are exceptions. One of the logical arguments of this proposal that we are discussing today is that supply should not run smoothly, e.g. to gastronomic facilities that need fresh food. So that we can be served by the employees of those businesses, where the spread of good times has not yet arrived. Unfortunately, other bans and orders are already there. Today, shops with a sales area not exceeding 200 square metres have this exception, or e.g. petrol stations, shops at railway stations, bus stations, airports or shops in medical facilities. Now they'll join them if this proposal goes through, wholesale. Big shops over 200 square meters are bad luck. Merchants in closed business centers are unfortunately also unlucky. It shows how every such regulation by the legislative power, by the state, perverts the market. The overall ban on sales thus points to a clear inequality. Whoever has 190 square meters can sell. Whoever has a shop that has more than 200 square meters can't sell. As much as I don't like the exceptions, I will support this exception, because every element that reduces this pointless ban on sales is fine and good. And I also think that, overall, we should abolish restrictions on working time. By the way, it was the ODS that came forward with this proposal in January at the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected at the time, but I hope that a similar proposal will now pass. Thank you for your attention. And we look forward to doing what we see fit and what we want on the holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u25	Thank you. Mr Skopeček will now appear. Mr Bláha is the last member of the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u26	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. I would also like to express my support for the proposal put forward for a simple reason, because it will increase freedom and entrepreneurship and freedom in our country in general. This has been significantly reduced, limited for me by the senseless regulation of the selling time that has been approved, and despite several amendments, the House has failed to find a majority in that past, so that we can return people to their own freedom to decide what they will do about the holidays. The restriction of freedom is on several sides of the exchange transaction. On the one hand, we limit entrepreneurs' ability to dispose of their own assets, into which they invested, from which they pay taxes. On the contrary, the State imposes a tax obligation on them and a number of other administrative costs and bureaucracy, but it does not allow them to make money at a time when they themselves consider it appropriate. Freedom of employees is also being reduced because employees do not sell non-free at public holidays. Each employer is free to conclude a contract of employment, and it is certain that when concluding a contract of employment, he asks what his working hours will be, whether overtime is being done in the job, whether it is on holidays. Especially in these days, when the situation on the labour market is really tense and when employers are hard to find any job and the employee is very free to choose his employer, it is an absurd argument that we force mothers from children to work in shops at night. Just for illustration. When you ask, at night, when warehouses and shelves are added, on holidays, students usually struggled for these hours at work and liked to leave those employees the opportunity to stay at home with their children because they simply and simply received more money because the employer valued the work on public holidays with a higher reward. So this opportunity for employees to earn more takes regulation of sales time as well. After all, it is also on the consumer's side of reducing freedom or restricting freedom, because the consumer, if he decides to spend the public holiday buying it, has some reason to do so. It's the best time possible for him. The benefit of it is the greatest, or he would have chosen another form of leisure time. Because by not allowing him to sell on holidays, we do not limit him to any other way of spending his free time. He can go to the store, but he doesn't have to. The regulation doesn't affect that at all. So I very much intercede to support this amendment. I agree that wholesale is only one aspect of the business network. I would be very happy if we succeeded in pushing through the amendments to prevent and abolish the regulation altogether. However, even a small piece to greater freedom of business and to greater freedom of people and less paternalism and less watering people at the hands of the state, even this is a small positive shift and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u27	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Bláha, who will now be speaking, is the last one entered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna throw a little pitchfork in this one from the other side. I'm a businessman who's been in business for 30 years. I'm a businessman who introduced the holidays. This means that working on a holiday and Sunday, because it was not normal to work on a holiday, even on a Sunday. And the arguments that have just been made here that we can choose freely, that's really not the case. I have my 12 establishments, and two years ago, I decided not to work on a holiday or Sunday, and yet I couldn't close some. I couldn't lock them up because I just don't have the right to do it if I'm in the business chain. I'm not entitled to it because I'm not going to arrange it with the guy who rents me the premises. There's no choice. That way, they can't even choose my employees, because if they work for me, they have to come to the job. And believe me, the baker has to bake for them, and for them, the pastry maker has to bake. And set it all up. And the baker overnight and the pastry maker at 2:00 a.m. to work, so you can have fresh products on your desk on that holiday. And that saleswoman three more hours before opening hours to unpack it all. All this is the destiny of those who serve you and cannot really choose freely. [[17.30 hours]] And today's condition -- and that's why I shut down most of my establishments -- is that people don't want to work on the holiday. They really don't want to. Those who want to work may be students, but even those who have a different plan on the holiday do not go to work and are difficult to get to work. And the wording that this guy gets into better money is really distorted because on a weekday, if it's a holiday and the employee doesn't go to work, he gets a holiday normally paid. And the moment he goes to work, he gets paid extra wages, so he gets paid that holiday like the one who doesn't go to work, plus the pay for being at work. I'm just going to read you some of the things I wrote in my notes, and I'd like you to think about them. It's not that I want to impose something on you, order you something. Not at all. Why did we invent the holidays? What's the reason they're made up? So that we can just have it in the title, like it's a holiday, or is it a holiday for everyone? What is the meaning of the word holiday? If that word means spending days a little differently, then it's meaningless to go to work. The festival is not a holiday for the political, higher and official class. Feast is everyone's holiday. That means everyone should just have the same right to spend exactly the same holiday. Someone said we'd finally be able to decide how to spend the holiday. But those people who have to go to work can't decide freely. This may be the decision of an official, but we might just as well argue that people are unable to go to the authorities on a weekday, so let's make an official day on the holiday so that people can go to the authorities. Let's do it. Let's put the officials in their seats, and people will thank you for letting them go to the authorities on the holiday. I wonder what officials and others will say. For me, it's discrimination against everyone who works. Definitely discrimination against everyone who has to go to work. It's also discrimination for entrepreneurs, because when I, as an entrepreneur, have to be open, even if I don't want to be open, because I'm bound by a contract and I don't have the option to sign another contract, so I'm discriminated against those who are just at home, lying on their bunks in peace and deciding: I'm going to Bláh's to buy. You can't choose like I said, want or don't. The terms are determined by the owners of the department stores, they are determined by chain owners and often by competition, because when you say close, if the competition is open, then I record the competition so that next time people go straight to the person who is open. So in this case, the regulation is really appropriate, because at that point, it's the same for everyone. We're still calling for a way to get close, look up, keep hearing it, see how it works somewhere else, and in this case, it doesn't suit us. Fresh food industry suffers the most, and believe me, because the fresh food industry has to wake up early in the morning to distract you. It must be late in the evening, but they're often there overnight. Yet they still go on holiday. Most of the people who work in offices, we in the Chamber of Deputies and others working from to, have jobs from 7 to 15 and are laughing. Sellers, salesmen, bakers, pastry makers, meat makers, and others are just unlucky. It's a non-economic act at all costs. I shut down all my businesses for one simple reason, because they stopped being interested. And believe me, I was the first to hold Christmas Eve as a salesman for the first ten years. I was the one who delivered the goods after Christmas. I was the one who delivered the goods for the employees so they wouldn't have to go to work. Today, the economy looks something like this. Thirty percent of normal day. Thirty percent. At that point, when you pay the worker in question, you're down. Is it worth doing things that are negative? I'd just like to remind you, he's just the same face on Sunday. So if we were to cancel working Sundays, then maybe we could sort out the working situation on our market, because those people who don't go to work on Sundays can use and we'll have more labor on a weekday, because people who go on Sundays and Saturdays just don't go on a weekday, or at least two days a week they don't go to work. We thus support the owners of multinational chains, importers and owners of shopping centres. We don't support our small and medium. Go see the villages and small towns today, see if any private businessman is open. You'll count them on one hand, believe me. In some small towns, up to 3,000 inhabitants are really just our neighbors from other countries. I don't want to say directly that it's just Vietnamec or Číňan, but it's just the others. They're not normal, ordinary businessmen. Regular businessmen are closed on the holiday. See if you can run it and see what's going on. What is being proposed today is unequal business conditions, because we allow Macro to be open, and go see who is shopping in Macro today. They're mostly businessmen who have a Macro card, but they go there on a holiday to buy their own needs. Those who are open do not have time to go shopping in Macro or wholesale, for one simple reason, because they provide sales in their store because they have no one to be there. Nowadays, it turns out that on Sundays they often work in restaurants that have no one to put there. The owners are there on the holiday because they have no one to put there. That's what happens today. And they don't have a chance to say no, I won't be open. Where they have it, they close together. As I said, the MP says yes, I don't have to go to work on a holiday, but the worker really can't say it. We only promote interest groups, which means we promote the interests of the large- and multinational chains. That's probably all I wanted to tell you. When you judge that bowl of scales, really remember that the word feast, and the feast, was introduced to celebrate it together in a different spirit from work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The debate will now continue. Firstly, there are two factual points - Mr Beitl and Mr Skopeček will speak with them. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Bláha, through Mr President, has kind of opened my eyes here. I'm - and maybe I'm still involved - for 25 years working in the hotel industry and gastronomy industry, and now I've found out that this industry is actually the one that has everything to do in this republic because everyone who has a holiday goes to restaurants and hotels and our staff has to reflect it there. Fortunately, we managed to invent a short and long week system, which means that our people go to work one week for three days and the next week for four days, so the working time fund runs out evenly, as the law says. I'll tell you again, you'll be surprised, but they're still applying for the holidays, because they just make more money on those days when restaurants and hotels are full. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u31	Thank you. Mr Skopeček's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u32	Thank you. There were a lot of things in that speech to respond to, but I was really interested in one thing that also opened my eyes. I have so far thought that competition in business has helped, that it is the engine of the Czech economy, that when one entrepreneur competes with another and forces it to offer consumers better services, better opening hours, cheaper products, I thought it was better for the country. But today I have learned from one of the entrepreneurs that competition is actually bad for our business, that it is bad for individual entrepreneurs, and it is likely that, in addition to the regulation of opening hours, we will soon have a proposal from a fellow Member that bans competition first in bakery, later in other fields. Because how does he come to do business, and next to him, is someone else doing business in the same field who dares to have longer opening hours? After all, it is so unfair to this entrepreneur that we cannot allow this to happen in a socially sensitive society to have so many entrepreneurs competing with each other. So I'm expecting a debate over this law when we're going to set up one baker for every city, one food salesman, one butcher. It will certainly be for the benefit of this country and its economic growth. However, there is one thing I would agree with my colleague when he said that when he came to the village, that he was meeting closed shops there. So do I. But they're not only closed on public holidays, they're closed after you've prepared an electronic record of their sales. Indeed, a number of small entrepreneurs and small pubs in small villages had to close. If you hadn't introduced the electronic records, the inspection reports, the smoking bans, the end of the vending machines in the pubs in those villages in the last parliamentary term, then if you had come to those villages, you would have found the pub open on Sundays and maybe even on a public holiday. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u33	Thank you. I ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace so that we hear each other's arguments and opinions, which are heard here. In fact, the comments are still being made. Mr Bláha will now appear, after which President Kalousek will speak. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u34	We could talk about competition if the conditions were the same. If we can't set them up, we can't talk about competition at that point. Today, most people who work on Saturdays, Sundays, but especially on the holiday, they're people who aren't allowed to work. They're working black. And unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about it. And believe it, for the most part, that's how it is. Most entrepreneurs who dare to be open on a holiday today, because otherwise it's uneconomic. If you have 30 percent of the revenue, you can't stand it, it's just because these people don't admit that they work, and they don't do social and health for them. As far as closed shops in small villages are concerned, this is completely different for a simple reason. We drove our work out of the village by allowing sub-cost products to be imported here. This prevented pigs from growing in the villages today, keeping cows, making vegetables, etc. We drove work out of the village, and that's why business doesn't work because it's logical. If I'm going to work in town and I'm coming back at 5:00 tonight, I'm not going back to the store in the village. And if I come back tonight at 5:00, I'm so beat I'm not even going to that pub anymore. So that's just a hint of how it is, but you'd have to know something about it. You'd have to go to work and work with your hands, and maybe then you'd think otherwise. Believe it. I'm not mad at you. I'm just trying to explain to you that the situation is a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u35	It will be followed by a factual remark from President Kalousek, who will be heard by President Stanjura, Mr Nacher, Mr Skopeček. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u36	Thank you. Mr. Bláha probably made us all think, but please. So I will try to accept his logic, but then let's be consistent. Then let's just ask ourselves why it's only in the shops. So let's do it wherever it's not urgent medicine or necessary transportation, then in the second reading, let's read that it's forbidden to have open churches over 200 square meters on public holidays. I mean, that poor vicar at the svatý John's. Václav wants his day off, too. And that's usually the day he has to work from morning to night and he can't choose. He can't choose! But if we tell him he doesn't have to go to work, then yes. Then it will be in the spirit of Mr Bláha's logic. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u37	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u38	I'll say more later on in a proper performance, but I really don't know how to handle words like "quite a bit". It's a little different. Is it completely different, or is it a little different? I really don't know. But I don't think we understood each other on the basis of understanding the text. Mr. Bláha here acts as if we were ordering someone to open the door. And we're not ordering him to open it. We're against the state forbidding it. That's two different worlds. When we talk about business equality, the first thing you have to do is yell, no green oil! No subsidies! You're supposed to be the first to stand here with us and say, "This is an inequality in the business environment!" I have never heard that from you, Mr President. So we really didn't get along, so I'll try to explain. Easy, a little. No, I'd better explain it to you completely. The law that applies today prohibits a group of entrepreneurs from doing business on public holidays, and it is chosen for the activity and at the same time for the size of the establishment. So there are two restrictions. I can't shop, and I can get a beer from our lawmakers who were for the law. This means the innkeeper can go to work on Saturday, Sunday, on a holiday, but a businessman virtually. an employee of a shop over 200 metres. And I don't know, it doesn't give me a rhetorical question. When you sign the treaty, Mr President, do you know what you are signing? You were actually complaining about yourself. It's not my fault you signed a stupid contract, and now you're incapable of closing if you want to. Then tell me about the contract. You're a free man!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u39	Thank you. Mr Nacher's point of fact. After that, Mr Skopeček, then Mr Pikal, with factual remarks. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u40	He told my colleague Stanjura, but I'm gonna recap, so it's clear what we're talking about here. The thing is, it's got to be closed today. And we're not suggesting that it's open, we're suggesting that it's open. See if we can see the differences. So we know what we're talking about here, and we're not upset about something that's not content. But originally there was a real wholesale. What happened here right now, we're actually talking about the law as a whole. I was suggesting a compromise, unfortunately it will fall into the debate, if the whole law even makes sense. And that's what I wanted to avoid. So think about it, colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u41	Thank you. Mr Skopeček and his point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u42	By your means, I will respond to Mr Bláha, who has developed the complaint about competition to sub-cost prices. It is clear to me that you would have made it to such an extent that it would not only be regulated opening hours, not only a specified number of businessmen and entrepreneurs per district, but also that the state would determine prices in shops. I just want to let you know that this is central planning, and you should move a little more to the left on that bench.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u43	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, with a factual point, followed by Mr Bláha, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u44	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to throw myself into this debate, but now that the debate is moving towards closing pubs on public holidays, I'd like to ask that it not be done, because this Christmas beer, when we, after the Christmas opening of presents with friends who are going to come back to Olomouc from all over the Republic, we're going to get a beer, it's like a huge sanctification of the holiday, so I'd beg that we don't throw ourselves that way. I'd try to get back to the point. So I'm for those who would beg to have any consensus on whether all the public holidays will be closed somewhere or no state holiday, whether it's not the mess that's in now. If this were the result of the discussion, I'd be happy whether it turns out to be one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u45	Thank you. Mr Bláha withdrew his point of order. We will now continue with the speech of those who have entered into the debate. The order will be as follows. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Benda after him, Mr Stanjura after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey the opinion of the Pirates' MP. We vetoed the acceleration of negotiations because we think we need to take advantage of the opportunity that the House has the will to deal with this problem and do it more thoroughly. Colleagues have mentioned the immense indiscretion of the present state. You don't really know which holiday will be open and when it won't be, which is completely impractical. Even the holidays, as they are chosen, are not chosen in any way intelligible. Like there's a Christian holiday where there's no shopping or anything like that. It was just a compromise again, but it has no internal logic, so it's completely confusing. That's one aspect of the problem. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] The second aspect, of course, is improving the conditions of employees. That was, I suppose, one of the main motives of the law when it came into being. This improves the conditions of employees especially large chains. Pirates generally don't like bans. They prefer softer measures. For example, mandatory wage increases in the holidays. Unfortunately, what we are referring to in this particular case is that a number of workers in those supermarkets are actually agency pseudo-fooders, which are then not covered by the holiday bonus. So we don't think we can enforce a better rule where a person who goes to work on a holiday gets double or triple and is compensated in this way -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u47	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I will ask my colleague and colleagues, this time especially in the left side of the Chamber, for peace and peace, and for you to have the room to make your arguments. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u48	Thank you, Mr President. So instead of really being able to force the intention for the holidays and the work in them to be better honored, it often doesn't work through some loopholes. Likewise, the intention for those workers not to have to work often fails to be fulfilled because, for example, the employer will do great inventory and other steps. So it is not at all fulfilled the objective of the law. So maybe part of the people lose an extra charge, or part of the people can't spend the holiday with the family, and they just move the goods and do other things. It is even possible that part of employers and those large chains supported the law for this reason. That they're actually coming up with some days where they can get inventory and they don't have to worry about their competitors stealing their customers. Which, of course, may have some logic, but it makes people's comforts in general worse. So I think that the House should discuss the law in detail, deal with the problem of clarity for people, the enforcement of improved employee conditions, and if we can find a compromise that solves the problems that I mentioned, we could somehow make a comprehensive adjustment to ideally so that there is a consensus from both right and left, and we didn't deal with it every two years, like this is happening now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u49	Thank you. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for work reasons. Mr Bláha will now respond with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u50	Colleagues, co-workers, I'm here for the last time. I pulled the deed a moment ago because I forgot the subject. I just want to tell you that... [[Notes from the right side of the hall to the address of the speaker.]] Everyone doesn't have what it takes to be a speaker right away, you can laugh about it. Yeah, we're gonna mock each other, that's nice. It's okay. That's the democracy we have here. I just want to ask you, really, if you want to know more about this problem, I'm willing to talk to you about it. And I'm not mad at you for not being oriented in this segment. I'm not mad at you for that, and I'm ready to answer those questions. But we're not gonna discuss this here. And as for sub-cost prices, it's really different. We have allowed imports here, for example this year, meat of already killed pigs, half of them, for CZK 25 kilos. Thanks to this, all our farmers who raise pigs lose millions a month. So go tell them that it's none of your business, that it's the market economy. When they have national subsidies in other states. Go tell them they lost millions. How are they supposed to deal with this? That all these years, they've been pissing away from the smallest breeding to have a return, raising these little piggies and moving on and on. Then go to them and see what they have to say. Follow them that you do not want to deal with sub-cost prices and import of sub-cost surplus products into the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u51	The following will be the factual remarks made by President Stanjura and the Lords of Skopeček and Klaus. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u52	Let's make a first comment on the speaker. Five years is your movement in the government. I'm speaking as an opposition speaker. You had the Minister of Agriculture, didn't you? After the election. Ask him what he did with it. But when I listen to Mr Bláha, it is as if I have heard some Western European policies, French, German, Dutch. On dumping from the east, as we have dumped wages, as it is unfair for Czech products to be placed on their market. You've never heard of it? I heard that. Ask the carriers how they apply the minimum wage in their country to our employees. That's the way to hell. This is the way of customs, trade barriers, price increases, reduction of competition. Maybe you like it. You should then sit by four benches left - from my point of view. That would be programmed. Since answering the customs trade barrier by giving an even bigger customs or trade barrier is not in the interests of the Czech Republic. We are an export-oriented economy and we are to proceed accordingly. And if we have 80 or 81 percent of our production exports, or our exports to the countries of the European Union, let us not record those votes that want to build new trade barriers for placing goods and services from the Czech Republic for these reasons. It's like I hear it. That's the debate about single social benefits. You may also have heard of this, Mr Blá, through Mr President. These are very dangerous things, and we should not add to this and, on the contrary, try to break down trade barriers. This is in the interests of the Czech Republic, it is in the interests of our entrepreneurs and it is also in the interests of employees of our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u53	Mr Skopeček's point of fact. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Klaus. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u54	The MP turned to us there and asked if it seemed fair to us that the cheap meat was imported here. I'd answer him with a question. Does it seem fair to you that we're exporting the cheap damages to Germany, and we're competing with the expensive Audi and Porsche? How fair is it to those employees at the Audi, Porsche, that we dare to import cheap damage to Germany? How do the employers come up with this? How are they supposed to compete with them? How are they supposed to convince those German consumers not to buy Czech damages, but to buy German more expensive Audi? So that's about the argument. I think that many of us support free market and free international trade. Obviously not you. As for the cheap meat, I suggest you focus on the nature of the problem. You have ministries, you're in government, you go to meetings of European councils. The problem lies in the socialist agricultural policy of the European Union, which constitutes overproduction, subsidizes. There are problems with low meat prices. If we cancel this and set free trade without subsidies, without regulations, like in other segments of the economy, then there will be no problem with the cheap subsidised meat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u55	Mr Klaus's point of fact follows. After that, Mr Juříček, Mr Bláha and Mr Holík will speak with factual remarks in this order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u56	I'm glad the debate got a little bit of a cultural attachment because I was a little tired as I was sitting there. I would also like to say that I am not angry with Mr Bláha. And maybe I'd also like to ask when we're discussing a point that concerns opening business hours, if that's possible, but I don't insist that we leave the pigs out of it and some other things that have nothing to do with it, and maybe we really talked about letting these people open up whenever they want, and we didn't have to bend the debate elsewhere. But maybe I can take it all the way to the seven in this style. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u57	Mr Juříček's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I do not agree with my colleague Jirka Bláha, through the President, in substance, but I must say that I do not agree with the way you go about it either. I'm thinking about the invectives you're using on him. He's an honest man, and he's an honest businessman, and we should respect him. Thank you. I hope we all take the gas off. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u59	Thank you. Mr Bláha will now appear. Mr Holík has withdrawn his point of order, so the factual remark of President Stanjura will follow. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u60	For the last time, really. We have a single European market and uniform European rules and national subsidies, so we are a little disunified in this. We had an idea here, and there was one unnamed party, the market would solve everything, so we've all been there. The market didn't solve anything. It's very nice that you're comparing the damage to the Audi. We have a huge profit on the plant, just as the Audi and other car manufacturers have a huge profit. And that's the difference, in the pigs, because even abroad, they can't make that pig for 25 crowns, but only because they have other hidden national subsidies and, above all, they protect their market, that means they're producing, they have agricultural production, so they have developed those villages where those people are employed so that pubs and shops can work there, that's the idea. We still don't get it. We're gonna put everything in here, and we're gonna destroy these villages, and that's why we don't have a life. So that's pretty simple. Really, don't look for any complexity, everyone's protecting their market, and the other states around us know how to do it, and that's why they bring in their surplus things that aren't able to give up on their market anymore, and of course we take them with great arms and destroy their small or even medium-sized ones, who are trying to do it for us, and they're not going to, so one day it's going to come out of Germany: Do you want meat? Well, it'll be a hundred. Hey. Goodbye. That's what I meant, like, "Hey, we're gonna hear from the other states."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u61	We will continue with the factual remarks. Now, President Stanjura, after him, Mr Munzar. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u62	I would like to address a specific question to my fellow Member, Mr Juříček, that when someone says that we are not treating a colleague correctly, let him be addressed. I disagree and strongly argue against Mr Bláha's arguments. I didn't even talk about whether he was an honest businessman, it just doesn't belong in a political debate, and I don't use that kind of argument. I disagree because his performances are not consistent. The last example a moment ago, and I don't agree with it, so he says first: there are uniform rules for all alike, and then he says: the others break them and do it differently. So either the sentence is one or the sentence is the other. They can't both pay. And if he whines and complains about the Czech government's actions in national subsidies, I remind him once again that his movement has been in government for five years. Then why does he always look at us when he says "you want it and it's not there"? These national subsidies are not decided by the House and not by the opposition, but are decided by the government and the government majority. I don't understand it at all. And I reserve the right, Mr Juříček, through the Vice-President, to strongly disagree with the views without touching anyone personally. If it happens to me, of course it can happen, then I apologize, it's not my style, but it certainly didn't happen today. I don't agree with those opinions. And it turns out that even an honest businessman, a successful businessman, can be significantly left-wing. That's right, I'm not questioning it at all, but I just strongly disagree with his left-wing opinions, these comparisons limp, they're not reasonable, and as I said at the beginning in my first performance, we really don't understand each other. I would understand Mr Bláha's arguments if the bill were to be opened, but that would be as bad as having to close. So I'm trying to explain to him that what he's worried about isn't what he's afraid of, and if he made a bad deal, it's not the responsibility of the legislators. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u63	Mr Munzar, with a point of fact, followed by Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u64	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to respond to Mr Bláha through Mr President. The free market you're criticizing here, my colleague, has just made it possible for you to have, I think you said 12 establishments, without the free market, you shouldn't. But just what you said here is limiting competitiveness, that there are unequal conditions, that doesn't cause the market, that's causing state regulation. And that brings me back to the topic that we have here on the table, the restriction of opening hours. By deciding here in the past period that only some traders are limited, those over 200 meters, so that is the restriction of competition, these are unequal conditions and every similar intervention by the state into the free market creates inequalities for us. So rather look for a problem in the various prohibitions, regulations, orders, subsidies, subsidies, regulations than in the free market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u65	Thank you. Mr Válek and his point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u66	I, ladies and gentlemen, would also very much, as has been said before, appreciate it if we go back to the subject of this working time, and through Mr President, I will just allow myself a small remark as a member of the agricultural committee to please the chairman of the agricultural committee that I am watching what is falling here. Pigs are not really produced, but they behave, so I would like to emphasise this as a member of the agricultural committee, and thus I also demonstrate that I am really closely monitoring all the comments and the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u67	The block of factual remarks has ended and Mr Benda is now on the table in the general debate, followed by President Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u68	Mr President, rapporteur, rapporteur, ministers and ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I applied about an hour ago, and I wanted to have a rather short speech, but since I am not taking advantage of factual remarks, in the meantime it has been really, really, really big. Maybe I can easily respond in at least a few glosses to what happened. First of all, to Mr Bláh, and now I will not raise a dispute with him through Mr President about how expensive pigs are, whether they are too expensive or too cheap in our country. But the sentence that was said here in the House of Commons, I am discriminated against by the signed treaty, it seems to me really slightly spicy. I can be discriminated against by anything else, such as the state, and I am often discriminated against by the state in a number of things, but I can hardly be discriminated against by the treaty that I signed, and then I can only curse myself. Otherwise, it's hard to find someone who discriminates against me. Second comment on Mr Ferjenčík, who was angry that the law had no internal logic. So it doesn't have any of the left-wing laws approved here in the last four years. It was all these strange compromises by big businessmen and socialists who ended up exactly in the fact that there was no intersect between them. Mr. Juříček said not to be mean to Mr. Bláha, because he is an honest man and an honest entrepreneur. I totally respect that, but I don't think it belongs on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Here I even discuss with dishonest people and with dishonest entrepreneurs, and I think that there is a factual argument, not what the person is, and that in my opinion, all the speakers who actually led the controversy with what was said, not with who said it. [[18.10 hours]] And why did I originally sign up? He partially brought it up by his colleague Ferjenčík when he spoke of those inventory days. I have another experience, I'm not a businessman, I'm just talking to these people. When you passed this famous law three years ago, a friend who has a fairly large moving company came in and says to me, "Do you think you've worked something out? Of course, the vendors aren't going there on those days off, but my movers are going there because the wholesalers are gonna make up the idea that they're either gonna do inventory or they're gonna reorganize..." If you really think there's anything we can do to help with these state interventions, we're not going to help anyone at all. Except the saleswoman isn't gonna sell, she's gonna reschedule the shelves. And if the saleswoman doesn't happen to go there, someone else will move there. That's the only result. And the only person who gets hit in the end is the consumer. And I'm afraid part of this House still wants to raise that. The bad consumer who dares to go shopping on a public holiday. I also honor some holidays, very, some less, some I wouldn't dare go shopping for and it would be embarrassing to me, some I don't really care and I'm going to go shopping in peace. But then you can't have any fun on that state holiday. Why are pubs open, movies open, everything else? If anybody likes going shopping, they really don't bring him up. And you can't protect the employees because there are other employees going to do other activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u69	Thank you. President Stanjura in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u70	I volunteered right after Marek an hour ago, but unlike him, I wasn't disciplined, and I got involved in factual comments. Well, I'm gonna get back to the point one more time. I repeat: the proposal was an attempt to compromise politically, it was rejected. We hope to agree with the other petitioners, we haven't had a chance to consult yet, we will use this opportunity to propose the repeal of this law as a whole. Because it's a logical solution. If someone is calling for a system and logical solution. In order not to just criticize Mr Bláha, I would agree with him on some aspects. After all, the entrepreneur knows very well whether it is economically advantageous for him to open up or not. And that's how it's supposed to be. And regardless of the law, if entrepreneurs evaluate that it is economically disadvantageous for them to have a public holiday on Monday afternoon, Tuesday morning or Saturday closed, they just shut down. Because he knows better than we do. To tell him when to be open and when to be closed from state level. The argument with these employees is also not true, especially at a time when there is basically zero unemployment. If I don't get the number wrong, last month it was 310 grand, now I think it was even a higher number, 314 thousand job vacancies are available. If someone's current job doesn't suit, he certainly has a good chance of finding another job and is very likely to get a better reward. So at a time when there is zero unemployment, when employers are desperate for labor, saying that we are protecting someone, that poor man has poor working conditions - well, of course, he can have individually, I don't rule that out. But now's the time if there's someone like that to find another job. Of course, the problem is with qualifications. Those with the smallest qualifications have the least chance in the labour market, but that's normal, it's logical, and it's consistent with the deployment before someone enters the labour market. Whether he worked on himself or whether he had any qualifications. And the higher the qualifications, the better the odds. I've already tried to point out the absurdity of the 200 m2. There was no analysis of this. Only Mr. Ending Senator - I know he ends up in the Senate not defending, then I think he was an MP when he first tried, then he was a Senator - just said: It was in France, so I copied it. And that the system is inconspicuous to everyone, I think it's true. That we have freedom of decision-making, I think it's also true. Well, let's at least try to cut back on some regulation once in a while. I said it at a different point today. When you ask your colleagues, I read that 127 Members are running in municipal elections, that is the constitutional majority, I am not one of them, but I can estimate that in many of these programs there is talk about how to simplify the lives of people, entrepreneurs, how to limit bureaucracy. So far, I have not heard anyone on the electoral agenda, even though it is done really, especially our colleagues from the left love that we will introduce more regulation, increase bureaucracy - you can't hear that in these campaigns. You hear the opposite. Well, here's a chance to cancel some nonsense regulation without compensation. Those who gave us the veto gave us that chance. Because, as my colleague, Mr Munzar, has already said here, we have tried once before, the law has not passed and we will not repeat, our colleagues from the left do so again. They're not gonna get away with the law and they're gonna say, "We're gonna do it again next week!" We were trying to find a compromise, we co-signed it. But when you gave us the chance, we will try again with a patient argument in committee and in plenary to convince you that we are right that regulation is useless. And life will show where it's economically advantageous and where it's not. And the debate about small villages makes no sense at this point. I live in a village with 1,800 inhabitants. If it's too much or too little, I'll leave it to you. But we don't have a hypermarket over 200 meters. So the problem of this law doesn't affect life in small municipalities at all. That has nothing to do with the issue. But I'm happy to lead the debate, because if I'm really enjoying something, in quotes, that means I'm tired of the view from town to village. Do you really think we all want to be farmers in that village? That we don't know how hard it is? That these peasant families are actually ending because the younger generations see how risky it is, how challenging it is? Speaking of animal production, just a rhetorical question, I'm not going to name any of the Members: Don't they have to work there every day, in animal production? Or will you convince those animals that it's a state holiday that nothing will be that day? Let's talk about the problem on the table! We now have more options than I thought an hour and a quarter ago when I was ready to vote in favour of the bill at first reading. And let's take that chance and cancel this nonsense regulation. Because we don't raise people. If our citizens decide not to buy on Sundays and public holidays, they have the right to do so, the entrepreneurs will shut down! Because they're going to make an economic assessment, they're going to find out that it's not going to pay off, and the problem is solved. On the contrary, if they find that it is beneficial for them, let us leave it to them. And that's it! That is the whole dispute between those of us who advocate the idea of free trade and freedom of decision-making, whether an entrepreneur, an employee or a consumer citizen, and those who tend to regulate, prescribe, raise everything. I belong to the first group, and at least in this bill, we could find the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u71	Thank you. I have not received any further applications for the debate, nor do I see anyone reporting, so I am ending the general debate. Is there an interest in the final word? So the rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u72	Mr Vice-President, I just wanted to reiterate that the veto for discussion under Section 90 was raised by five MPs, and Mr Mihola proposed rejection at first reading, although I know this is not. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u73	Thank you to the rapporteur, it is indeed true. In the general debate, Mr Mihola's motion to reject the proposal was made. This is a matter that we will now deal with in the vote. I have summoned Members from the lobby, and in a few moments I will begin voting on the rejection of the proposed proposal. I think we can proceed to the vote. There's a request for a check-out, which I will, of course, grant. Are you all logged out? Please log in with your cards again. We are now ready to vote. Excuse me, Mrs. Detective, I can't sign up. That means I'm going to sign you off one more time, and we're going to try to make it right this way. Please sign up again with your voting cards. So, Madame, is everything okay now? Yes. [[18.20 hours]] So now it is The Chamber of Deputies is prepared to vote on the rejection of the proposal. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 30, 163 Members signed in, for 32, against 111. The motion has been rejected and we will continue to discuss it. We will continue by bringing this proposal to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. There is a proposal from the Organising Committee to discuss the proposal as a guarantee committee to the Economic Committee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 164 Members registered, in favour of 162, against 2. I note that the proposal was directed to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to another Committee. Does anyone have a suggestion like that? Yes, Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u74	Mr President, I dare to propose the commandments of the Committee on Social Policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-006-022.u75	Yes. Is there, please, any other motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion? It's not. We will therefore vote on ordering this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32, 165 Members registered, for 57, against 95. The motion was not accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal was only directed to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I thank the representatives of the appellants and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this law. We will now proceed to discuss the point.
