ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u1	77. Proposal by Members Petr Gazdík, Zbyněk Stanjura, Ivan Bartoš, Helena Langšádlová, Radim Fiala and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll. House printing 41/ - third reading We closed the debate at the moment when the factual remarks were exhausted, when the speakers responded to their previous speakers, and with a proper application for the debate, Mr Ferjenčík, to whom I hereby give the floor, is signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief speech on this subject. First of all, I was very surprised by my colleague Juříček's information that the government has adopted today a proposal that is more responsive to tradesmen. I followed closely the development of the government law as it was in eKLEP, and there was nothing at all about the fact that VAT payers were excluded from the EET or that the government was in some other way addressing the issue of all these small businessmen. The government has been saying all along that they want to remove 200 grand from the online EET mode. cash payments, which, as I mentioned in this debate, we consider to be quite inadequate, for example, in relation to farmers' markets or other cases of small businesses. And so if the government has not, in some way, rewritten its proposal today at its meeting, which, of course, I do not know, since I was not there, the claim that the government's proposal is more favourable to businessmen is simply false. [[10.10 hours]] For this reason, I would ask, first of all, my colleagues from KSČM and ČSSD, that we discuss this proposal in a factual way. The point, in substance, is that a group of Members from six sides proposes that VAT payers be excluded from the EET. We have studied the Government's position on the proposal in detail and, through my amendment, we have removed the legislative technical shortcomings of the original amendment so that no one can actually complain that the proposal is poor quality or legislatively problematic. It's a matter of fact, whether we want the VAT payers to pay the EET, to fall on them, or not to fall on them. We believe that the turnover of a million crowns is a real profit at the limit of 300 thousand. Every year, that means somewhere around 25,000. CZK a month already profit is simply a ridiculous amount in terms of the businessman's functioning. And a comprehensive tax return is just marginal. We have increased tax revenues, rising by 100 billion this year. Crowns. We're talking about maybe 1 billion here, probably not even that, but at the same time we're going to burden every businessman with hundreds of thousands of crowns of costs, whether it's to connect to the Internet that a lot of these people don't need, a mobile cash register that a lot of these people don't need, with a whole bunch of other costs that they're going to have to have without having to make it relevant to the Treasury. And worse than cost is bureaucracy, changing the accounting system, all the bureaucratic obstacles that EET brings. I am very sorry that the ČSSD, which as one man supported this proposal in the first reading, has now turned around 180° and is about to reject it. I would still understand this if the government incorporated this amendment into its comprehensive amendment. I was hoping this would happen all the time, I was willing to support the interruption on the budget committee if that were to happen. But that didn't really happen. The government insists that the EET is to apply to VAT payers, the government insists that a third and fourth wave is to be started, where the EET is even more controversial than the restaurants, because the real possibility of control is absolutely minimal. So the good guys are gonna get sales tracking systems, burden them with costs and bureaucracy, and those who want to cheat, they're just gonna keep getting money on their hands, and the state has no way to control it. The government insists on all this. And here is a very simple proposal, which is legislatively correct, the government has even given a favourable opinion on the amendment, which removes legislative technical details. It is simply a purely factual question whether the ČSSD and the communists want the smallest traders to fall under the EET or not. OK, I can live with them saying they want it, and they're gonna vote for rejection here, but I'm sorry that instead of admitting to the truth that their policy is that they want these most vulnerable businessmen to be subject to the EET, they're hiding behind a government proposal that doesn't contain this provision. And there's absolutely no contradiction. If it is adopted by the House now in this version, then the government will adapt to it and in a comprehensive amendment, the tradesmen will be excluded, and I think that is a desirable condition. I'm asking you to support this. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u3	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Onderka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u4	Mr President, colleagues, for Mr Ferjenčík through the President. Social democracy supported this proposal at first reading, in order to put pressure on the Ministry of Finance to put pressure on the Minister of Finance, so that the government proposal would be submitted as soon as possible. I want to assure you there's nothing else to it. If you put an amendment on how the Government's proposal will be discussed in the Committee on Budgets, you will see for yourself how social democracy will vote. Don't look for any more sneaky things to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u5	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Bláha. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u6	Dear colleagues, I like the fact that people who have never done a proper business talk about how we burden businessmen. So let me just tell you what the traditional parties have prepared for us in the 30 years since the announcement at ČZPI, login to statistics, registration of packaging, change of use at the construction office, preparation of project documentation for the construction office, opinion of the sanitary station, opinion of the sanitary station, department of work, opinion of the fire rescue department, opinion of the department of conservation care, opinion of the environmental department, consent of the national institute, health card, drawing up of the HACCP documents, trade licence, professional competence, notification of the establishment at the trade office, registration of income tax, VAT registration, registration of the road tax, registration for payment of health and social insurance. It's all been introduced here by traditional or so-called traditional parties that say they're doing everything for businessmen. Twenty more types of checks for all tradesmen. So please, if you really want to do something for them, I've already challenged you once, maybe twice, maybe three times, let's start working on it. Let's cut the administrative burden. I'm ready for this, I've got a program ready, I've got points ready, and I'm willing to do my best. EET's not gonna solve this. It doesn't matter to those who pay honestly. It won't burden us at all. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Indeed, we want it to work so that we can do business equally with those who cheat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u7	I beg you to keep the time limit. Thank you. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík. Mr. Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u8	Thank you for the floor. Just a colleague named Onderk. I was hoping your pressure would lead to some changes in the EET so that the weakest wouldn't fall. I guess we just don't need to adopt the law to adopt the law. There must be some content in that law. We're discussing the content here today at the plenary. Either the non-VAT tradesmen will be there or they won't be there. The decision is yours. A colleague of Bláh. I wonder what the YES movement has done in the last four years to reduce this bureaucracy, and why, when there is a proposal on the table today that reduces at least for the smallest, it is not willing to raise its hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u9	Thank you. Another point of fact, President Stanjura. Mr Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u10	First I want to ask Mr Onderka by your means, he does not have to answer me, of course. I understood his words so that when we propose to abolish the EET for VAT payers under the Government Bill, the ČSSD will support it. Or are we just gonna sit here and talk about it? Then I ask why we don't do it now, why we want to take one financial year out of it and burden another group of entrepreneurs. About what Mr. Bláha said. I agree with the list in principle, but if you have noticed, half of it is in the Ministry of the Environment. Have you ever asked the Minister of the Environment, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Richard Brabec, who canceled the form in five years at the Ministry of the Environment? I don't. [[10.20 hours]] When you were talking about the taxes, we suggested, for example, abolishing the road tax. So one of the responsibilities you were talking about would have passed out. How did your movement vote? Against! Who was it who introduced three VAT rates instead of two? Your government! We were against it. Who opposes the abolition of property acquisition tax? Your government when we suggested it! So complain about yourself! We are also ready to work on this, but try to support our proposals sometimes, or do not criticize us. We can cancel the road tax form - if we cancel the tax! There won't be any form. We can cancel a ridiculously complex property acquisition tax form if the tax is not there. And that was already in this parliamentary term. And Mr Bláha, how did he vote on reducing red tape and abolishing unnecessary taxes? Take a look. He was against it! And then he comes in here and says, "I'm in. This is a specific case. When he was here last week, last week's House week, that means the week before last, the proposal to simplify the construction law, how did the Yes Club vote? Against! So try to support at least a slight change and a slight decline in bureaucracy and not just talk flamingly as you are ready to do something! You've had your chance, and you've wasted your chances, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u11	Your time! Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Luzar, Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me only a short reply from the pirate, the approach of social democracy and the KSČM to this issue. Although I am not a fan of any exceptions, I must say that there are areas where exceptions can be talked about. That is why I have also come to inform myself about the attitude of those involved. And I may surprise you, but there are a lot of people among our members who work as self-employed workers. They're so-called little businessmen and businessmen, and they're also trying to work honestly and work. And when I went to see them, they pointed out a problem. There is talk of VAT payers, but many of them are voluntary VAT payers. They're small, they don't make money to exceed the VAT limit, but they volunteered to be VAT payers because it's convenient for them because they trade with payers and they demand that they be payers. This group, and a pretty big group, voluntary, but you completely exclude the little ones from it. So your proposal is not complex to address this issue. And on the other hand, when I asked how they looked at it, they said yes, it's difficult, but if so, let it apply to everyone without exceptions. We'll agree to that, we'll be able to accept that. Therefore also my personal attitude in this, if the system is to work in any way, should be for everyone and without exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u13	Thank you. Let me read your apologies. Mr Kopřiva cancels his apology because he has already arrived at the meeting at 10.07. Furthermore, Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes between 10.00 and 11.30 for reasons of work, and Mr Ivan Jáč apologizes between 14.00 and 19.00 because of a doctor's visit. Another factual point - Mr Munzar, Mr Kupka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Bláha through Mr President, the list was interesting. And how did you work on that? You have introduced overuse of control reports, you have introduced EETs, you have introduced control reports, hedging orders that are overused by the Ministry of Finance, etc. So it hasn't been improving the environment for small and medium-sized businesses lately, but on the contrary, it's getting worse. Someone here said one myth to me, and it's a common argument that EET is levelling out in business relationships and in business environments. The opposite is true! With this argument came big supermarkets, because there is a big difference between a large supermarket generating big profits and a small entrepreneur trying to support himself and offering services to his surroundings. And it was the big ones that came up with this argument, because what is the actual consequence of EET in small municipalities? None, Mr President-in-Office? On the contrary! The business is canceled, the pubs are canceled, and the big ones are out of competition. That's why they welcome it, that's why they're on top of it, and that's why they're using the argument that conditions are leveling out. Here, Mr Free through Mr President, he said that it is a myth that business and pubs are ending. Mr President, I would invite you to the village of Knovíz in Kladensko, where this trade ended just after the introduction of the EET. And do you know what the practical consequence is? Residents, old residents who don't have a car, have to wait for a bus to drive to nearby Salty to buy rolls and milk. This is a practical consequence of the introduction of the EET! So it's not true that it has no impact, and it's not true that it equals business conditions, because purchasing power in big cities and villages is different. And any similar administrative intervention in the business environment can be fatal for small businesses, as has been shown by the example of EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With Mr Kupka's factual comment, Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u16	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, I would also like to respond briefly to Mr Bláha. He's been screaming about how all these traditional political parties are responsible, so I'd like to draw his attention to the clear facts through you. The bureaucratic burden for entrepreneurs has increased by 13 percent over the past five years, that is, during the reign of the YES movement and social democracy. At the moment you mentioned here what an entrepreneur must do, it means that you have made quite a significant contribution to the fact that the business is more difficult in the Czech Republic and that entrepreneurs have to spend much more time filling out all possible reports and dealing with bureaucratic burdens. Now there is a concrete proposal on the table to simplify bureaucracy and unnecessary burdens. A simple approach, practical, and I think that for entrepreneurs in the first place welcome, is simply an opportunity to take advantage of it. Moreover, in a situation where this change is correct, quality and means an immediate opportunity to really relieve entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u17	Thank you, too. Another factual point - Mr Výborný, then Mr Onderka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond to Mr Bláh by means of you, Mr President. When I heard your words, I felt like I was in Jiříkův's vision. Maybe it's worth it, I'd like you to meet a man here in the hall who, unfortunately, was here before the moment you spoke, now he's gone. He usually sits behind me, his name is Andrej Babiš, he's Prime Minister, Prime Minister. Coincidentally, you're in his MP's club. So if you're talking about having a list for six months now, I'm asking why you're not dealing with the Prime Minister, with the government within your parliamentary club, and why you're not making specific proposals to simplify the business environment to help businessmen. I mean, if it's all reasonable, we'll support it. So support today the proposal that's here, and it simplifies the environment. But here are the political proclamations and screams: I have a list here for six months and I want to do something - then I don't understand. Really, it's Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister. If you don't know him, meet him and do something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u19	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Onderka, then Mr Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I would just like to make a comment on my colleague Stanjura, who unfortunately is not present, through Mr President. I didn't quite see the proposal approved by the government today, but from the information I have at my disposal, of course, we're going to talk about things like flat-rate tax, and let's talk about whether it's worth 500 grand. turnover, or if the amount is to be up to a million. This is indeed the session of the amendments. And if there is a question about social democracy, whether it wants to relieve the smallest, that is to say, tradesmen, whether it wants to relieve other employees or entrepreneurs who do business even in their employment, of course it does. These include doctors, for example, where we think that EET is not exactly what they would need and what would be absolutely necessary. This means that social democracy is ready to discuss amendments within the budget committee, namely the government proposal to be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u21	Thank you. Mr Bláha, then Mr Volný. And there's two more, and now they're constantly multiplying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u22	I'll just do it one more time. If you want to do something, let's start with the system. There are points we don't agree on. There are points on which we agree. So if we're going to solve them, let's meet at one table and say what we have to agree on, and let's start working on that. As far as statistics are concerned, read the MIT's statistical report and there you will find how much bureaucracy has decreased. It's very simple. All you have to do is read it. The numbers are completely different. I don't pretend that the burden of entrepreneurs is bad, and I'm not satisfied with it. But I've certainly done nothing but work on GDPR for the last three months. GDPR, to explain it to small and medium. None of you did it with me! Even though I challenged you to do so. So next week, only a two-page manual for small and medium-sized people will be available on one paper that confirmed the OO... or the OOO plus the Ministry of the Interior. So I've been working on that for three months now, and it hasn't been easy at all. You've all taken your hands off it. So don't tell me we're not doing anything. I certainly do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u23	Hello. Mr. Volný, please. Then, Mr Klaus, Mr Ferjenčík, Mrs Langšádlová and Mr Bartošek. All factual points. Priority rights must last. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u24	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I have a reaction to Mr. Munzar through you. You know what, I wouldn't even react if you didn't tell me you're from Salty and the neighborhood. First of all, I want to tell you if some businessman ended a business in some village and says it's EET, I'm sorry, of course. But for me, there's far more proof that there are 20 other villages at the border, maybe smaller than here at Salty, and the shops and the pubs stayed there and told me that it didn't disturb them at all. But why did I take my word for it? We've got a friend, a lot of people here know him, maybe even a colleague of mine over there who's got him at the Salty Restaurant. He's a big businessman. He set up a hotel and restaurant for his wife. He runs it properly and honestly. And he, since I became an MP, came to me many times and said, "Honzo, do something about it." We have the same stew, the same sirloin as all the other pubs in Slaný, only we have twenty crowns more expensive. I don't have a zero on it, 'cause I don't need to make that money in a pub. And they have the price of food so low that even the purchase price of the raw materials can't match the price. And that's the alignment of the market environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u25	Thank you. Mr Klaus, after him, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u26	Good morning. I want to talk to all the market-environment levellers and respond a little bit to Mr. Výborný, who said that if he brought the rational proposal that we would support it. That is, of course, true, but I think Mr. Výborný is a little naive. Because how is it really?.. The YES movement loves the big businesses. He thinks the businessmen are a little useless. They've repeatedly reported for it. Not before the election, but in the meantime. So that's one policy. Well, Communists and Social Democrats, they kind of hate private business on principle, don't they? Class. So what are you wondering? It's clear how this vote is going to turn out. It's politics, and that's where it's headed. I think it might as well cancel the whole EET, because the purpose you intended to eliminate small businessmen in smaller towns and villages has already been achieved. All you have to do is pull out an honourable MP's background from this House and look for cities, villages, where the traditional pubs, shops, crash or close. Someone's desperate to do a manicure or something like that now, so the shops don't get emptiness. But walk with the smaller, not so rich cities and you'll see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u27	Mr. Ferjenčík. After him, Mrs Langšádlová. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'm asking the left side of the hall for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u28	Thank you for the floor. I hope for the last time, through Mr President, to my colleague Onderk. So if you're ready for the debate in question, I'm asking you to make a substantive assessment of the one-paragraph proposal and make a factual statement as to whether you agree with it or not. [[Vice-President Hamáček: through me.]] If you agree, vote for him. If you disagree, vote for rejection. And don't argue that the government is presenting a comprehensive solution. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u29	Mrs Langšádlová. After her, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mr Bláha through Mr President. I and the Economic Committee know that you may have good intentions, but we are indeed legislators here and our will, our efforts to influence these things should be through the law. Yes, we can meet somewhere at the round table looking for a match, certainly many are prepared to do so, but we express it through the laws. And even this law, which colleagues and others are defending here today, is actually an expression of our will. And just like you say, "I'm gonna make something up and I want to talk to you about it because it's good," so please, we've prepared something and we think it's good. Then you can really say it by voting. And the part. We're lawmakers, that's why it's supposed to be reflected in those laws. I understand that GDPR is a very complicated document, but in other European countries it was quite well dealt with. And the role you played, my colleague, through Mr President, is probably commendable, but it should not have been your role. This was the role of a government that just totally overslept in this, which didn't do education. She's too late to set up the laws that have something to do with it. And the part you played, and you're blaming us for not getting involved, so it's not our part. That's not the role of legislators. That's the role of executive, and in the previous and this government has failed. And I beg you very much to distinguish the role of the Chamber of Deputies with the role of executive. And you, my dear colleagues, really have a great opportunity to express your will, if you really also mind some things that concern electronic sales records. You have the opportunity to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u31	Thank you. President Bartošek and then Mr Munzar. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your way to Mr Bláh. Now that you're working so hard on GDPR, it's a shame you didn't register the people's design that solves all of this. We even wanted to put it on the agenda. You turned it down. It's just alibi talk, what you're doing here. If you really want to deal with it or if you want to deal with it, the solution is already in the House - and it is presented by the people's people. And the office you've appointed, if you're going to name it, at least use the right shortcuts. It's an Office for Personal Data Protection. And the EET. Very simple. When preparing this bill, it was the folklore who said that it would be divided into four stages and that we wanted the first two stages to be properly evaluated and then considered whether or not to continue. Of course, we wanted further steps to be supported by analysis. At this point, it is nothing else, that the proposal that is in the Chamber of Deputies is correct and good. It is only that you reject this proposal for the reason that you present yourself to the government and then beat yourself in the breasts, how you solved everything. But it's not like that. The solution exists now and here. It's on our desk. There's no reason to delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u33	Mr Munzar, then Mr Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I dare to respond to Mr. Volný. It can't be flattered like that. We both know through Mr President that every restaurant is different. It is focused on another clientele, it has other fixed costs, it has to be assessed by the device and not paused. So, this flat-rate thing, you just confirmed what I said at the beginning. But I would like to quote you, colleagues, one sentence from the Government's position on this bill. "The mandatory VAT registration when reaching the turnover limit of CZK 1 million per year is often surrounded by the reporting of lower sales." According to information from the Ministry of Finance, more than 60 percent of all entrepreneurs even declare a turnover of less than half a million crowns. In other words, the Treasury tells us that in order for businessmen not to have to pay taxes, they're cutting their sales by half! These sentences show the government's approach and the Ministry of Finance's approach to entrepreneurs. A permanent mistrust that transforms itself into a government for constant control. [[10.40 hours]] Let's all ask ourselves what small businessmen are to us. Only the source of taxes? And that's why the tax jihad is here? Or we will appreciate them for being able to take care of themselves, not burdening our social system, offering services to their surroundings, and often employing someone else. After all, small and medium-sized enterprises employ more than 60 percent of the population. Let's think about that. Let's think about the base. Let us no longer focus on the individual details, but let us think about what businessmen really mean to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Bláha, then Mr Faltýnek and then Mr Strýček. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u36	I'd just like to talk to the villages that we've been talking about driving out businessmen. If we don't want to chase businessmen out of the villages, we have to get a job there first. The work was there, but because we joined the EU and succumbed to subsidy incentives, we slowly drove them out of the villages. Today, we are not self-sufficient in the production of pork, only 52 percent, and, of course, agricultural production in villages is falling. Thanks to the fact that there isn't exactly agricultural production, the people who normally worked there stop shopping and who spent all day there. Maybe they went to work there. As a result, the business could live, and even small businessmen who participated in it could live. Let us go ahead and support - and I call you through the President, let us deal with the fact that today's pork buying is only CZK 25, while the cost of production is 32! I've told you all this on the Economic Committee, on the Audit Committee, let's do something about it. The neighboring company in the village where I live was worth CZK 3 million in four months minus. This may make them stop working again in six months, and they won't be able to go to the store because they're going to work in the city. What would they do in that village? So think about it. What did we do to drive businessmen out of the village? Because there's no job opportunity. Let's create it, we'll adjust the landscape, so we can get the shops to function normally, the pubs to function normally, because people in the village will live. They won't live in the city, but they'll live in the village. So think about it and maybe you'll get it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u37	Now, Chairman Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u38	Good morning, colleagues. I did not want to prolong this debate and speak at all, but I would like to ask us all two questions through Mr President. Question number one: Is the Czech Republic a member of the European Union? Yes. Milan Brázdil says yes. Is it normal to pay taxes in the European Union? Is that normal? I say yes for myself. [[Noise and laughter in the hall.]] My friends, why am I saying this? I've been going to Parndorf for many years, it's a village in Burgenland by Lake Nesider, it's an outlet, Jana Černochová knows him, we're probably going there together. [[Big commotion and laughter in the hall.]] Not together, but... [[Applause, the speaker laughs too.]] I also bought this suit with a significant discount. Every visit every two or three months, I experience the same story. A saleswoman in every store is giving me a receipt. I say I don't want the receipt. And she says - and they're Slovenky, which speaks Slovak, so I understand them, even Rakušanka I understand. So they say, we're fined, we just have to give you the receipt, we have a mandatory register and we have to give you the receipt. Austria is probably also a member of the European Union. In Italy, if you buy ice cream, the shopkeeper will run up to you and give you a ticket for the ice cream. So that's just my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u39	Mr. Member Strýček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the President, I would like to respond to Mr Munzar's words regarding the tax jihad. I think there's a lot of you who can go back in their minds until 2012, when it was the ODS government that pushed the VAT increase from 14 to 15 per cent at the bottom rate, from 20 to 21 per cent at the top rate. I'm not going to discuss diapers here, but they approved an increase in property transfer tax from 3 to 4 percent, and most interestingly, they approved the abolition of tax reductions for businessmen who now hold such a claim and increased their income taxes from 15 to 22 percent. So I'm just short on the tax jihad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u41	Thank you. Mr Farský, after him Mrs Majerová, then Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your way to Mr. Bláh. I really liked the description of the evacuating village and the crumbling shops. I'll be glad to see him pass it on to his government, because one of the recipes is very simple. Comply with the European Commission's long-term pressure and finally stop the subsidies so that the biggest beneficiaries are not the largest companies in agriculture, but that they really go to those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs so that they can employ people so that they can rebuild agriculture in the regions so that life can be there. [[applause from the right]] This is not only a recipe for employment, it is also a recipe for better soil, so that we do not have ten times the size of average farms in the West, than average plains. We're still here in the form of subsidies, continuing to line up the land. And the fact that this government is preventing subsidies for agriculture from being imposed is precisely what Mr Bláha described here. I'll be glad if he doesn't just address it to us, but he's going to address it to his government because the problem he's describing is exactly what he's causing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u43	Thank you. Mrs Majerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u44	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. I would also like, through the President, to respond to my colleague Blaha in that sense - you are talking about a distorted market thanks to grant titles. Do you realize what side you're sitting here on and who's distorting the market? I would also like to add that the only thing the tradesmen want, and perhaps that is why the villages, as you describe, are evacuating, is that the government doesn't keep throwing sticks at them and letting them work. All they want is to work and not be burdened with ever-increasing bureaucracy, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u45	Thank you, too. Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u46	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I did not want to interfere with this debate at all. I think we're clear on both sides who's going to take this, but I'd like to respond here through you to my colleague Strýček, I hope I'm saying the right name. Yes, you are right, in 2012, at a time of economic crisis, the government of civil democrats - by the way, the Civil Democratic Party was not alone - raised the taxes you were talking about. But it was for three years. And 2015 - that's history, today we have 2018. What have you done with them? Nothing at all!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u47	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u48	So for the last time, I'm going to explain what's going on with the subsidies for agriculture. If you were to talk to those agricultural businessmen or small businessmen, you would find that they are 90% satisfied with the amount of subsidies, but they are not satisfied that we cannot control imports of pre-oiled food from EU countries. That means it's exactly what I was talking about. Today, meat is imported from the surrounding states for 25 crowns. And yet the piggy's production price is 32. So do the math. Farmers say: we don't mind the amount of subsidies, all we care about is the fact that when the subsidies were negotiated, the price of the euro was different than it is today. So there's five percent or seven percent difference in price. So they're getting less subsidies today than the price they agreed on. Those subsidies were negotiated by you, the traditional parties, not us pledges, as you call us. And I just want to say once again that in this agriculture, most of the small ones are happy with the amount of subsidies. They are only dissatisfied with the fact that we are unable to control imports of subsidised food from other countries. That's what we should focus on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u49	Looks like we've exhausted our factual remarks, and now we have four performances with priority rights, so far. Madam Secretary of Finance, then Mr Farský, then Mr rapporteur and then President Bělobrádek. In that order. So, Madam Secretary, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me briefly summarize the development of the amendment to the Sales Registration Act and the related VAT Act, then briefly summarized the amendment that I have today...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u51	Colleagues and colleagues, please remain calm. This applies both to the left side of the hall and to the right side of the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u52	... which I presented to the government today. And then allow me such a small summary and an opinion on this amendment, which is being discussed today. Already in the autumn of 2017 - and I know what I'm talking about because I was Deputy Minister of Finance for Taxation and Customs - the preparation of incentives for change started following the existing functioning of the EET. We started discussing the problems that the application practice brought. This means, above all, we have been dealing with various suggestions about the obligation to register only on the territory of the Czech Republic. Then we discussed exempting payments via the Internet, because they started - I have had a whole series of negotiations with these associations - because there were technical problems that we eventually projected into the novel. We began to debate the possibility of some exemption for taxpayers with flat-rate taxes, but with a different flat-rate tax than that mentioned here by President Okamura, because the view of flat-rate tax is, of course, double. We already have one in the Income Tax Act for years. And the second one he spoke of is a German model which, of course, would mean a very difficult job for several, I dare say, years. I'm sure one term couldn't do it. And I don't know if he would even have political support here, because it would mean that basically everyone pays some kind of tax. That's the thing about Germany. That everyone would just pay some kind of tax. This means according to the region, according to the place and so on. This means that it would be a completely different concept, because today we have a whole range of entrepreneurs who do not pay taxes legally, because they apply discounts and deductions and do not reach the tax. Then we discussed the exclusion of prepaid telecommunications services, commercial air transport, gambling, where the real introduction of EET would be associated with huge technical problems. Finally, practice has shown that this is not necessary, because this scheme is sufficiently regulated and is sufficiently accessible. All of this has been taken into account and seen since the fall of 2017. The decision of the Constitutional Court, issued in December 2017, brought a fundamental view of the matter. This was crucial in that the Constitutional Court confirmed the legitimacy of the electronic record of sales as a legitimate instrument for verifying tax obligations, but at the same time had reservations about this law and we obviously had to work very actively into the amendment. And we have worked them unreservedly, with full respect, of course, of the Constitutional Court. This means that as early as January 2018, we immediately started to incorporate the Constitutional Court's decisions into our elaborate considerations. Just to sum up. The founding of the Constitutional Court - it was number 26/16 - was announced on 15 December 2017 and cancelled Section 5 letters. (b), part of the provisions of § 18 para. 2, card payment, § 10 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of CRR 3, authorisation by the Government to issue a regulation establishing sales which may be registered in a simplified scheme which is not a registered sale and which, from the date of entry into force of the Act, is not a registered sale. So he revoked the government's mandate to in some way lay down exceptions in the form of government regulations. Which we used only once or twice. Once in the case of blind fellow citizens, blind businessmen, and for the second time in the Christmas season for the seller of freshwater fish. It then annulled Article 20 (1) (b) of the basic Regulation. Article 4 (1) (a) Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2, enter the VAT number on the receipt in particular in conjunction with the birth number, and part of the provisions of § 37 para. Phase one, phase three and phase four. This ultimately meant that phase three and stage four had been postponed until this amendment came into effect. It was therefore necessary to respond to this finding in the novel. Card payments must continue to be recorded by voucher payment. We didn't return credit card payments to the novel. I'll be talking about that in a moment when I'm summing up today's amendment to the government. We only returned the VAT number where its part is not a birth number, and of course we are working comprehensively to change this system, but it concerns the entire public administration. For the first time, the Constitutional Court drew attention to this problem in relation to the EET, but let us see that we have the birth number as an identifier across the entire public administration for a number of long years. However, in the area of Financial Administration, we are working on this to create a new identifier. It's not too complicated. It's complicated technically, and it's going to be very expensive, but we're working on it. We had to take to heart, in particular, the opinion of the Constitutional Court, in order for the government to set a regime for exemptions, exemptions, or some regime in such a way as to relieve the smallest who called for this relief the most, while setting it up once and for all. Because any change - and I think this is right - will only be implemented on the basis of the law in the future. As early as 12 to 19 January 2018, we sent the draft amendment, the Ministry of Finance, I think, to internal commentary proceedings. At that time, as a concept, we had a so-called flat-rate tax. This means that this is not a flat-rate tax, as President Okamura spoke of it, but it is a flat-rate tax that is now enshrined in the paragraph, I suspect 7a of the Income Tax Act, which the entrepreneur must ask for, must meet certain conditions. Last year, as part of the 2018 package, we loosened those conditions even further, because very few people are asking for this flat-rate tax, about a hundred entrepreneurs - natural persons in the Republic. [[11.00 hours]] That's what we were thinking. It takes some sort of agreement between the tax administrator and the businessman. And if the deal is made, then the businessman doesn't actually file tax returns and pays the agreed tax. But there are certain criteria, conditions. Of course, they must be able to back up the protocol with the tax administrator, so it is not a very simple regime and not everyone has to reach it and is connected with a certain more demanding administration. However, it was originally one of the options that we wanted to go and in the internal commentary procedure we still had this option. In the period from 20 March to 19 April, there was an external commentary procedure and in the context of this external commentary procedure, and before it was just launched, I initiated a detailed meeting at the Ministry of Finance, where I invited all the associations and all the chambers that cover entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic, all the important ones I know, I will not list them here, but they were all present, and we presented three options of solution as the Ministry of Finance. One of them was this flat-rate tax, which we were very much inclined to at the time. However, one of the variants was the option that finally, in quotation marks, prevailed, took the business unions and chambers the most, and that was reflected in the amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales, which I presented to the government today. The essential thing in this amendment, which, of course, responds to the Constitutional Court's decision, is that for the vast majority of the smaller entrepreneurs - and I will immediately say the conditions approved by the government - a new off-line regime is being introduced, that is, a regime where they do not need to have electronic records of sales, they do not need to register electronically provided that they meet the conditions laid down by this amendment and ask the tax administrator, who, if they meet those conditions, decides to grant them this off-line scheme. I would like to emphasise - before I say the terms, I would like to stress that it will be up to the free decision of the businessmen, the entrepreneurs. This means, if they want to register, they prefer electronic records of sales, so of course they can, but if they meet the conditions, they can apply for this off-line mode. And now for the conditions. Firstly, it must be a natural person, VAT unpaid, not more than two employees, and most importantly, with a maximum cash payment of up to CZK 200,000. I stress cash payments, not income. Of course, we were based on some considerations when we set this amount of cash payments. I decided for the cash payment parameter just after the big negotiations with the associations, with the business unions and chambers and for the simple reason that they essentially convinced me in this - we originally considered the income parameter, we wanted to go to a higher amount, but in the end they dominated the cash payment parameter because they essentially convinced me that there could be a businessman who would meet the conditions, it would take 900,000 income and would only have cash payments of 20 000 and would have had to register. So that's why we went to the 200,000 parameter. The amount was not actually invented by looking out the window or by my colleagues, but we were based on some logic that it is the smallest amount of income, 199 000 is the smallest amount of income, when the taxpayer, the trader, who has a deduction, reaches a discount only on the taxpayer, will still reach a discount of CZK 5 000, which we introduced at the same time as the Act on Recording of Sales, when he can actually deduct this discount from the tax base. So we came out of this logic and, of course, we were based on certain numbers that we have in RIA and in the explanatory statement. But it must be underlined that the Financial Administration does not have data on cash payments comprehensively, logically, because it does not have an overview of all four waves, so this data is based on revenue. I would like to stress, it is a solution that we have discussed, discussed, passed through an external commentary procedure, most contradictions have been settled, there are about three contradictions that I have reported to the government today, and it has actually been approved in the wording, as I have put it, with a small adjustment, which, however, concerns the accompanying VAT law. We are introducing four exceptions to this amendment. I was talking about an off-line regime, and now I'm talking about exceptions. First, they are telecommunications services, that is, sales from telecommunications services and related services, that is, credit drawing, so that each SMS does not have to follow the receipt, which is technically impossible and which was in the commentary procedure of the original law in 2015, which was approved, did not appear and brought application practice. We are introducing a permanent exception for all types of gambling, because gambling is so regulated today, and it would actually - I have dealt with a whole range of subjects - just wasn't technically possible at all. Commercial air transport, e.g. CSA, he's selling a plane ticket in Singapore, so it's hard to report it. And we take over from the government's decree approved by the previous government, a permanent exception for blind citizens. It is about a thousand to two thousand tradesmen, various piano tuners, masseurs who currently do not have a cashier's facility available, but we have decided to leave this exception in permanent exceptions. Of course, we also respond in other details to the Constitutional Court's decision, whether it is a tax identification number, where it definitely does not have to be stated on the receipt if it includes a birth number. We're dealing with indirect representation, where there were certain problems. What is important is that the amendment also includes the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, and we are implementing it mainly, it is the main objective of this amendment, which is why this part is not in the tax package, which I also submitted to the government today, but this part is part of the amendment of the EET Act, because that is what we associate with it. We reduce where the directive allows us to do so to the second reduced rate of 10 per cent for VAT of the selected service, especially the selected service. We want to motivate the third and fourth wave - I don't know, hairdressers, cosmetics, household cleaning, childcare, old, disabled citizens, small repairs of shoes, leather products, textile products, clothing, bicycles, and again catering services, which we have already reduced from 21 to 15 percent in connection with the first wave, so now we are actually reducing them the second time to 10 percent. The effectiveness of the amendment is not set by a fixed date, logically. We're counting on some legisvacation time. We do not know how long the legislative process will be, it will depend on the constructiveness of the debate, especially this Chamber of Deputies, but I think that we can manage it, as Mr Onderka said, in a rather rapid time. It would probably still be appropriate for me to comment on this amendment. I guess no one expects anything from me except that I don't agree with him. A whole series of arguments have been made here, so I will not repeat them, but the fundamental one has also been heard here. We've prepared a comprehensive amendment, which we discussed. I didn't shorten a day's notice procedure. She went through an internal reminder procedure, an external reminder procedure. Besides, I've been debating with all the representatives of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Chambers. We discussed it with them, we took the utmost account of the comments. Don't worry about government novels, let's let her into the legislative process when she gets here. He'll be here in June. Let's give her a chance, let's give her a chance at a comprehensive novel, let's give it a chance to have a debate at the level of the budget committee. I believe that a number of representatives of business associations and chambers will come to support this government amendment, because the worst thing that they say could happen if the Act on halfway sales had remained, that is, it would actually remain mandatory only for part of the entrepreneurs. And it's not about trusting the businessmen. On the contrary, it's about a great deal of trust in an entrepreneur. Trusting that most of them are honest and fulfilling their tax obligations. But why are they paying for the minority group that exists? And let's not hide the truth, shall we? [[11.10 hours]] So, of course, I logically disagree with this amendment. I don't see compatibility, I don't see any problem. And then there was a whole series of opinions about the disturbance of restaurants at the end of the story. On Friday or Monday, I don't know exactly, I got within the scope of press monitoring, I believe that you may all have this at your disposal, the research that the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, or not the Ministry of Finance, has done, no research by us, and one of the associations that has long supported the activities of the Ministry of Finance and which has also participated, you know, I work with everyone without distinction, so she has submitted research on the fact that this year, historically, the largest number of small pubs and restaurants, is absolutely the highest. And she even made a conversion to the population and compared it to the surrounding countries. So while we have one pub of 265 inhabitants, which is similar to Austria for example, it is already 501 inhabitants in Germany, 575 in Poland and 780 in the UK. So please don't scare our businessmen. And believe that mostly they support the settlement of the business environment. And when it's connected to an even bigger tax collection, it's a plus for all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u53	Good morning, honourable Members. That was the word of Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I now have two factual points and three applications for the debate. First - Mr Karel Schwarzenberg's factual comment, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u54	Mr President, honourable Members, 20 minutes ago in this House, the term agricultural businessman was used. I would like to use the President to address the previous speaker, if that is what he meant in the Czech lands of an almost extinct animal for whom the name of a peasant existed in the Czech language. I beg your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u55	Thank you for respecting the time and question in the factual context. Now, therefore, Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment. A colleague of Farský will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to the Minister's speech. That's where the 200,000 cash payments are going. When we look at it really, that means some CZK 17,000 of income in cash payments per month, which makes some CZK 6,000 a month at a margin of 30%. The amount is absolutely ridiculous for entrepreneurs in segments where they actually have cash income, such as restaurants or farmers' markets, which I often mention. I just think that the line is set extremely low, and that's why I think our proposal to remove all VAT payers from it is much better and more meaningful. And that's what we're voting about here, whether this 200,000 is going to be here or the million we're proposing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u57	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mr Farský. Mr. Juránek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the difficult debate, my esteemed colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the very simple proposal that has been made here. The reason is simple. I think we can agree that the state should serve and not interfere with the fact that it should lend help to active people and that it should allow them to start a business with as little obstacles as possible. At the same time, I think we agree that trust, trust in people, trust in society should prevail first, that not everyone steals, that not everyone who starts a business is doing it to reduce taxes, but trust that the Czech nation is a nation of smart, capable, skilled people. This proposal is heading in exactly this direction. We want those who decide to do business to make one of the many obstacles that have been raised here and are listed to make one of the many obstacles and complications and expressions of distrust at the very first moment when they decide to become a taxpayer, so that at that moment it is made easier for him to make it easier, and that, in a situation where he starts to thrive in business, in a situation where he already gets to a certain level of income, he becomes a VAT payer, then this obligation will eventually pass on to him. It's a thing that motivates people who want to succeed, shows them that the state doesn't look at them first as cheaters and thieves, but as people who want to take their destiny into their own hands and try to prove something. And that's one of the most important moments in every society. Because if you look at everyone as thieves and approach them like that, it's the best recipe for them to become thieves. And if you look at people in this way and through the optics of this law and elementary distrust, it's precisely that it doesn't lead to better tax collection. This leads to more complications, more complications. And in the short term, and I apologize when I talk about better tax collection, so I don't think about months and years, I think about what this Czech Republic will look like in five, ten, fifteen years. But in this horizon, of course, it hurts the economy, because locking, pushing out, deflecting from business can lead to a rise in tax revenues in the short term, but in the long run, people stop doing business because when someone treats you like a thief, you don't have the appetite at all. And that is the substance of this proposal. Let's give people a chance to succeed so they can enter the business, so the obstacles they get at that point are as little as possible. Of course, I would love it if it worked the way that when someone wants to start a business, for example, they arrive at a business office, they say, I'd like to do business, and at that office they would say yes, we'll arrange everything for you, because we're glad that you want to become a tax payer and feed us mediated here. That's an ideal that if we get to, it'll be a long journey. But this is the first step that should help. And when it came out here that some revenue may have grown in the short term, we also have to figure out the cost. They are hundreds of new workers who have been admitted to EET control. And it's also in case the one that goes through from my point of view is a very bad government proposal, which was introduced here, that perhaps the removal of those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs by issuing paper receipts that they'd previously cash at the financial office to hand them over somewhere every quarter... I mean, it's... Just imagine the agenda of how many other people are going to control it, how many more people are going to stand on it, and how much is going to pay off. And the government, from my point of view, started from the wrong end here. Indeed, in those koruna items covered by these amounts and in these small amounts of EET, the state budget is not being implemented. The leaks are somewhere else, and they're in billions. Those are koruna bonds. These are subsidies that are drawn by those who do not have them. And then when it's trying to fill the budget through the fact that it's going to kneel on the smallest ones, the first active ones who want to enter, it's really not a path to prosperity. Because if we want a successful state, they have to stand on successful people. If we want prosperity, then the state must be built on trust, otherwise it's just subverting the future of this state. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u59	I thank my colleague Farský and now Mr Juránek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. And above all, ladies - I have to start with myself first and apologize for not wearing my jacket. I apologize especially to the two ladies who brought this to my attention, and I will keep an eye on it for the future. The second thing is that I am glad to be the rapporteur on this matter. At this point, as I've been writing all this down, I feel like everyone here wants to help small businessmen. So I say, we want to help them, too, for KDU-ŠSL. I thank the Minister very much for introducing us here to an amendment to the law in which a number of problems are solved, not just one problem that we are dealing with today. However, as rapporteur, I would like to show this in comparison, because only one of the parameters mentioned by the Minister is one that we are dealing with at this point. That one parameter concerns small businessmen. We had him on the Committee on Budgets, he had some mistakes, and my colleague Ferjenčík managed to remove them, so that the entire Committee on Budgets - the whole Committee on Budgets - agreed that this was a good solution. So I want to stress one thing. It was such a good solution that the Committee on Budgets voted in favour of Mr Ferjenčík's amendment. The reason that has been raised here - and, of course, I will then have to say, as rapporteur, that first we will vote on the motion for rejection because it has been - so the reason why I am talking about it now is that the amendment, which, or the law that the Ministry submits through the Minister, addresses very well all things, is only worse in this parameter. The parameter that was set to the Committee on Budgets, the one that is in this proposal, is clearly better, for the simple reason that it involves a higher set of those it touches, and it is almost all of them included in the proposal to the Government. So I want to say: if we want to help small craftsmen, we can be in favour today and, at the same time, we can support all the efforts and all the things that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister have come up with. I didn't want to be in those notes that are for two minutes, because we were talking about a lot of other things other than this law. I'm just stressing one thing. Yes, this proposal can come in exactly the form it is, as an amendment to the amendment prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The catch is that then some may not agree with other modified parameters and that in the end the consistency could be much smaller. That is why I, as rapporteur, will certainly express myself, and I will have to say this once more as rapporteur, I will oppose rejection. I will subsequently be in favour of the amendment, which has improved this amendment, if the rejection does not pass. I will be in favour of the proposal, for the amendment that has improved this amendment, by my colleague Ferjenčík's amendment. And, of course, I will also be for this law. It is also in line with how we really want to help small entrepreneurs. I'd like us to get out of here and say that we all want to help them. And to consider, after all, the time remaining for us to vote, whether we really can support this and then support all the other parameters raised by the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u61	I thank the rapporteur and we will continue. Mr Bělobrádek is now registered and then Vice-President Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u62	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I just want to repeat the genesis. The previous government, which approved the EET, had in its programming statement and basically in the coalition agreement that it would be intended only for certain types of entrepreneurs. In principle, we can sum up and simplify this, phase one and phase two. That in the end we were rolled up and finally we achieved at least that, despite the brutal violation of these agreements at the beginning of the coalition, to postpone phase three and stage four, which we succeeded, and it turned out that we were right. In principle, the question of the Constitutional Court's decision was partly right. The point was that what the Minister here said and the fact that it should apply to everyone, so we thought from the outset - and it can be explained by several letters to the Ministry of Finance and to the then Prime Minister, when we pointed out that it does not make sense for some people. So we have proposed a few different options from that of just VAT payers, so that it doesn't really apply to those who don't pay any taxes anyway, so that there are different other parameters that should prevent those for whom it doesn't really make sense, it's just the administration, so that it doesn't. The second thing is, if you look at how the EET works now, so I think, when examples from abroad have been given here, so if you look at us, I don't know what your experience is, but you can also meet today that the receipt is simply not issued to you. And when you ask for it, they look at you strangely. I think that here the Treasury's supervisory bodies should focus on keeping up with what's valid, because the experience is that the honest do it, and the dishonest do it anyway, and so far they're not gonna get hurt, and apparently the examples are. The third thing that concerns the EET. Of course, it is another administration that is meant to make really honest taxes pay. On the other hand, we must realize that if it were to end only for those who do not really pay and go around, and for those who avoid them, of course, it doesn't make any sense. On the contrary, we wanted it, and so it was agreed that the cost should be borne by the state. This is also not happening, and we think that there is also a great deal of room in this case to mitigate these parameters. So I recommend to the Minister of Finance that she look at those letters that we sent a few years ago, which were rational, which actually pointed out that the overall introduction of the EET is not in the logic of the matter and really will only help if it falls on people who don't make sense. The state won't choose on them, it's useless administration. And I would also like to think about whether the control authorities are actually going as they should. When you look at some stores like cheap goods or curfews, sometimes getting a receipt there is really a rarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u63	Thank you, Mr Bělobrádek. Now, President Okamura with his performance. Last logged in so far. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that after the debate that we have had, at least we all agree in front of the public that the aim of all tax changes is the prosperity of the country, a condition where the state effectively manages the money that it is able to use effectively for the benefit of the citizens, and the amount of money collected is enough to cover the needs of the state and at the same time not liquidate those who are taking the money away. However, the problem of businessmen and companies is not just the amount of money collected, although it is a very big problem for many. The other problem is the bureaucratic burden. And so far, governments, including the ANO movement, have done absolutely nothing, virtually. On the contrary, they have increased the bureaucratic burden. And this is what the previous government of the ANO, CSSD and KDU-ČSL movement participated in, and, of course, the current government of the ANO movement continues in this bureaucratic burden. There are hundreds of thousands of citizens in the country who are willing and able to feed themselves as businessmen, craftsmen, self-employed people. But many can't do one thing: they can't do paperwork, they can't write income reports, they can't do spending, they can't fill out complicated tax forms. [[11.30 hours]] The Ministry of Finance has prepared its version of the EET amendment, which is to be an alternative to the proposal that we are discussing here and which is also presented by the SPD. The Minister of Finance's proposal assumes that low-income entrepreneurs who are also not VAT payers could start registering sales in the next year without Internet access. However, they would have to use paper receipts provided by the Ministry of Finance and send sales data to the Financial Administration on a quarterly basis. A large part of those who fall under the terms proposed by the Ministry are people who have such low turnovers that they would not pay any tax under current parameters anyway. In the debate about EET, it keeps repeating how much more the state has chosen. But this mantra can't be the only target of the government. The goal must be to make people live better. Of the dozens of debates with tradesmen, I know that the most they are not worried about taxes, but about bureaucracy. Many of them would rather pay even more once a year than they do today, but they would get rid of paperwork all year round. And it's not just a problem for small businessmen who don't have paper cells. Large firms, too, are far more concerned with bureaucracy, complex formalities, and obstruction of authorities than the level of taxes itself. Today we attract investors for tax holidays and cheap labour, which is not quite good. But the road should be completely different. Let us draw investors into a simple business environment, where you will start the company from day to day, where it will be easy to obtain a building permit or other permit and where the Office will not bother you at every step. And in this spirit, let us compare the proposals for amending the EET Act, both this one, which we are co-submitting, and the government one. What's better? To exchange one bureaucracy for another, or at least parts of those who feed themselves and their surroundings separately, to relieve and help those who do not want anything from the state, but are, on the contrary, beneficial? I will therefore reiterate the SPD's position that we are promoting the abolition of the EET for businessmen and the replacement of flat-rate taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-004-077.u65	I thank Vice-President Okamur and I have no application for a debate, and I am ending the debate. Before we continue, I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, an apology to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Jaroslava Němcová from 16 o'clock for work reasons. We can continue by voting on the motion for rejection, as the rapporteur has submitted, and then, if this proposal does not pass, we would vote on the amendments, if necessary, but only after the first issue. I'm gonna go get my co-workers from the lobby. I'll sign you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. There is a proposal before us to vote at the beginning of the third reading that was held in the debate at second reading, namely a motion to reject it. We will decide on this proposal as soon as the number of entries is settled. [[Member Turek reports that his voting equipment is not working.]] I'm gonna try to check it out again, and I'm gonna ask you to re-registration. Are you okay now, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] Then we'll wait until there's no problem with the technical equipment... I'm assuming the number of entries has stabilized. We will decide in the vote number 211 on the motion for rejection. That is what I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 211, from 173 present for 98, against 74. The motion was accepted. The bill has therefore been rejected, we will not continue. I'm done with point 77. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the representatives of the appellants. We will continue with the point
