ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, as amended, and some other laws /German Press 57/ - First Reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. This proposal is a proposal to achieve the implementation of the relevant European directive, which is introduced by the so-called 'European Directive'. a European investigative order. It has to be said that the implementation deadline has already expired on 22 May 2017, so we are relatively late. Exceptionally, it was not the Ministry of Justice's fault, but the elections which had already been made in the House did not release them for the final hearing. [[15.20 hours]] Otherwise, I don't think the proposal is controversial. It is simply the introduction of an institute of a European investigative order so that when a European investigative order is issued in one of the Member States, so that our right can respond to it and can carry out the investigation order. I think that's enough to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u4	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present a report to House press number 57. The Government's draft law, which is the transposition of Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Decision 2014/41 of 13 April 2014 on a European Criminal Investigation Order, was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies and sent to Members on 18 January 2018. The transposition period of that directive was set by 22 May 2017, i.e. the proposal is submitted before the first reading after the expiry of the time that the Czech Republic had to implement that directive. The next date is 19 July 2017, when a call was sent by the European Commission pursuant to Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is the first step towards the so-called administrative part of the infringement procedure by a Member State. The original transposition regulation, which was submitted to the House during the previous term of office as House press 925 at the end of 2016, was not discussed by the House. The Guarantee Committee of the Press 57 was designated by the Constitutional Legal Committee. The draft law aims to amend a number of laws, but in particular it concerns Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, as well as Criminal Codes, Act on State Liability for Damage caused in Power Enforcement by Decision or by Maladministration and Act on Certain Infractions. The majority of the material of the government proposal relates to the Institute of European Investigation Order to be issued by the issuing State for the purpose of carrying out specific investigative acts for the collection of evidence in the State executing. An investigation order should be issued where it is found that the evidence sought is necessary and proportionate for the purpose of the procedure, that the investigation procedure chosen is necessary and proportionate for the collection of the evidence in question and that it is necessary for another Member State to be involved in the collection of such evidence by issuing a European investigation order. The order issued shall allow the execution of such acts which may otherwise be carried out by an institution in criminal proceedings in the executing State. Where applicable, the executing authority shall use an operation other than that required in cases where the required action exists, in a similar national case it would be available (?), for example, if the risk of a crime is not met, or if less invasive action can be used as well. Where there are also compelling reasons to believe that the execution of the required investigative act would lead to a breach of the fundamental right of the person concerned and that the executing State would thus infringe its obligations concerning the protection of fundamental rights recognised in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the European Union, the execution of the European Investigation Order should be refused by the executing State. As a standard, the efficiency requirement of the operation is balanced by the principle of proportionality and necessity. In order to ensure rapid, effective and consistent cooperation in criminal matters between Member States, relatively short time limits are set for the proposal to set a time limit for the assessment of the European investigative order to the executing judicial authority within 30 days and, in the event of compliance with the conditions laid down, the order must be executed within 90 days. The form of the operation may take several different forms. These are acts taken from the participation of representatives of the institutions in the conduct of acts, such as interrogation, takeover of a person restricted to personal freedom, the conduct of videoconferencing or telephone interviews, the provision of information on bank and other accounts and payment transactions, the monitoring of a person or thing, the use of an agent or the pretending to transfer for wiretaps. The proposal also provides for the execution of a cross-border wiretap without synergies with the executing State, where domestic States are notified of this procedure and may prohibit such a procedure under certain conditions. Furthermore, the Act contains an adjustment to the new infringement of the non-disclosure obligation pursuant to § 8 para. 7 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with sanctions for natural persons or legal persons of up to CZK 500 000. The offence consists in the disclosure of information relating to criminal proceedings by third parties, such as mandatory actors of cooperation. According to the petitioner, this provision aims, on the one hand, to protect the presumption of innocence of the suspect or accused person and to limit the leaking of information that may obstruct the investigation. It should be noted that this provision does not have a direct relationship with the transposition and is to consider whether the obligation of confidentiality should be enforced in this way. The amendment also contains terminology in relation to the change in EU legislation. Rather, a formal problem is the particularity of renumbering § 357 and § 358, which is standardly contrary to government legislative rules. The petitioner points out that this practice has already been accepted in this law. The reason for this is the frequent amendment of the Law on Judicial Cooperation, which partially paralyzed the Criminal Code before the department into its own law. However, it is a question of why this legislative technical procedure is to be tolerated in one law, not in other laws. It can therefore be concluded that we have a draft law after the transposition period, which contributes to a better investigation of criminal offences. Therefore, I recommend that we start the second reading and deal with any problematic parts with the petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I'm asking who's applying. With priority rights, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u6	Thank you. Technically, I have to go at this stage. I ask the honourable House whether it would reduce the deadline for the committee hearing by 30 days and, therefore, for 30 days, with the delay I would like to justify, I would like to point out that we are indeed... The then government passed this law already on 21 September 2016, almost a year before the expiration of the transposition deadline. Unfortunately, the last House didn't get to him properly, so he's here again. Indeed, we have already been formally alerted to the fact that although everyone knows that we had the law prepared among the first, we still do not have it approved. And I'm begging you to cut back on that deadline so we can make this right as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u7	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if there's anyone else who's interested. Mr. Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think I have nothing quite against this standard as it is presented to us because we have nothing else to do. The more fundamental problem is that we are in a situation where we have nothing left. These are the things that are to be discussed in the House before they are approved in the European institutions. We're supposed to have a discussion here. Yeah, everything's understated today, so there's really not much more going on. I will have a few technical questions about this, such as whether we will conduct wiretaps under the conditions laid down by our Code of Criminal Procedure, respectively. for acts laid down in our Code of Criminal Procedure, or for acts laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ireland, Portugal or the country concerned, which is therefore not fully apparent here, when those invasions of privacy are possible upon request of a European investigative order. But the problem is that these are things that are to be discussed in the House much earlier than they are signed at European level. And that's where we're supposed to lead... After that, we're always built here just before the thing's done. That's how they all agreed. Everyone has agreed that anyone from any state of the European Union can go to the Czech Republic and say: here, prosecute him, follow his accounts, eavesdrop on him, and I will only give you the necessary documentation. And, yes, of course, we have some rules there that, for example, these actions must be mutually criminal. I would say that at least this rule is maintained and belongs to the rules of civilised international cooperation. However, I feel that it is not completely clarified - the very invasive interventions. And it has to do with the point that we're going to discuss tomorrow in the tax system. If these invasive interferences into human privacy that we're always weighing on pharmacies, and we're saying, this is still possible, we're still willing to accept wiretapping in this act. And then all of a sudden, we find ourselves admitting wiretaps in our very specific activities. And if someone invents it, even according to 390, with the technical assistance of another Member State, that means that we have to do it, in fact, when someone from the other end of Europe invents it on the basis of crimes that we would not allow to do at all, then suddenly there is a possibility. [[15.30 hours]] Now I'm not suggesting rejection or anything. There's nothing much we can do about it in real life. I am merely expressing my deep regret about why we are suffering here with some Czech laws and some balances when this is the first time - and it is not the first time, I say, in the tax code we will discuss this tomorrow - we can always go around the European institutions agreement and say: we will all prosecute everything throughout Europe on the basis of the rules that we have agreed here and which this House will never see, which may in some form approve the European Parliament. But we know how the European Parliament reads its standards. I am merely expressing my deep concern about this and merely asking the Minister what is going on with the wiretapping or other invasive - whether they will be guarded that they are in the rules of the Czech Republic and what can be permitted in the Czech Republic, or whether it will really be possible to do so according to what can be permitted in Poland, Romania, Ireland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u9	I thank you and look forward to the participation of the President of the Constitutional Committee at the meeting of the Committee Chairs, where we will address precisely the question of how to respond to European legislation in advance. With a factual remark, Mr Klaus. Please, Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I feel like we shouldn't just cross this point without any discussion. With this measure, this law introduces a new institute, called. a European investigative order, which, following the European arrest warrant, is another important step towards strengthening the cooperation of the rule of European jurisdiction over the Czech Republic. I think it wants to say at least a few words, if we really want citizens of foreign states to prosecute people in the Czech Republic, and we don't care. I guess I won't be in the majority, yet I suggest we reject this law, because at least a big discussion wants to be given up on what other powers we want to give up. I understand that there are a lot of people here who like it when we get fines from Austria and Germany, there is cross-border cooperation of this type, but I think it is very serious things that concern the very nature of the state's functioning, the protection of its citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking if anyone else is interested. With a factual remark, Mr chovanec. But maybe he just pressed the button accidentally. Mr. Ambassador, you're logged in with a point of fact. Mr. Chovanec. [[Surprised.]] Wrong. So he's canceling his application. It's turning on itself today. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words of both the Minister - the Minister is interested in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just very, very briefly about the final speeches made by colleagues from the ODS. You're actually coming up with a cross after a funeral, but you have to say that the funeral was for you. The directive is dated 3 April 2014. So if we know how long the directives have been negotiated, your ministers have been there. And otherwise, you know that the House can discuss any position on any negotiated directive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-006-020.u13	Thank you. The rapporteur - is he interested in a performance? The rapporteur's interest in the final word? It's not like that. So the motion to return didn't come back or refuse, so we're gonna... [[Objection from the diaper.]] To dismiss? [[Yes.]] Not even to return? Just to shorten the deadline, right? [[No.]] In fact? Oh, I'm sorry. I was just... Okay. I have to pay more attention. So we will vote on a motion to dismiss. I'm going to call our colleagues from the lobby and please, I have an application for check-out, of course, and I'm going to ask everyone to sign up with their cards again. We will vote on a motion to dismiss. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 89, registered 162, for 31, versus 94. This proposal has not been adopted and we will continue. We will therefore continue with the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposed proposal should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 90, registered 162, in favour of 161, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose a commandment to any other committee. I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee rather than constitutional law. It's not like that. So we will now proceed to the vote on the Minister's proposal, which has proposed a reduction in the deadline for the 30-day discussion, i.e. to 30 days. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to shorten the deadline. Who's against it? Voting number 91, registered is 162, for 95, against 40. The motion was accepted. The deadline for this printing was shortened for second reading to 30 days. We've dealt with this point, and I'm ending it. Thank you. Opening point number
