ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to which I welcome you. I'll ask you to take your seats, sign up with your ID cards, or tell me who votes with the spare card. At this point, I have information that Mr Berkovec votes with the replacement card number 5, Mr Bartoš votes with the replacement card number 10, Mrs Kozlová votes with the replacement card number 2. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 65 Members. The invitation was sent to you and distributed through the parliamentary clubs on Friday 7 December of this year. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'm really gonna ask you to calm down. At the beginning, we will first proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Valenta and Mr Petr Vrána. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. Let me ask you, first we will vote on the verifiers of this meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number one, registered is 103, for 99 against no one. The motion was accepted. I couldn't log in. I voted in favour, so it's only for the log of my person. I note that we have designated Mr Jiří Valenta and Mr Petr Vrána as verifiers of the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now, let's read a little longer list of excuses. So until the beginning of the meeting, the Ladislav for not participating in the session were: Jan Bartošek - Dražilová Volný, Jan Bauer - Helena Válková, Martin Baxa without reason, Josef Bělica - working Jaroslav, Procházková Maříková - Radek Zlesák - Zbyněk grounds, Stanislav Blaha without reason, Plzák Blažek - Julius Okleštěk, Marian Bojko - Robert Mračková, Milan Brázdil - Věra grounds, Ilona Mihola - family Farský, Petr Vrána - Ondřej Veselý, Josef Hájek up to 11 hours of Zuzana time, Tomáš Hanzel - Vondrák grounds, Tereza Hyťhová - Jan grounds, Chvojka Schiller up to 11 hours of foreign travel, Martin Jiránek - medical Vyzula, Pavel Juříček - Eva Veronika, Vrecionová Hážek The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - foreign trip, Jan Kněžínek - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Marta Nováková - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček until 10.30 working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Dan Ťok - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Vojtěch Adam - working reasons. Mr Klaus's apology has yet to arrive from 10.20 to 13 hours for work reasons. I correct, was excused Jiří Kohoutek, Tomáš Kohoutek is present. The other way Tomáš is excused, ours is excused. Okay, great. And Mr Juříček is also present, although I have read an apology. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 25th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to extend the approved agenda. Mr. Radim Fiala has just signed up for me with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I do not want to change the agenda of the meeting. I do not want to change anything, of course, I do not want to do anything against the Rules of Procedure. However, allow me to say only three sentences that do not apply immediately to this agenda, but it is the last chance for us, for the SPD, to hear it in this House before 17 December. So it's not a proposal, it's just an announcement, so it's perfectly clear what we stand for. Following the New York Declaration of 2016, two global UN pacts were prepared - on migration and mobility, and the other one on refugees to be approved precisely 17. 12. 2018 in New York. This pact includes provisions that conflict with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, particularly as regards the redistribution of refugees and return policy. The SPD is of the opinion that the Czech Republic should not join the New York Pact, just as the United States and Hungary did. Unfortunately, Mr Petříček is not here, but we are still asking the government to take a minimally restraining position on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. And with priority rights, Mr. President Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u4	Hello, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would only like to speak briefly on the agenda for this extraordinary meeting. We have dealt with a fundamental problem in the previous discussion of this subject. We have even proposed a suspension of negotiations, especially because there is no financial analysis, and we have asked the Minister to present at all the reasons why there is to be negotiations on the revision of historical church restitution. Our vote on the suspension for this reason was not granted, we did not see any analysis that Mrs Schillerová claimed to have, and therefore we will not support the agenda for this meeting, regardless of the fact that, for example, ČEZ and the register of contracts, which we have not yet discussed, are also in order of points. [[9.10 hours]] I would add for myself that it is a bit strange when a government coalition has to convene an extraordinary meeting due to a point when, by default, with its votes, it can include it when it needs to, at the House meeting. So the Pirates Club will not support the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. With priority rights, Madam Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to say a few words before they come to the vote on the agenda and justify why the TOP 09 cannot vote in favour of approving the agenda for this extraordinary meeting. Firstly, of course, you all know our position on this bill. It may not be surprising that we do not consider it important to discuss it at an emergency meeting. I do not see the only reason that leads us to devote ourselves to this bill in some kind of time frame. But I'm sure we all know how it is, why are we even here today on this special date, when we should be sitting on committees today...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u7	I'll ask all my colleagues and colleagues who have something they need to discuss in order to do so in the lobby. Calm down, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u8	... which have been abolished, their actions must be moved to another term, and we are discussing far more important matters which really concern our citizens. But we're here today to make sure that next week, when the budget is voted on, the government coalition is coherent, because the Communists have made it clear that this is a test of whether the tolerance patent applies, if they actually have a share in power. Thus, the coalition partners YES and ČSSD will vote on how the coalition will prove to be consistent and it will prove that they actually have a share in power, even though many are resisting this, and even though they claim in various conversations that the Communists have only supported the emergence of government, but they are no longer involved in any way, no posts have been given to them for this, etc. Here is a concrete example of the fact that this coalition is coherent. Let's see if she's consistent. You're in your hands if you want to be supported by the Communist Party. As far as the matter is concerned, I'm sure there'll be enough time to do that, but I think it's important here to say before that, that everyone be aware of what's really going on here today, why we're meeting here about this thing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Mr. Benešík, Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL Club, is next with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the right of Members, of course, is to convene an extraordinary meeting. No one's taking this right away from anyone. Today we're going to discuss the old evergreen, which was approved by the previous House. We have every right. KDU-ČSL wasn't in the House at the time, although some still suggest that it was some sort of folklore invention. It just isn't. Unfortunately, we weren't here then, we couldn't support this law. Maybe if we were here, we'd co-create the law more perfect than it is. If anyone here is saying what they want, I'd like to say that there aren't highways, thousands of people standing there for hours, and that truckers are resting right on the freeway. And we're dealing with this problem here. I don't know what's more urgent. The minister is obviously not here, so I hope he's enjoying it on D1 as thousands of other drivers. And I think the House should discuss that next week. It's not just due to nature, it's not just due to snow. When I came here on Tuesday for D1, I was shocked that the narrowing was still there. I say, when the snow hits, how are they gonna do it? Well, obviously, I can see how they're gonna do it. Nothing. So the House deals with an old evergreen, which I think will drop the Constitutional Court anyway, and thousands of people are on the highway and they can't get to where they need to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Another with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura, then President Kováčik. Please, you have the floor. Quiet in the hall, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has supported the call for this meeting. However, our aim was not and is not to tax the returned property, which was clearly stolen. We ask for what is perfectly logical and normal, justification for the justification of the amount of specific financial compensation and their taxation as is the case for any other income in the Czech Republic. We ask for transparent separation and quantification and justification of the amount of compensation paid under the property compensation. In addition, there is also a need for a transparent model of change in the financing of churches that do not return their property, but rather give it away, which is not right. Of course, instead of large-scale donations, the ideal model would be common in Western Europe, i.e. the possibility that taxpayers who themselves want to be able to redirect some of the income taxes to either the church or other godly societies. There is no hatred of Czech churches and religious societies in our position. It's the other way around. We must prevent the division of a society which, for the most part, perceives untransparable and disfigured church restitution and compensation very negatively, which, of course, has seriously damaged the churches in recent years. We consider the Christian and Jewish religious community to be strong cornerstones on which our national values stand, whether we are believers or without faith. Christmas, or Hanukkah, celebrates and lives each one of us, each one of us tries to follow the tenth and the message of love for fellow humans in his weakness. In today's world, we see the enormous need for European traditional churches to defend and maintain European values from Islam and neo-Marxist globalism, both of which, after their collapse of European traditional values, destroy freedom, democracy and national traditions, i.e. values that are directly based on European anti-Jewish-Christian culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u13	I'll stop you for a moment. I'm really asking for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u14	But like many believers, including theologians and church officials, we cannot see that the financial compensation of CZK 59 billion to be paid to the churches for the next 30 years was set in 2012 in a non-transparable manner. They were not supported by the relevant list and standard audit. The whole botched law was sewn with a hot needle and under pressure at a speed. The law contains incredible laps, but for a lot of money. Let me illustrate this in one example. According to law, the Apostolic Church with less than five thousand members is also required to obtain a financial compensation of 1,056 billion. Crowns. The church was not registered until 1989, so it had nothing to do with restitution. I understand that the money paid to this church is a preparation for its isolation, but in that case this income is a gift and should be quite logically subject to taxation as any donation or gross income. The Apostolic Church has been against church restitution for many years. Pretty logically, she didn't have anything to do with restitution. Only the promises of billions from the public budget convinced her that the law really needed. And I also see that this gift to her and to other churches that had nothing to do with restitution was essentially out of the claims that Catholics gave up. In connection with the donations, let us remember that the law arose during the time of the economic crisis. That's when the state froze the salaries to the police, the soldiers, the teachers. Retirements were added after ten crowns, and suddenly someone came up with spending tens of billions, which was not completely transparent, or was even falsely justified by overvalued land estimates. The wave of resistance that has passed through the Czech public did not arise because we were an envious nation of ungodliness, but simply because it really was a poorly communicated bad proposal at the worst time. Nothing against less than five thousand members of the Apostolic Church. But a billion-dollar gift from a group that has roughly as many members nationwide as a few regional organizations of the SPD or a beekeeper union really calls for a public debate. [[9.20 hours]] Just for illustration. Volunteer firefighters who help to save lives and possessions all year round, who train and raise 60,000 children and young people under the age of 18, who have 358 324 organized members in 7 677 volunteer firefighters, received 10 million a year in times of crisis. Only 10 million a year. We will never compare the need of churches or, for example, firefighters, because the service of each one is irreplaceable and both are necessary and worthy. But what really needs to be evaluated is how much to whom and from which pocket. There will be threats from the Constitutional Court. Yes, of course. The court will really appreciate the unconstitutional taxation of stolen property. If, however, the State proves that there has been a serious error in the determination of compensation, then the situation is completely different and, without doubt, the State should not only have the right but also the obligation to correct errors. Some constitutional lawyers also admit that the amount of financial compensation could be miscounted. The audit and recounting of the compensation would be reported to be CZK 200 million. That's a lot on the one hand, but if we're going to pay more than 59 billion, that's a legitimate load. We perceive the reservations of part of the citizens given by the history of the Catholic Church. On the other hand, I believe, not only do we realize that the role of Christian and Jewish communities has changed radically. And today, to some extent, it is also the bastions of defense that help protect us all, our family and life values, our nation and its culture regardless of faith. Defending such values as the traditional family. And for example, the simple fact that Dad is a man and Mommy is a woman deserves, without a doubt, the support of the state. We also see the problem, which has mainly the Catholic Church, with the maintenance of owned monuments. However, this problem must be dealt with systemically by the Act on the Protection of Cultural Monuments and the State must assist effectively in the maintenance and repair of monuments. This is an advantageous investment in the culture of our country with a high return. And we should all know that church monuments in the vast majority are used by other citizens, including foreign tourists. We also see the need to help Catholic charity and others, not just church organizations that care for old people and helpless or dying. Once again, there is a need to change the existing system. Stop funding political non-profit organisations and effectively fund only those non-profit organisations that are publicly beneficial. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD proposes that the government prepare a control audit to determine the actual amount of compensation for the stolen property. In addition, the government, we and the public should discuss and propose a transparent model of change in the funding of churches. Of course, instead of large-scale donations, the ideal model would be common in the surrounding Europe, i.e. the possibility for taxpayers, if they want to, to redirect some of the income taxes to either the chosen church or other godly societies. It's a so-called tax signage. So I would conclude by just saying that the SPD again calls on the government of the Czech Republic to prepare a audit, which sets the amount of compensation for the property of churches and religious societies under Act No.428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u15	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'll read a quick apology. Mr Mikuláš Peksa apologizes from 9.30 to 12.30 for work reasons. Mr Jakub Michálek apologizes from 9.30 to 12.30 also for work reasons. He also apologizes for reasons of work until 10.20 hours, Mr David Kasal, and he apologizes to the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar from the entire day of the hearing because of urgent work obligations. Mr Chovanec votes with a replacement card number 12 and President Kováčik is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, I will tell you briefly. It's not the lead or the opening performance of the petitioner. It's just a reaction to what we hear in the media, what we hear here and here at the opening of today's meeting day. And I will not forgive myself for a few brief responses to the accusations that fall on our heads. First of all, the first accusation that this is only a test of the coherence of the government coalition on our part. I do not know how the coherence of the government coalition YES and ČSSD is maintained. We are a party that tolerates government. And one, the second reading of one bill that cannot happen here not because the government coalition is somehow inconsistent or even broken, I think that the coherence of the government coalition YES and the ČSSD can in some crucial way not harm, especially because the second reading of the law is not even a proposal of this government coalition. So it is towards those who have doubts that the reason of the KSČM, or the KSČM Club, for calling this extraordinary meeting, and again thank you to all those who understood and signed it to us, and it was you 65, it was not enough. And those who have signed it, as well as here, unlike some of the previous extraordinary meetings, we are actually sitting here, and we are ready to vote. Not so that, as we once did, recently that someone called an emergency meeting here and then didn't even come and there wasn't a quorum of Members and Members. That can't happen today. So the reason is that, although the bill on the taxation of church restitution, when I say it very heavily, is judged by you as a pasculi, as an idiot who doesn't stand a chance, as a thing that, even if it passes by chance, the Constitutional Court will fundamentally drop it, yet for unknown reasons repeatedly for a number of weeks and months, you're going through a mere second reading. I wonder if the second reading will be possible today or at any of the next meetings, or again extraordinary, how you will comment on this seemingly unimportant, marginal thing and also let the third reading take place. If you even allow the vote to take place on individual proposals. However, I am quite pleasantly surprised that, unlike the previous parliamentary periods, our bill, which we consider quite important, is at least being discussed. And I would be glad that the longer the Communist bill is here on the wallpaper, to discuss, as if on the agenda currently under way, the better for us, because the more we are in the public eye. But I'm not happy. Because, paradoxically, my colleague Benešík is right, although a little different. I'll answer with another demagogy. If, Mr Benešík, through the President, we knew that you would be defending this law in any way, including letting it snow so that Members and Members could not get to the D1 motorway at the meeting, we would choose a different term for calling this meeting when snow is not imminent. And speaking of the thousands of cars that cost a number of hours on the D1 motorway, I have also experienced this many times, and today I am determined for the first time to submit a bill or a law amendment that, unless the Minister of Transport does so, will make it lawful that, in a similar situation, the truck must not enter the left lane, because that is the only thing that then prevents the maintenance workers from quickly restoring traffic. That's a simple adjustment. Everyone has been afraid of it so far, but since you, Mr Benešík, through Mr President, have joined such a beautiful ass bridge with the topic under discussion, I am calling on the initiative of the KSČM Club: if the government does not come up with this initiative, we will come up with this initiative very soon, so that this winter, if you do not defend the discussion of this proposal again, this winter could still be a highway not only D1, but all others, even in snowy weather, the world wonders, sometimes snows, even better transitable and maintainable. I wish and wish to all of us, colleagues, in this pre-Christmas time, when not only are there other important things to discuss, but also when it is time to prepare Christmas, so that today we can manage at a reasonable time to discuss the second reading, which of the Rules of Procedure should primarily serve to make amendments, or to justify amendments to the bill tabled. Thank you for your attention and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. The next apology I will read is Mrs Balaštíková, apologizing from 9:30 to 12:00 for work reasons. With priority rights, Mr. Rakušan. Then, Vice-President Adamová Pekarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Hello, esteemed colleagues. Let me just say very briefly the opinion of the Mayors' Club and the Independents on the vote on the agenda for today's meeting. We will not support the agenda for today's meeting for a simple reason. This is not a matter of substance, it is really a question, even though Mr. previous speaker Kováčik rejects it through Mr. President, one big test of coherence on how the government holds or does not hold together in the Czech Republic. Everything is always a matter of perspective. And our point of view is different from the Prime Minister's. We simply see the KSČM as one of the parties to the government coalition as a very loyal partner. And, of course, that loyalty has to come back in some clearly declared way. And today is the day when the payment is due. I think it's pretty clear and clear. What awaits us here today, because the agenda for the meeting will certainly be approved, is simply a clash of two worlds. One who thinks that when something was stolen from someone, it simply should have been returned to him. It took a long time and it did. And in that case, once it has been returned to him, there should be no question about the fact itself, and there should be no taxation of something that has not only been stolen, but has been substantially destroyed and devastated during those decades. That is simply the fact that lies on the table, and surely this debate awaits us. I'd still like to say - no one's sharpening here, no one's making any long-term statements here. We merely note that it is not in accordance with our conscience to vote in favour of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. With priority rights, Vice-President Adamová Pekarová is applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to President Kováčik through the President and quote him not to think that these are just our words, the words of his fellow Member Mr Dolejš, who said yesterday at the press conference - quote iDnes.cz. "I must say that before the government was allowed to come into being, the promise was made and the promise was made, both YES and social democracy, that they had no problem with this law. It would be very illogical if the same group of Members blocked the agenda of the Assembly. Even those who are more critical of the proposal realized that by Christmas we could have at least a second reading ended, and if someone started to put themselves in a completely logical position, we would have to evaluate it." Furthermore, I quote the article not in the quote that it pointed out that on Saturday, shortly before the final adoption of the budget, the Central Committee of the KSČM will meet and, in addition to the approval of the candidates for the European Parliament, the current relationship of the KSČM with the government and how they fulfil the promises will be addressed. End of quote from iDnes.cz. You yourself publicly and in the media have said that this meeting of ours today is a test of the coherence of the government. You may not have used these exact words "cohesion test," but you have made it clear what you are doing. So please don't pretend that this is something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Another priority right is signed by Vice-President Fiala. Then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go down to saying that I did not want to perform and I was provoked, but it is true, this time. I will respond to President Kováčik's words. I don't think we can pretend that this is some kind of normal point negotiation. An extraordinary meeting has been convened here, not for the usual reasons for which we call an emergency meeting, which means we want to place a point, a new one, something that is currently happening, something that is not normally possible. Here we are dealing with an emergency meeting, or I hope that we will not deal with it, but there is a proposal that we deal with the second reading of the law that we normally discuss. That's not completely normal, and it's preposterous to a large extent. Another thing that is very problematic - I am simply reminding those who helped the communists to bring together the extraordinary meeting - is the very content. The correction of property injustices, or injustices caused by churches and religious societies, was caused by the Communists in our country. And now the Communists, when there's been some correction, have the courage, the, pardonfully, the audacity to interfere in that law again in some way, to correct the very complexly found finding justice in some way. Of course, I do not take their right to try. I think it may also be in line with the interests of their constituents, but I am surprised to all others, I really am surprised that they do not believe that they support them in this very moral procedure. The proposal put forward by the Communists is quite strange. If you look not at the government's position, but at the individual ministries' position, they also have doubts about it, they have doubts about the constitutionality of the process. When we realize what happened to the church restitution law, when you realize what the law is, you understand the absurdity of the proposal. But that's what my colleagues will be talking about later. Let me just remind you that the law doesn't just solve the past, it doesn't just solve the past of the relationship between state and church, it solves the future. He's actually bringing the separation of the state from the churches into our society. The process is long, the process is complicated, which is why there's been some kind of compensation in some amount, and now it's really incredibly irresponsible and weird to interfere again. The certainty that we have given as a state to the churches in the future that we will not pay them what we have so far paid, the certainty that someone here wants to undermine this kind of proposal that the Communists have come up with. So I don't think you'll be surprised when I mention all the absurdities, all the dangers contained in the Communist proposal that the Citizen's Democratic Party Club wouldn't even support the agenda of this meeting. However, in conclusion, let me mention the subject that is so marginal here, and that is the situation on D1. That is a matter which, unlike the debate on the senseless proposal of the Communists, I am really interested in, that is the debate I would like to have. And here I am prepared to discuss with President Kováčik how to prevent the situation from happening again. I, you know, I drive that D1 a couple of times a week, and the situation is normally awful. She's not awful about how drivers behave. And I'm not gonna agree with President Kováčik here, it's not just what truck drivers do and what insubordination is there. The problem lies elsewhere. The problem is how the Ministry of Transport approaches it, how repairs are made, how the repairs are coordinated and what is happening on the D1. That's the basic problem with the whole situation we're facing. And speaking of what's going on this week and why there's no way out of Prague to and from Brno, the situation is not surprising, we knew it would happen. We pointed it out, it was written in the media. The situation is because the repair did not end on the scheduled date, that there was a narrowing in the critical section of Humpole, which everyone knew was not supposed to be there, which was impossible in the winter, which everyone knew was due to end before winter, and the companies simply did not keep it. The only thing the Department of Transport was able to do, as usual said, well, we're gonna fine those companies in accordance with the contract. That's not enough, the situation was clear already. Minister Ťok informed us, when there was a public debate, that even though the narrowing will be there, they are ready, that if any snow - if it snows, it is no snowstorm, it just snows a little - if it snows, that they can clear it up, that they will keep it so as to make it passable. Look what's going on. It snowed for the first time, and you can't ride on D1 just yesterday and today, because the situation was the same on Tuesday and it'll be the same in a week. The narrowing that the Ministry of Transport just doesn't want to be there in the winter is impossible to ride. [[9.40 hours]] The situation surrounding transport infrastructure, about how it looks with repairs, what is happening on key moves, how nowhere can be reached, is truly disastrous in the Czech Republic, which prevents our country from moving forward, so that we are among the most advanced countries in the world. For five years there has been one minister, which is one of the few ministers, or perhaps the only one whose name people remember, but only negatively, only because nothing goes wrong with the Ministry of Transport. And that's the thing we should be talking about here. So, President Kováčik, through Mr President, if you come up with this subject, the ODS will be happy to discuss it with you. Not about church restitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. He can react.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] By your means, Mr President, to President Fial. I am glad, Mr President Fiala, that we will also find common topics. After all, we are elected here by our voters to look for topics that benefit everyone and also to address these issues. I agree with you that the condition that is given by unfinished repair could have made the situation worse, but we have both been driving D1 for so many years and together with us many others that we know and remember very clearly that although there was no narrowing, at the moment when it began to snow and slide, D1 was in a moment hopelessly blocked by just passing trucks. So one of those parts of the solution has to be this. That is why I said, if the Minister of Transport does not come up with a solution, we will come up with a solution. I just welcome your offer of cooperation on this solution. I believe that we will not be alone in working legislatively on the D1 clearance. But maybe the repairs could have been done long ago, and maybe even the parallel highways, which are constantly being talked about, could have been built up somewhere somewhere in a short section these days, if the funds that were devoted to the so-called church restitution could have been devoted to the reconstruction, maintenance and construction of motorways. After all, last time we talked about neglected bridges falling on our heads, and a number of other and other things that were not neglected before November 1989, but that were neglected by the fact that they and their sufficient maintenance had not been paid attention since November 1989. But I don't want to say that right now. Just a brief response to Mrs Pekarová's colleague Adamová. There was nothing in my colleague Dolejš's statement that justified or justified the claim so steep that you came up with the first time. The tolerance agreement between the KSČM and the ANO movement was known from the beginning, and the agreement included, among other things, certain programming priorities. And now, for the first time in this time, these programming priorities are to be evaluated. Nothing more and no less, Mr. Dolejš certainly didn't mean anything. I didn't think anything more and nothing less in that word of mine, in my reaction to your words, and there's nothing else hidden from me either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Let me get an apology on the record. He apologizes to Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová from 9.45 to 10.45 for work reasons. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have noted a particular logic here. Churches and church organizations are very important, of course I agree with that and I personally support them very much, and that is why we will support their very necessary activity, especially at this turbulent time, by taking away what has already been stolen from them once. Interesting logic, I take it. KDU-ČSL does not intend to discuss any possible property, alleged property. We believe that the property actually existed or existed and that the church organizations owned it, so the word supposedly seems very strange to me, too. And since we have already started here in this discussion on Czech transport roads, we will be able to support the KDU-ČSL point right next Tuesday, when we will propose that we deal with the unhappy state on our motorways, because I think it is time that the press releases from the Ministry of Transport are not in the sense: ladies and gentlemen, this year we have managed to repair 30 km of first-class roads and nothing else!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. At this point, I don't see anyone claiming priority rights anymore. We will therefore vote on the whole proposal for a 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I've called my colleagues from the lobby. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I'll ask for peace and quiet, and we'll vote on the agenda. There's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm gonna ask you to rejoin your ID cards. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed agenda. Who's against it? This is serial number 2, registered 126, for 82, against 38. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. We will therefore proceed to discuss a single point in this meeting, logically that is the point
