ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u1	113. Proposal by Members Jan Hamáček, Jan Birk, Kateřina Valachová and Petr Dolínek for the Act amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and some other laws /house print 109/ - third reading I beg Mrs Valachová, who is the plaintiff's representative, and also the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Marek Novák. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 109/5, which was delivered on 9 October 2018. We have a guarantee committee resolution at our disposal as House Press 109/6. I ask the appellant if she wishes to speak before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government, I would like to ask, on behalf of the petitioners, for the support of this bill at third reading. Its content, as you know, has been the recovery of sickness since the first day of the disease. It is therefore intended to repeal the legislation which introduced the fact that the first three days of illness workers do not receive any material benefits. This means these three days have no balanced income, virtually. your loss of income. As proponents of the social democratic club, we believe that this is an unfair punishment for the workers for the disease, and we also believe that because of non-payment of sickness in the first three days, the Constitution and constitutional order are not fully fulfilled, that is to say adequate material security at the time of the loss of income and at the time of the illness. There is no doubt that the quality of life, the quality of working conditions for workers and workers in the 21st century should be consistent with the standard that we have as an economy, we are experiencing economic growth, that is, when, other than now working this quality of working conditions and, of course, life and health to raise and secure. [[There's still noise in the room.]] So far, discussions have been held in the Chamber of Deputies in such a way that, in particular, the Social Committee as a guarantee committee has repeatedly recommended this amendment to the House plenary, i.e. the renewal of sickness from day one, for approval. I, too -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u3	Excuse me, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that we can listen to the reasoning with which the plaintiffs' representatives speak. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u4	I, too, naturally ask you for this support. As far as employers are concerned, the bill envisages compensation towards employers, at a level of reduction of 0.2 points in insurance, i.e. about 3.5 billion. Crowns. Moreover, as submitters, we believe that the reduction in insurance premiums has already created a reserve in 2008 which, at the moment, in view of the increasing pace of the economy and hence the income from the reduction, can therefore be used in favour of employers' costs. Finally, I am asking you to support this proposal, which means the renewal of sickness from the first day of the illness, the end of the punishment of workers for the disease and, of course, the investigation of our public funds to all of us, in particular, on public health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u5	I thank the Member as a representative of the plaintiffs. I note that Mr Benešík apologizes from today's meeting between 9 and 10.30. And also that Minister and Member Brabec votes with replacement card number 5. At this point, I am opening up a debate. President Kalousek is in favour of the debate. Mrs Richterová is also registered with priority rights. With priority rights, because he's going to lecture on the Pirates Club's position. President Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, probably many of you have noticed, the National Budget Board published a position where it says what many of us have been trying to say in public debate for many years. In the long term, Czech public budgets are unsustainable in this structure. It is a structural problem related, in particular, to the extension of human life and to the fundamental insurance systems, namely the health insurance system, pension insurance, as well as the sickness insurance, which is covered by the current draft law. Past governments, which were aware of this fact, published yesterday by the National Budget Board, began implementing the first reform actions into insurance systems. All three of them. Your government - and here I will say your government for the last parliamentary term, because social democracy and the ANO movement were the main pillars of the previous government - has abolished reform actions in all those insurance systems. Nothing against it, after all, we're not the bearer of the only truth. But I would expect that if something was canceled, an alternative would be proposed, which I argue is more effective, that it is better. But none of this is done by your government. They're jamming without an alternative. The opposition is often under attack by criticism. He says: You criticize government policy - and where is your alternative? We say the alternative in our programs, but here I dare to use the same argument: where is the alternative? Where do you have alternatives to pension insurance reform? You've cancelled the beginning of the reform laid down by the Nečasův Government, you've promised to submit pension reform, and nothing here. I also don't think we'll ever see anything during this parliamentary term. Where do you have an alternative to canceled reform actions in health insurance? Where? There is no substantive intention, there is no discussion. And today is kind of a festive day, because the last reform step in mandatory insurance systems, which you haven't canceled yet, although clearly proven to be effective, will be cancelled today. And what I'm asking is, where's your alternative? Nowhere! All you can do is interrupt, you can't create. You can't present anything to replace the reform action you're interrupting. We'll give away what we can, and after us the flood. That's your policy. You are an outright anti-reform government! [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Therefore, we cannot agree with the abolition of this last reform step in the compulsory insurance system. You know, every insurance policy has some involvement. We think, and we demonstrated it in times when we introduced it, that the first three days of illness are very reasonable, effective and in no way antisocial involvement -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u7	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Please calm down, this time especially in the left side of the meeting hall. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u8	They are also yelling in the right one, but it can be endured, Mr President. Thank you. Those first three days of illness effective, not antisocial participation in insurance, allowing precisely for those long-term patients to take dignified fulfillment. If you cancel, it will burden much more public budgets, it will burden much more entrepreneurs. After all, you know it yourself, because in the draft budget for next year you budget an unnaturally high increase in sickness, you budget it because you don't think we're gonna get sicker, but you know that simply canceling this step will increase the absorption of sickness, and it won't grow effectively. It is a bad decision, and I repeat again, especially because you do not offer an alternative to social insurance, to health insurance, to sickness insurance. You can interrupt, you can't think of anything. It's the politics of the Flood after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u9	Thank you. With a point of fact, Minister Maláčová will now speak, followed by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's factual comment. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am only in response to Mr Kalousek through Mr President. The sentence "you can only disturb" from the representative of the government, who canceled the payment of the first three days of sickness, really fits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u11	Thank you. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u12	Hello. Also, a quick response to President Kalousek. The question is, what is reform? Speaking of pensions, the introduction of a second pension pillar in the form of Mr Kalousek's finance minister back then was nothing but the liquidation of an ongoing pillar that simply cannot be stolen and the introduction of new banking products. And that was it. All the reforms of Nečasův and Topolánkův's government were nothing more than the introduction of new banking products. And we tried to fix it for the benefit of the people, the employees. That's what today's motion for annulment is about... or the introduction of repayments from day one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u13	Thank you. The factual remarks made by the Presidents of Stanjura, Kalousek and other Members will follow. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the Minister's speech, which, as usual, will only use a bit of argument. If only a period of quarantine were introduced, there would be no compensation, e.g. for the employees, so maybe you could be right. But why don't you talk about the fact that employees actually dropped to zero insurance premiums they were paying up to 1.6%? Nobody's gonna figure that out. So let's take the average wage, let's take how much each of us saved on average, how much he used to get sick, then we can make some balance. But the Social Democrats really don't know that. And I've said repeatedly that for every employer, it's the best thing that he has when he has good employees, and you're still making these employers out to be criminals who constantly abuse, use, don't want to pay them, etc. It's just not like that, so it really isn't, and weigh your words!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u15	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, will take a real note. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u16	Thank you. Minister Maláčová's point of fact has already been dealt with by President Stanjura, I would just repeat his words, so allow only the response to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's speech. To say a 3% reduction from 28 percent compulsory insurance to the first pillar, to say cancellation, that is not even a discussion argument anymore, that is simply a lie, my colleague through Mr President. However, please, yes, if you did not like this reform, I said that no one is the bearer of the only truth, that if you canceled and put forward an alternative that we could discuss, it is perfectly fine. But you're not objectively capable of that! President Babiš promised us in 2016 that he would put pension reform on the table in June; you have the priority of presenting pension reform in the programming declaration. All we've read so far is that you want to separate the pension account from the state budget. Please, we can discuss this, but you don't want to call it reform. That's ridiculous! And that's all you could do. And that's what I'm saying here: that you can interrupt, you can't think of anything, even though we all know what the National Budget Board said yesterday, that it's unsustainable in the long run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u17	Thank you. The following is Mrs Pekarová Adamová's factual point, followed by Mrs Valachová with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u18	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I also have to go to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková through the President that it is already a bit of a played song. You have learned one sentence in the ČSSD about the fact that our reform at the time was the destruction of the first pillar, which is absolutely not true, but you are no longer saying how you want to solve it, how you will solve the problem that we have here in the Czech Republic, and there are clear numbers for it. At present, we spend one third of our budget expenditure on pensions, almost one third round. In 2060 this figure comes close to 45 percent of the state budget's expenditure, and I don't count on it that, at a time when, of course, there will be a much larger share of the elderly, there will be more expenditure on health systems, social systems, social care, etc., so half of the state budget in a few decades will only be here for pensions. Where's your education, where's your defense, where's your investment in other necessary things to run the state? You don't care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u19	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, after her, President Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u20	I am glad that the debate on the dignified conditions of workers in sickness uses the opposition to call for pension reform. That really has a lot to do with itself. As for the dignity and dignity of workers in sickness, we are attacking a simple thing. Three days of unpaid sickness does not solve anything, except that people pass through disease, except that they take advantage of their vacations, except that enlightened employers introduce sick days, which means a hundred percent fulfillment at a time of, say, nausea or simply some indisposition. All these arguments point to the lack of justification at this point in time. And that's why the numbers speak, because - and through the President, Mr Kalousek certainly knows this - as far as sickness is concerned from 4 to 14 days and from 15 to 21 days, there are no simulators, that's almost all of us, all of us working, so this sick person has been rising steadily since 2014. As far as 2008 is concerned, I am 100% convinced that the regulatory effect did not have a card but, above all, a health charge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u21	Thank you. The reactions will follow by factual remarks in the following order: Members of Parliament and Member Kováčik, Staněk, Gajdůškovášková, Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. To us communists - in response to Mr Kalousek through you, Mr President - i.e. to us communists she so-called. The reform did not like it from the beginning and from the beginning we also proposed the abolition of the deadline. My colleague Soňa Marková and I have done so several times, and it has always been, as they say, only ready in the drawer, because here in the House it either did not get to be discussed at all, or it has been a great majority of you, colleagues and colleagues, rejected. I am convinced that there was not one decisive argument. The reform was indeed, I said so-called reform, she was not so-called, she was real, in favour of a wealthy minority, to the detriment of the poor majority of the nation. And I don't have to tell anybody that the person who does normal work or is retired or is a student is important to him when he gets sick and has the cost of medicine, has the cost of health care, has the cost of traveling to a doctor and has no income, so for him the first three days are quite crucial. He doesn't have enough funds to kidnap the richer minority with ease. That's why we're canceling, which is why we want to cancel, and that's why we've been proposing to cancel from the beginning. Even now, this is our amendment, and I ask that we consider canceling the deadline for most of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u23	Thank you. Mr Staněk's point of fact, after which Mrs Gajdůšková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u24	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would like to turn to my colleague Stanjura, who has very strong logical arguments and I respect him very much. But what he did a moment ago is unacceptable to me. I'm a businessman, I employ 70 people, and I don't feel so damaged by this change that my employees would completely change their attitude and change their behavior. So please, let's not make this simple, let's not make it black and white, the world around us is colorful. Yes, in some professions, in some jobs we can cause some problems, but it's not flat and it's not that simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u25	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková, after her President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I confess that I don't like this system of factual remarks very much, but it's just that the truth has been said here, or let's say things at a different point of view, and they can always be different. And I have to fix it. Firstly, as regards the pension scheme. We can look at the pension system in the future by looking at other numbers. We're putting some 8 plus minus percent of GDP on the pension system today. In 2050, there's a prediction that it's going to be 12 percent of GDP. Yes, it's an increase. But the same percentage of GDP is issued by Poland today. I am not aware that Poland is collapsing as a result of the pension system. The state can just take it. One thing. The second thing is about the second pillar and the destruction of the ongoing pension system. In Slovakia they introduced quite massively - but I think they only had 4 percent there, unlike those proposed by us 3 percent of the contributions to the second pension pillar. The result was that the people who went to the second pension pillar were retired because they were told that they hadn't paid each other long enough. And the ongoing pillar, the first one, was so weakened that the Slovak state had to pay it back, retransmit it to the ongoing pillar, because they weren't able to bear it. That's just so we know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u27	Thank you. President Kalousek with a point of fact, after whom President Chvojka. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u28	Thank you. Mrs Valachová told us that we are using, or perhaps even taking advantage, forgive me, a discussion of three days of quarantine time to discuss pension or health reform. And how it's connected. Well, it's kind of connected, though. This is one structural problem in our state budget, which is called mandatory insurance systems. The Czech Republic as a social state, because the first Klausův government has been building it as a social state, holds compulsory insurance systems in its legal order. Which is one of the characteristics of the welfare state. And that's sickness insurance, that's social insurance, that's pension insurance, and that's health insurance. And we all know that it is long-term unsustainable in the current structure. We even have this supported by yesterday's National Budget Council opinion, which is a professional authority over the political public. Although we all know it's unsustainable in the long run, you're doing nothing but interrupting one reform step at a time, which - today it's the last one - which I would accept if you had better. But you have nothing. It's just a road trip to the wall and politics after us the flood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u29	Thank you. Now, President Chvojka, after him, Mrs Richterová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to respond to a few things. Firstly, I do not want there to be a debate on pension insurance, although, as President Kalousek says, through the Vice-President, this is linked. Well, very close. After all, sickness is a social event other than old age. That means it's two different things, even though they may be closely related to each other because of the drafts. And I wanted to respond to what President Kalousek said through the Vice-President. This is not an ad hoc proposal from the ČSSD, something she was thinking about on Tuesday and Wednesday. We were here ten years ago - I wasn't here yet, but when the so-called Topolánkův's backpack and the reforms were approved back then, the ČSSD strongly protested against Karen's time being introduced. And actually, for ten years since then, we've been trying to get it canceled. That means there's no ad hoc proposal that we haven't thought about and we've sucked out our thumbs. It is simply our crucial program thing, and I dare say that it also has the stability of this government. You know, I've always been insulted by one thing. I come from a manual working family. After all, my mom and everyone else were working with their hands, and I was always insulted by the claim that these people would be sick on purpose to have a sick day. Well, these guys who worked or worked as workers, so when they paid 12 grand, it made a hell of a difference to them. For them, the 4,000 difference, if they were 12 or when they were eight, it was a hell of a difference. I'm sure they weren't sick on purpose. And then when they were out of money for three days, it was another difference that had very bad consequences for them. That means, to me, it's a disturbing idea, and what's been going on these ten years, when a single mother who has a child at home can't afford to be sick, because those three days would hurt her on the income, both her own and especially that child. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u31	The following will be factual remarks in this order. Mrs Richterová, Mr Munzar, Mrs Valachová, Mr Zaorálek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u32	Thank you for the floor. Since this House has ceased to use the proper debate and has plunged into two-minute factual remarks, I will stress at least one thing, which has not yet been mentioned, and it is the very essential fact. And we're not talking about zero participation. All we're talking about is that zero payback in the first three days of the disease is to be paid at 60 percent of the salary. That's still a very meaningful contribution. Anyone who's sick and has a low salary or salary will feel it very strongly anyway. So the sort of deterrent effect is still there. 60% of the salary from the first week of illness. You can all count on that, it's just not a hit-and-run if you count on every hundred crown. So there really is still the balancing element of participation. This thing didn't come up here, which is why I wanted to stress it in this point of fact. At the same time, I wanted to make a brief statement on the debate about what a raging social state we have. It is good to realize that we have a state that doesn't all act responsible, that the disease can come to anyone, and therefore the system must be set up in such a way that even in the case of a short or longer illness of someone who didn't count on it, there was some functioning social network. I'm glad our state is set like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u33	Thank you. Mr Munzar, with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have a comment on what Mrs GajdůGajdůšková said through Mr President, and that is the phrase 'the state can bear'. It, ladies and gentlemen, this overlooking the future risks and needs of the state is very dangerous and it is a gamble with the future not only of our generation, but also of those generations that will come after us. Because the state can handle it. What does that even mean? It means that you either have to cut four percent of GDP in the state's spending, which, of course, there is room for, but I don't see anything on the left-wing side of the will to cut, some state spending. Or you'll have to raise taxes because in the finals, the taxpayer pays everything. The state won't pay, the taxpayer will pay. Or, thirdly, there's going to be a spiral with the state's debt going on again. So the state can handle it - talking about the future of our state in this way is very, very risky. It's really a gamble with the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u35	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, after which Mr Zaorálek, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u36	I'm just three notes. One. It really isn't normal if I'm working, I go to work, then I get sick, so that because of the illness, I'm doomed to not be able to pay my usual expenses, or even fall into a debt trap. And this is reality. This is the reality of a huge number of people. Therefore also objective surveys by STEM or other independent institutions show that one third, one third of people actually go to work with the flu due to income outages and two thirds of Čech do not stay home for incapacity, 44 percent of Čech cannot afford to stand. This isn't normal. And if we are talking about macroeconomics, as my colleague Kalousek called for through the President, this has its implications, but in another insurance system. The insurance scheme for public health insurance. But it also affects the length of life. It all has an effect on that. We cannot, as politicians, want sick people deliberately not to be able to pay ordinary expenses in the event of illness because of fear of income loss, workers. And I'm telling you, this is what happens in the Czech Republic. This is happening at a time when we have maximum or record economic growth. And that's wrong. It's bad for all of us. No one's gonna win this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u37	We will continue with the factual remarks. In the meantime, I will inform you that Mr Jiří Běhounek and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomáš Hanzel apologizes from 14.30 to 16.30 for working reasons, and also that Mr Matušovská votes with a replacement card number 10. Facts will continue in order: Mr Zaorálek, Member Pekarová Adamová, Member Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I heard something that wasn't true, so let me respond. And it was Mr Kalousek's speech, who said here to the House that we had something black and white from yesterday, that the National Budget Board said that the system was not sustainable and that we were refusing to respond to it. So let me say here against what the honourable Member has said that this is not true, because the National Budget Board does not say anything like that to us. She's telling us that the system is not sustainable. Also, how could she tell us that when he was in surplus last year? That's actually in dispute with what you're saying here when you say, "Fool." And you're scaring people, which is kind of a popular political method now that people are haunted, so you're scaring them that it's just not gonna work. But I repeat, what does this have to do with last year's surplus? Isn't it the case that the system is functional? You just understand, we see today that the system is enough. The parameters are so set that it works at this point. It's working, and we don't have a problem providing adequate pensions today. What the National Budget Board is saying is only that the costs will increase. Of course. And we don't know exactly how, because we don't know how the economy is developing ahead of time. We even have a five-year evaluation of the situation under the law. It is precisely to respond to the performance of the economy, because the system, as it is, and the National Budget Board does not doubt that within our ongoing system, we are able to cope with the situation, and when costs rise, we can respond to it, because we also have to deal with income, which means changes in the tax area, the question of retirement and so on, and these parameters, without making your reforms, which ultimately have a single goal, in order to make workers' positions worse and improve the position of several financiers you are putting into this. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time is up.]] Okay. So I say, don't scare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u39	Mrs Pekarová Adamová, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u40	Thank you for the floor. Now I must respond to the speaker through the President. Of course, it's not that we could work for, like, the next ten years out of one surplus. You're also very bloody, frankly. In the last parliamentary term, we have approved additional benefits which are paid from sickness insurance. Let me give you an example, like a father's vacation. So, even though we from the opposition are putting forward proposals relating to this system, the Ministry itself tells us that it will no longer be possible to finance increased costs in the future precisely because new expenditures are increasing, long-term sick leave has increased in the last parliamentary term. That's what we approved here. That is why we have also voted, but it is precisely with the fact that there will be a period of quarantine. And when we learn here from Mrs Valachová how we act irresponsiblely towards these people, on the contrary, we want to lead them to responsibility for their own health. That may not sound that way to you at first sight, but it is. Health is the highest value we all have. I guess we can agree on that. We all want him for all kinds of opportunities. A toast to him and so on. But it is also important to treat him actively and to take care of him. So, for example, a flu vaccine like this, when you buy it, it costs less than 300. You get vaccinated, you have some effect and so on. How much are three packs of cigarettes? Three hundred, too. So you can choose what you buy. Buy a vaccine serum or destroy your health with regular smoking. And that's how everyone has to do it for themselves. I understand that, of course, someone doesn't like it, because responsibility is a thing that can't be completely enforced, but it can definitely be led to it. And I think in this case, we're gonna talk about... I'm applying to the debate, so I certainly don't want to take advantage of factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u41	Yes, time's up, Madame. [[Pekarová Adamová: Yes, the President said so.]] Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, with a factual point, followed by President Kalousek, also with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u42	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief factual point. I find it completely incredible that people who take $100,000, and when they get sick, they take exactly the same $100,000 and refuse to change it, and they tell people that when they get sick, they're supposed to take vacations. It seems completely absurd to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u43	Thank you. President Kalousek, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u44	Thank you. Only briefly to the Members of the Zaorálek. I guess we've read different lines. I quote only one sentence: Despite the expected growth of the economy and tax revenues, Czech public finances are long-term unsustainable in the existing system and parameters. - Yes, if you expect to raise taxes to 50 per cent, the state will actually bear it, as Mrs GajdůGajdůšková said, but that is probably not even the target of the left-wing parties, some, probably not everyone. So responsible budgeting is not just that we happen to succeed when the economy is exceptionally successful. Responsible budgeting is that it must work out for you, even if it does not work out. In the world, signals are growing to cool the economy. We won't grow forever at the rate we're growing now. And even when it cools down, there doesn't have to be a crisis, your budgets in today's budget policy are under so much pressure that it's the poorest and weakest you're taking the most for right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u45	Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, don't be mad at me, I also have to respond to this plentiful debate where we learn very interesting things. In any case, I should respond by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Pekarová Adamová, because, I am sorry, you are defending every person's health with one breath, and you are actually laughing at them in the second breath, because the first three days are really crucial in any disease. And I've already told the committee that you're probably not really concerned about having a short-term sick employee, but about growing long-term sick employees. And I have to say, I might ask, who did you bleed in the time of Drábkův's reform? Maybe that would be interesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u47	Thank you. There are no other factual points at this point. We are returning to those who are enrolled in the general debate. The first shall be Mrs Richterová, who shall speak with the opinion of the Pirate Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the storm of factual remarks, some calm water now summing up the position behind the pirát. Indeed, this is a rather important big subject from our point of view, because it will be felt by every employed person in this country. It is indeed a question of balancing, balancing the perspective of the longer-term and short-term. Of course, some here in this House accentuate the very short term. No matter what we think about it, I think every short-term view is always short-sighted. The 60 percent of the salary that one should, if we approve, receive from the first day of the disease during the first week is common in Europe as a certain deterrent. People will feel the same way. I wish we in the Chamber of Deputies could do the same. It is really very unusual that we do not perceive sickness because we still have the same salary. As far as the overall effect on the functioning of society is concerned, this debate, which is conducted not only on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies but also in the media, can also contribute to making both employers and employees more aware of what is involved in the disease, that it contributes very negatively to the long-term diseases, and, on the other hand, that the quality of work environment, good employment relations, how the company works in general, contributes greatly to the health of employees. It is such a close connection that it is, in turn, a very good balancing element in the whole system that the employers are very interested in whether their employees are healthy. And I believe that already in many companies and in many sectors of established benefits sick days, encouraging people to stay at home when they are not feeling well, that it will spread in some way, even where this is not easily possible, because there is a need for shift production, there is a need for physical presence. But there is just what some companies already use, positive motivation of employees. Positive, for example, financial support when a person is not sick for a month or the various health programs that employers are currently motivating people to take care of their health as much as possible. This trip in the Pirates seems like a long-term sustainable, long-term financial advantage. From this point of view, in Europe, we have an average of two years below the median life span, we can see that we still have a lot to catch up on. We have high-quality health care, but we're still on the brink when it comes to survival. So that we now engage in health care in connection with this debate will certainly not be a bad thing. Finally, the final comment for the Pirate Club on what is very important, namely electronization. We had a meeting with the Minister and Mrs Valachová at the parliamentary club. We asked very strongly about the circumstances of the introduction of the eIncapacity. As has also been said many times here, it should be possible to look into the system from 1 January 2019, passive participation in it and from 1 January 2020 the system should be fully operational. Yes, we would all like the system to be operational now. That's not the case, the delay took place with another minister. For this reason, we do not want to tie our votes only with the fact that this is now in force. However, we are firmly counting on this, and we will monitor Mr Lukáš Kolářík's MPSV's Chair of the IT Sub-Committee very closely so that the implementation now actually takes place consistently and very quickly. The electronization, which is in the hands of the Minister, is connected with other important things. That doesn't belong to this discussion anymore, I'm just going to mention that the lack of electronisation of the labour authorities is absolutely alarming. There will also need great synergies for the state to function effectively, the Czech Social Security Administration. For these two authorities, we will ask very carefully and monitor progress in electronization and digitalisation. To sum up, if we have a sickness insurance institute, if we have a state that wants people to actually benefit from recovery, we consider it right to rethink that workers will now make 60 per cent of the support from zero support in the first three days of the disease, 60 per cent of the salary in the first three days of the disease, or the whole first week. At the same time, we appeal to the accelerated introduction of eIncapacity and the possibility of rapid, brisk informing employers. Finally, the desire that in our companies, in state institutions, wherever more people cooperate is introduced such measures as to promote a good atmosphere in the workplace and people will not be sick. That's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u49	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will respond with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u50	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to one in my opinion not quite truthfully mentioned information, or it depends on the point of view. You, Madame, through the President, have said that this is common in other countries too, so there is no time of chance. I have here a list of all the European states and an overview of how long the time is if it exists. And it's about half-and-half. Thus, it is not that we are an exceptional country with a period of three days. But for example, there are three days in France, which can also be considered a social state, in Italy there are three days, in Portugal or near us Austria, Greece, Spain, Malta and so on. But even in the UK, it is seven days, six days in Ireland, and even two weeks in Iceland. So it is far from being an exceptional state in this regard in the standards of Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u51	Thank you. The following is Mrs Richterová's factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u52	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief response. Like the huge economy, neighbouring Germany, doesn't have a gambling period and pays the sick employees a hundred percent salary. That, too, is to be found in Europe. Let me just remind you that the 60 percent of the salary that, if approved today, is to be paid is some kind of demotivative element, the 60 percent of the salary remains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u53	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The President of the SPD Radim Fiala is now registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, allow me to speak very briefly with the SPD's position on this issue. As a first sentence, I must say that the SPD agrees with the Social Democrats' proposal not to be a period of quarantine, so that employees can be reimbursed for the first three days. However, we do not agree with this in the form in which it was presented. This government, to generalize it, actually put forward this proposal and says that someone should pay for it, that it should be paid by a group, that is, an employer. And we think that employers and companies currently have a lot of problems to survive at all, a lot of bureaucracy, a lot of tax burden, employees pay social, health contributions, of course, on their wages or on their salary, but employers also pay social, health. So we're in favour of the state paying for the first three days. We have tabled an amendment when we want the first three days to be paid and paid for by employees in sickness, but we want the state to pay for it. And this government has proposed this law. This government manages the state budget. And I believe that these funds are able to be found in the state budget, and not just to pay for it by some social class of our society, because then the government comes back with some other, completely different proposal and tells the elderly to pay for it. We want it, but whether the elderly pay it or just somebody else. So I think that's a bad attitude. Again, we in the SPD want the first three days to be covered, but for the government to find funding for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u55	Thank you. It will respond with a factual remark by Mrs Valachová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u56	In 2008, 2009 there was compensation towards employers, when the premium rate for employers decreased from 3,3 to 2,3 %. Only once, the following year, have analyses been carried out on what this means in terms of the impact on the employer's environment. Although that one percentage point was around CZK 11 billion in compensation towards employers, the amount found by the Ministry of Labour and Finance in just six months from the point of view of the impact on the employer's environment was only 2 billion. So if we multiply it, it was 4 billion a year. However, the compensation was 11 billion. At this point, in view of the wage volume that this government systematically increases, as before, it is compensation not of 11 billion, but of 14 billion. For this reason, we believe that the additional compensation proposed by us towards employers -0.2 percentage points, that is, 3.5 billion, is sufficient with this reserve from this previous compensatory measure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u57	Chairman Kováčik. With a factual point or a debate? With priority for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u58	Mr President, Madame and gentlemen, allow me to give the position of the KSČM Club very briefly to the Chamber of Deputies. As I said here in my previous post, KSČM from the beginning this so-called. reform, which was a reform against those who were not rich, did not support and actively tried to abolish it. Several proposals for repealing the so-called quarantine times in different forms, including in the form presented here by colleague Fiala, chairman of the SPD club, have already taken place by this House in some form. The KSČM club will therefore support the proposal, which is here in the third reading and which is supposed to correct what was here long ago in the so-called. The anti-crisis measure has been put forward by the right to remedy it so as to benefit most of the population. It will therefore vote in favour of the proposal for social democracy in the sense of similar proposals that we have put forward in this time. And we will also vote in favour of the proposal by Mr Fiala, respectively. The SPD movement, in the alternative, in spite of the fact that we know that the respective compensations are contained in the proposal, so that the State can possibly pay more, is more involved. It is based on the principle of solidarity. It is not based on the fact that we would, as I am sure he is going to turn back, or would turn back colleague Kalousek, we want to pull all taxpayers out of our pockets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u59	Thank you. We are now coming to those Members who have applied in writing to the general debate. Mr Bauer will be the first to speak, Mrs Pekarová Adamová after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u60	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, members of the government, I am an old school, so I confess that I am trying not to abuse factual remarks, and I must say that I will probably have to change the tactics, because once again, the next time I have something to say to this honourable Chamber of Deputies, I may have to change the tactics and maybe join those who are using the system that allows us to negotiate. First of all, I would like to say and deliver to you the opinion of the Economic Committee, because I was the rapporteur for the motion to abolish the time of quarantine. I would like to inform you that the Economic Committee, by an important majority of its members, has proposed the rejection of this parliamentary proposal. And I would also like to inform you that not only on the board of the Economic Committee, but also on the board of the Guarantee Social Committee, there have been very often comments that there is no relevant, serious study on whether the introduction of the Karenage period had any direct effect on the reduction of short-term illness, so I have informed them on these committees many times that these studies are available, and if anyone would like to see the one that is very serious and relevant, it is a study that was carried out by the National Economic Institute at the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. [[He's showing the study.]] So that's just the first two information. I also understood during the debate at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, during the negotiations on the two committees, that my efforts to call on Members of the Chamber of Deputies to consider very carefully whether they would join those votes that would eventually cancel the time of the Karenary, that it probably does not make sense for me to convince the already convinced, which, above all, are representatives of social democracy and the Communist Party. And I would rather point my call towards the Prime Minister, virtually. to the representatives of the ANO movement, who will have a decisive say in the final vote that awaits us here in a little while. You see, we, too, experienced a very possible comic or schizophrenic situation at the committees' meetings, when ANO representatives came to the committee to try to convince the convinced, which were representatives of the ODS club, that it is not good to disturb the time of the Karenary. Furthermore, these representatives tried to persuade their coalition partners in the government to change their minds. And I wonder how today's vote will prove whether it was meaningful or not. I believe that, above all, the members of the ANO movement will be very difficult to defend this decision before their voters, because before the elections you presented yourself as a political movement that is for the business environment, it is for the culture of the business environment, it is for not only the government, but also representatives of municipalities and higher local authorities to behave in a predictable way for the business environment, and therefore it is not good for Karen period to be interrupted. I also think that you will be very difficult to explain your decision to those who have at least an elementary economic education, because it is difficult for them to explain that you are disturbing the time of the financial year at the time of economic growth. At a time of economic growth, disturbing something that has been very difficult here in the past, it has been introduced on the basis of an agreement in tripartite, is indeed a clear economic nonsense. And I would also like to say that if you have decided that you want to help someone in this Republic through public funds, do not do so through the time of the cardinal period, because its abolition will undoubtedly have a negative effect on the state budget deficit within the framework of the measures involved. If you really want to help someone, help those who deserve it, then let's make a deal, and you have our full support, let's add in third or fourth degree, preferably in both levels of care, because this is a thing that will help people who actually deserve it and are currently in a very difficult situation. * [[10.10 hours]] Last but not least, by the mouth of the Prime Minister in the past, and I have documented this, as well as by many ANO representatives, it has been said that there will be no cancellation of the Karenary period before the full implementation of the eIncapacity. And you know, you can pre-schedule any point on Friday morning, I understand that there is a pre-schedule that concerns eIncompetent, but this point will only mean that the introduction of eIncompetents in a better case is postponed by one year, in which case it will be more years. And that is why, without a doubt, by canceling the card period, you will not keep your promises that this will not be introduced before the introduction of the eIncompetent. I am the other reasons that led me to try to convince you, as he said in the House at first reading and second reading, and therefore only briefly. I really believe that the rules that have worked here have been rewritten here for political reasons, which has been very difficult to discuss in the past. And it was a compromise that both employers' representatives and employees agreed to. You submit this proposal despite the clear disagreement of the Chamber of Commerce or the Association of Industry and Trade. Karen's period has been proven, and the study here is at my disposal, and it has served its purpose. [[He's showing the brochure.]] Karen's time clearly contributes to the greater responsibility of employees, especially in short-term illness. And last but not least, Karen's time clearly reduces the room for fictitious illness. I think you will return the Czech Republic by many years of double illness by abolishing the time of the Karenary. You will damage the business environment, damage the companies and employees that you talk about very often. There is no way you can help. By abolishing the time of the Karenary, as well as at the meeting of the Economic and Social Committee, you will inevitably transfer the demands of the employees to tens of thousands of additional jobs. In full conclusion, and I have said this many times, it is not always quite common that the interests of small businessmen, self-employed people, are being aligned with medium-sized companies, large companies or multinational companies. And it is really very interesting that, perhaps historically for the first time, all the representatives, regardless of whether they are businessmen, small, large or multinational companies, clearly agree and ask the government and this Chamber of Deputies not to come forward to abolish the time of the Karenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will also speak in the general debate. Mr. Rais will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u62	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are actually talking at this moment about a bill that has allowed this government to emerge as one of the few, because the condition for social democrats to form and join the government was an amendment that will address the abolition of the Karen age. This means, not that we are here to talk about reform steps, to put as a condition something that is related, for example, to the reform of our education system, precisely to the sustainability of our public finances, but we are talking about this proposal as something that is so crucial that this government is built on it. And I know from a number of ANO representatives who need employers who don't agree with this amendment at all, that they will vote for it in the end, despite the large gnashing of teeth, to avoid endangering the government. It's just important to start with what we're talking about here today. I will explain why we cannot vote for this amendment as a TOP 09 and what reservations we therefore have. Of course, some of them have already been heard here, so if you'll excuse me for repeating some things again, I think it's important that we reminisce them. Let's go back to the past, go back to the time when the Karenary period was introduced. It was first in 2008 and then in 2009. And let's go back to what the system looked like before, how much was actually replaced by people who were sick. In particular, between 2004 and 2007, the sickness rate was 25 per cent for the first three days of the disease. So what we're talking about here today is that we're not even going back to something that's already worked here, but we're introducing an even more generous approach because the government wants to push 60 percent in the first three days of the disease at the moment. So it's important to mention that. It rarely falls here too, virtually. It is rare for the petitioners to admit that at the time of the implementation of the Karenary's period it was for employees to be significantly compensated by a reduction in the contribution obligation, which was therefore completely abolished at that time, because the employees simply do not pay the premium in this particular insurance system. And it was at the time 1.1 %, which reduced their contributions. That's what I think is a very good compensation for the system, virtually. I think we should keep that in mind here, too. In the current proposal, however, we do not again give the obligation to pay insurance to employees. So we're very generous with them for the second time. And yes, it is certainly a political decision, it is in the defense of those who present it, they certainly have their reasons - nevertheless, what will it do? It will cause that, you have heard it here many times again, systems that are already at risk in the long run are not entirely sustainable, so we will make them even weaker, even more gamble in this direction for the future. And as we know from experts, from economists, it has also been mentioned many times, so in the long term, not only in the next year, in two years, these systems are at risk and are really prone to some future collapse. And that is not any haunting that we, as members of the opposition, would use here, those are the facts that are presented to us by renowned experts who warn against this. And then, of course, who will be most affected by the consequences of the systems that finance, for example, the disease and such matters of citizens, who will be the most affected? The weakest, of course. They will not be able to deal with it as well as those who are better off and who may have some savings that are able to survive the crisis more easily. This is simple logic, it is a common fact and we can see this in other countries, respectively. in history, many times. It sounds like we don't have a functional system of checking for the first three days of incompetence. The system, which is currently based on paper disability, does not, of course, allow the employer to check whether the employee is actually sick or is physically ill in the first few days. And until we have an e-Cancellation in place in our system until it's operational, it just won't be possible, and there's no control in this case. And the incompetents, as we know, are to disturb in another law, virtually. delay their efficiency, delay the functionality of the system. The government was unable to prepare it and was unable to put it to life. And I think that's the basic problem that we also have here. Karen's time has worked out, it may be right-wing for someone, but there is also one undisputed fact or undisputed advantage in motivating people to take more care of their own health. It motivates them to take more responsibility for their health. Because what else should we really try to guard ourselves and try to do something other than our health? If I mention it again, flu vaccination is worth three packs of cigarettes, so everyone can think about whether they prefer to get vaccinated or whether they prefer to destroy their health by smoking 60, 70, 80, 90 - 90 cigarettes, some can do it in three days, so it's not that big of an expense at the time for them. And I think we should stress this - that it's about our own approach, about our own prevention. [[10.20 hours]] They try to prevent it, virtually. help, even companies. Many companies have a number of preventive programs, they have a number of advantages, benefits for their employees, which relate to health. They realize their share of responsibility, try to motivate employees to live healthier, to have a healthier lifestyle. And also a large part of companies, they're tens of percent, they have a so-called. Sick days, i.e. health leave, which people can take advantage of and where they can only have a mild cold, cure some lighter disease within two or three days and then return to work without being lost in any way, and of course it is very good. So it's also a very popular benefit from employees as such. In the last parliamentary term, we have dealt with long-term illness, we have dealt with an increase in long-term incapacity, which has increased by several percent. And we then argued that yes, we consider it important that people who are more seriously ill, who have some larger health problem that cannot be solved within a few days, but their treatment lasts for several weeks, so that they do not get to the brink of poverty. But we wanted to, we made our agreement here just so that the time of the card was not interrupted, that it was preserved and that the motivation for the employees, that certain involvement of the employees, which is expressed by it, would still be valid. And that is when the cost of the entire sickness system was increased. At that time, you also pushed for the additional benefits that are paid from this system, and since then, the system has not been able to withstand these steps in the long run. And I am convinced that it is really much better to help people at a time when they have some serious illness, when they really can't cure it just by lying in bed, but when they need serious help both health care and follow-up care, instead of trying to deal with every cold here, let's say each cold. In that moment, when you have a cold, you just lie back and in a few days you're fit, whereas when you have cancer, I'm sure the treatment is more expensive and more demanding from all possible angles. That is what I think is the basic principle that we should bear in mind, and we have it in mind, and therefore we do not want Karen's time to be interrupted, which is why we consider it important for people to be motivated by their own responsibility and a healthier lifestyle, which, of course, is worth it in the long term - both to them and to the whole society. Nobody makes anyone sick come to work. Yet I know a number of people who could lie down, so they carry disease on and spread it, and not just in the workplace, that is far from it. Now I have a fresh experience recently from a language course where I go and where a very sick student also came in, let's say, and she was very surprised when I told her that it seems very irresponsible of her to the other ten people who she infects there, she was still wondering what they were going to say to her at all. It's just a person's attitude. There are people who, even if paid 100 percent, will just keep going to work and the sick and spreading the disease among others. Sadly, that is what some take, and some do not realize their share of responsibility. However, I think that the debate here, stormy, shows that it is a right-wing approach. I therefore appeal to Members who consider themselves right-wing, and often stress this in the government's YES party, so that in this case they can take the view of their own convictions and consciences so that they do not let themselves be manipulated into something that is against their hair, because I know that is how some feel. So have a little courage to take it this way and vote as you feel it is right, not as you must according to some of your commitments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u63	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will respond to a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u64	Only factual, Mr President. There was no agreement between employers and employees in 2008! This is repeatedly highlighted by the workers' unions. It was not in 2008 and it has to be added that it is not in 2018. As regards the cancellation of employees' insurance in 2008, this was no agreement. This was the order of the Constitutional Court on the ground that otherwise it would consider the time of the Karenary to be unconstitutional. It was an order from the Constitutional Court. No deal. As for the three days that are constantly being presented to us that they are being abused, I would like to point out that there is no difference between 2007 and 2017. Indeed, there is no difference in the number of those using incapacity within three days. This is further proof that even in this case, the card does not have a regulatory effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u65	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. It is Mr Rais's turn, and Mrs Válková will speak after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the honourable Chamber of Deputies to support my amendment and my fellow Member of the Válková on the matter in a way marginal, but also important, in terms of scheduling and recording the working time of academic workers. It's a problem that weighs heavily on universities and higher education institutions, because secondary and elementary schools have taken care of themselves in the previous law, so they have their working hours in the sense that I spoke here last time. I would hate to repeat this very much, but the point is that there will be a fixed working time in terms of teaching, which is defined, i.e. lectures, exercises, consultations, trials, etc., and the second part will be free, will depend on the specific conditions of the workplace and the particular person. It is an amendment that we have not invented ourselves with Mrs Válková, but is supported and, more or less, presented through us by the Council of Higher Education. So all I'm talking about is that it doesn't happen badly, because I've already had negative experiences from previous negotiations, when this kind of apolitical proposal has fallen through a bit of organizational confusion. So I believe you'll support us this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u67	Thank you. Mrs Válková will now speak in the debate, followed by Mr Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I may fit in those two minutes for a point of fact, but I prefer to be written on the board, because in this context I would like to follow up on Mr Rais, Professor Rais, by your means, Mr Vice-President, with an appeal, to pass us a law which, while amending the Higher Education Act - one might argue that this is an adhesive, so I say in advance that this argument will not stand in the light of what we are dealing with, because it is no less and no more than an adjustment of the working time of academic staff working in the field of higher education. It should be mentioned here once more for you who do not work in this area, clearly dividing it into three areas of activity. One is pedagogical, teaching. I think we all understand that. We just go to lectures. It's often seen, too. Even here we perform too long, as we are rightly blamed by a number of you. Secondly, it is an area where we actually have to - such a well-known publication or perish, publish or die, leave the academic area. We have to publish. And in order to publish, we have to do research or compile, but in a creative way, acceptable, i.e. foreign literature, home literature, and you often cannot do this in the ordinary day - today - we call this in the academic field of so-called working time. I wouldn't be a lecturer or a professor if I hadn't written between 8:00 p.m. until 2:00 p.m., somebody's got it backwards, gets up at 4:00 a.m., and he writes a lot by 8:00 p.m. So I guess there's no reason to modify that either. [[10.30 hours]] And the third area that I think is not negligible at all, and we also often test it in anonymous questionnaires, and according to that you are either more or less popular students, that is working with students. Maybe I really like her. You don't really have to do it at all, but you have to, if you want to push someone somewhere as an educator and see him as a successful judge, a prosecutor, an attorney, so you also have to focus on going to prison with him, specifically presenting some examples from practice, you have consulting hours, and very often it happens in the evenings. So forgive the epic introduction, I'll get back to our proposal. It's something similar, not entirely identical, we already have in the legislation, in Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on regional education, so she passed the amendment and there we already have to deal with how to deal with the costs that may arise, but may not if the worker, academic, pedagogical, university teacher, performs the work outside his usual workplace. So that's where we compare and unify the modification. Without going into further details, I ask you not only for support, as has been said here, for the Council of Higher Education, but I also connect the Conference of Rectors and the entire broad academic public. I think that university educators, who sit in high positions in parliament, can confirm that we need to comply with the laws and we would like to follow what is in the law, and, frankly, we still do not do so much in practice. So allow us to raise your hand for our amendment, which is also yours, thus allowing academic workers to actually work 24 hours a day and not have a bad conscience about working outside working hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u69	Good morning, honourable Members. We will continue, and this is in the debate, when Mr Václav Klaus is duly signed up, my colleague Hana Aulická will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, it is such a good habit that when a serious law brings it to an end, someone will approach the microphone and tell how it is actually in practice. So I'd like to say what Karen's time looks like from the point of view of being head of the school. I do not, of course, want to give Mr Bláha a card at all. On the contrary, I think that the more such talk that does not relate to the subject exactly, and the more people argue in the House, the better it is for the well-being of the citizens, because a lot of crazy laws are not being adopted. So I'm gonna take a little turn, too, and I'm gonna tell you what the Karen's time looks like from the headmaster's point of view. The sick person is introduced to provide income for those who are sick in the long term. It is not introduced because when someone has a cold or cough, so that they don't go to work. And in schools, it looks like when the flu season hits in November and it's Wednesday, you go there as principal, and you see those employees who come to you, they stay home the next day, etc., and they have a cough and they're not well. And you're begging them desperately that you don't have anybody there for this chemistry thing anymore, and that's how you fight it so that the school stays on track. A measure that, of course, encourages those people to stay at home and stay there for two days until that Saturday, of course, makes this very difficult. For years as director of the flu school, I have tried to keep the school running, and there is something that Members have put in place to complicate it in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u71	I thank Mr Václav Klaus. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická, Mr Juříček will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, allow us also for the club KSČM. Of course, our position is well-known, because we have long-term efforts to abolish the time of the Karenary, and in fact, our proposals in the past, which were three or four, I hardly remember. And I am really very sorry about the last discussion on the guarantee social committee, where my colleague Juříček will speak after me, and I am sure he will say his position, where I feel with some of my colleagues just for the ANO movement that they are more interested in doing so, that is, from the position of employers, and thus they are getting a little bit into conflict of interest. I would like to appeal to all of you that two thirds of employees in the Czech Republic really do not reach average wages in the Czech Republic. And I am stressing this precisely because three days of not replacing a sick person has an impact on their income. That is, if we're talking about income, when they have 15-16,000 net, and they lose about 3,000 at that point, it's really existential for them, and it often puts them in big life problems. And they're not employees themselves, but they're whole families. That is why I think that we legislators really should be interested in making the whole family or in general our employees feel that even with these low wages, of course, we are trying, and I think that even employers are trying to have higher wages, so that their lives are at least a little dignified, and we are not undermining their feet, and that is why I am asking you, because I think that canceling the Karen age is nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u73	I thank Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová and now I have two factual points - Kateřina Valachová and Lubomír Zaorálek. I don't see my colleague Valachová, so my colleague Zaorálek. Please. My colleague Juříček... [[Messenger. Valachová is coming to the pitch.]] I didn't see you! I'm sorry. In that case...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u74	I come unexpectedly from the right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u75	I didn't see that coming either!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u76	Mr President, just a point of fact. I must say that, in particular, from nurses, teachers and teachers, on the contrary, I am hearing arguments and requests in order to cancel the period of registration and non-payment of sick leave from 1st day. It is paradoxical that these very, I would say, very important and socially beneficial professions and the people in them are forced to pass through the disease, whether for organisational reasons, as it was said here at the speaker's counter, or because of the property outage. And it's really particularly scary for nurses who basically care for the sick here. It really is not normal and I ask all Members to think about whether this is something we want to continue to suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Lubomír Zaorálek's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u78	Thank you. I would also like to respond to Mr Václav Klaus, who has shown a certain aspect of the teacher here, the cantor who needs those teachers at work, and so convinces them, even when the flu starts, to give them a cold to endure. And I'd just object to another aspect, another optics. Because I'm from a medical family and I've been listening to a father who's always telling me that these are the kind of rhinorrhagitis and these rhinohlates and the beginning of the flu are actually very risky. He said from the rhinos it just drops to the bronchitis, from the bronchis it drops to the lungs, it becomes pneumonia and eventually inflammation of the heart muscle. And it's because they're moving on that they're having serious problems later, and they often end up having a heart condition. So this is what I've been hearing all my youth, and it seems to me that this is also a legitimate point of view so these people just don't go over it. Do we care about the health of the population or not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A point of fact, Mr Václav Klaus. According to the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Juříček will continue to wait. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u80	I thank Mr. Zaorálek for listening to my speech. But he's the more complicated world, Mr. Zaorálek, with the health, because when you're so afraid of cardiovascular diseases and everything, almost 40 Members are still smoking on that balcony towards Prague Castle, etc. So people don't always act in terms of health, but sometimes they also pursue the interests of working, educational, and that's what my speech was about. [[10.40 hours]] And if I have a word, I'll say one more thing. I did not want to criticize this with fire because I realize that part of the blame is also on the right-wing opposition because it did not establish a government with a winning movement, so it is the left-wing government, so logically there are left-wing laws, and a lot of ANO members will have to vote in favour of this senseless law. So that's what I understand. I want to appeal to you not to vote like that, because your partners are gonna make it. So that's practically what I'd recommend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u81	Thank you, my colleague Václav Klaus, for keeping time on the point of fact. And now Mr. Pavel Juříček is duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, you all know that I am not in a conformal situation because I am a member of the YES and I have respect for my coalition partners. However, the opinion that I am saying here, and I say it to the government, and I say it to all ministers and coalition partners, is basically the same from the start. However, I must correct some of the information that has fallen. Back in 2008-2009, I told you that I was there when we were negotiating with tripartite and the union, in fact, the change in the introduction of three days. And I have to fix it, because at that time the employees received a reduction of 8% of social security - Mrs Pekarová, through the President - to six and a half. So it was one and a half percent in the first three days. And actually, employers got one percent. That means twenty-six percent to twenty-five percent in four to fourteen days. In other words, if we count it to weight, it was five times more advantageous for employees at that point than it was for employers. Yes, Kateřina Valachová, through the President, is right. For employers it was about 11 billion, but for employees about 50 billion. That's when he saved his own taxes. So it's just to get the facts between 2008 and 2009. What is it now? The year is 2018, we will introduce it in 2019, because I assume that the coalition contract will be fulfilled, of course. And it is clear that the vox population has a significant word, because 73 percent of citizens want the cancellation of the quarantine period, that's true. Of course it's true. But if we are a little bit economic and not only thinking about what is still being discussed here, but we also think about the lost opportunities, so please, on the basis of the very last research by CEEC Research, based on about 200 of the largest businesses in the Czech Republic, I recognise that they are not middle and small entrepreneurs, it is assumed that the Czech Republic lost 19 percent of its contracts during the previous year due to the labour market crisis. And if there wasn't a labour market crisis, then the debate may also be much easier. But we're not dealing with the labour market crisis, even if we're talking about 313 thousand missing. employees, but that's just a number. There is not yet the structure that is missing, because if you have individual experts and they get sick, so at the same time they cost another maybe 20 people. And that is the problem that we have a huge problem in the structure of employees, and that is a long-term problem that is not the problem of this government, but that is the problem of all 25 years as we have distorted learning. As we deformed high schools, and that 62 percent of the population is rising in universities, even if it is deflation, and we all know that. But let's try to get back to the Karen age again. If this research is the last one likely to be published in the next 14 days, it says that the Czech Republic lost 117 billion in taxes. CZK due to the very impossibility of fulfilling the contracts, and I have already mentioned that the credibility of the Czech Republic against foreign countries is falling, so it falls with the consideration that the time of the Karenary will be restored, or that the time of the Karenary will be abolished and that there will be another 50 thousand missing. staff. So the result can really be an impact on the state budget in the end. We employers can work things out. We always did. And we've always looked at employee sickness, both in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, of course, we know that the risks of increasing morbidity in the short term are likely to be around 4%, because this is consistent with the change between 2008 and 2009. As far as the long-term illness that is still being discussed here is concerned, she has a different characteristic, because of course the responsible employers are watching it. They're out-of-work injuries, broken arms, broken legs. It's cardiovascular disease. It is, of course, carcinogenic growth and very often a risky pregnancy. I can provide the analyst from my own company that we're doing this. And it would be very helpful, because if we accept...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u83	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask the House for peace so that we can...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u84	If we accept the postulate that we ourselves are individually, majorly responsible for our health, then, of course, even for the long-term illness and for the short-term illness, it would be very advantageous to introduce a malus bonus that no one is talking about today. And that would make sense for us to take more care of our health, and that's the prevention that's missing so far, and that's the fear of entrepreneurs and ultimately the state budget that we might lose another 30, 40 billion. risks. Let each of you personally assume responsibility for the state budget being implemented at its original level as it is prepared. I don't think that's gonna happen, because I see it, and the opinions of those entrepreneurs, I see that those corporate taxes aren't gonna be at that level, because, of course, if we don't have those contracts that we can't actually do, we're not gonna do those taxes. And I think it's fair to say, and that it's not a business lobby, that it's a concern for us, for the employer. As I say, we've always survived everything, and we've always found a mechanism to defend ourselves and somehow fight the situation. We responsible employers in 2008-2009, when we made huge losses... For example, I have to admit that I was losing $300 million a year at the time, so I never fired key employees because I knew I'd tie up my future. And that's what I think is wrong, because we always look at short-term benefits and don't look at long-term needs. And that, unfortunately, is the psyche of us people, where we always see much more motivation in the short term than in the long term. So just to say what I think, what else could we do to minimize the losses or the costs we're going to incur? an incompetent isn't just a miracle. It will only help us with a short-term accelerated solution to how we're going to redo a work plan. Maybe we can have some fun in the future, if it turns out, one to eleven days. That was also discussed. But what's crucial is that we need to open up the labour market, because it's been going through a crisis for at least ten years, and now we have it in full nudity with the very loss of lost opportunities. And if we want to lose more, we won't do anything. If that's the case, let's normally open the door to another 50 thousand foreign workers who will help us solve both. Both the number of people missing and the structure. Because I can tell you that from those at this point in time, the 53 Ukrajinec, the tribal Ukrajinec - who cost me more, not that it's cheap work, because I have to dress them up, I have to translate all the technological procedures, all the control instructions, all the work manuals, and three months they have free accommodation, so I... and my wages are identical, as a Czech employee, so they are more expensive to us, but doesn't matter. [[10.50 hours]] OK, we're gonna do it, but we need that source so we don't lose any more jobs and to trust the Czech Republic. I think that's the strongest pillar we can make. 0.2 or 0.5 percent, that's based on whether we realize that we're gonna lose more jobs or not. It is a pity, of course, that the employer will actually pay for what is being promoted here in this House. I mean, I don't see it as a drama, but I see it as a situation when I have to do something, so I have to encourage different pillars not to do any damage that I can't quite estimate at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u85	I thank Mr Pavel Juříček. I will ask my colleague Gajdůškovášková to be patient because I have one factual comment by Lubomír Zaorálek and a priority right to speak with Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u86	Thank you. I really must respond to Mr Juříček. I'd ask him a lot if he followed me because he said we wanted to replace the long-term effects with short-term ones. But I was just here saying it's the other way around. Look, in 2008 the introduction of the Karenary period led to a reduction in short-term sickness. But experts say that after 2012, it started to compare, and it turned out that long-term illness had increased. That means when you people -- that's what I said here a minute ago -- when you leave them at home, because they just don't let themselves get sick for financial reasons, the result is that long-term sick leave begins to grow in the long term, because those people are bumping off the complications they cause themselves. That means it's the other way around. So if I am a good caretaker, as has been said here, a good caretaker, a good caretaker thinks it's good to get well and not to have complications from which he gets sick much longer. So I'm saying that this is completely the opposite of what was said here. This really is a good businessman's point of view. I don't care about short-term effects, and I'm trying to keep my population healthy for a long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u87	I thank Mr Zaorálek. I have two factual points. First Mrs Adamová Pekarová and then Mr Juříček. Madam Secretary, with priority rights, he'll wait. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u88	I'll be brief, Madam Secretary. I am only to the speaker, by your means, Mr President. You've done such a quick analysis here, Mr. Zaorálek, but you haven't taken some facts into account. For example, let us also look at the level of employment in the compared years. Today, we have a much higher employment than we did during the crisis years. This is also reflected in the number of patients who then draw on sick leave. And a whole bunch of other things. Like when you say a higher long-term illness. So if it really has something to do with people going through diseases or not, that would be for some really big analysis, big research, but I don't think you have that at your disposal so that you can go through with it right now, and that it's just some kind of impression, it's kind of an impression. We're also aging populations, we just have other phenomena that are related to it, higher illness may be related to it. But I don't want to say that right now because I don't have that kind of research at my disposal, and unlike you, I don't dare to turn this impression that I have into any facts that we can think of as standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u89	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment by Pavel Juříček. Madam Secretary will have his chance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u90	Thank you again. I do not want to delay, but Luboš, through Mr President, you have just changed words for content. You didn't listen to me. Here, we really need to look at how the structure of illness is and how it can be dealt with. And that's what I'm talking about. Yes, you need to look one eye under yourself and the other eye into the distance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u91	I thank Mr Juříček for his time and now with priority rights in the debate by Mrs Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't really want to perform anymore, I didn't want to prolong it, but now I'm not gonna forgive myself for not responding. There were three types of arguments. The introduction of the Karenary period should have been a motivation for people to take more care of their health. Does this mean that I am correctly deducing that the issue of sickness and health is really just a matter of sufficient motivation? Am I getting this right, Madame? Second argument - measures against simulation. I don't understand either. If the introduction of the Karenary period is to be a measure against simulation, why does the Karenary period also apply to accidents, hospitalizations or serious diseases such as cancer? You can't simulate that. I don't understand the argument. Another argument - the labour market crisis. Does this mean that we will be chasing people into production or in the service of sick people? That's the solution, the card time? I don't understand. I would like to sum up that, in fact, the time of death means that we are collectively punishing the workers. People are afraid to get sick for financial reasons, they're afraid to pay their mortgage or rent at the end of the month, and I think that's very unfair. At the same time, when we look at the numbers, we know that the short-term illness has returned to us in these years back to the time of 2008 means that the time of the cardinal period has not led at all to the things that you are calling here, even though the arguments are recycled. At the same time, however, long-term illness has increased by half, which means that we have actually overwhelmed the costs from the chapter of the MPSV, reducing employers' costs, but we have burdened the health system. I think that the abolition of the Karen age is the support of the workers and their health, and I would be very happy to see the amendment pass today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u93	Thank you. I have two factual points here. Mrs Pekarová and colleague Stanjura, with factual remarks. Madame, please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u94	Thank you for the floor. Again, I will repeat something that has already been said here, but for the Minister, I would rather do it again. You are currently proposing to pay 60 per cent for the first three days. Before 2009, respectively. 2008 before the first time the Karenary period was introduced, it was 25 per cent. At the time of the introduction of the Karenary Period in 2009, employees were reduced to zero sickness insurance, it was 1.1 %, and employers also decreased from 3.3 to 2.3. Mr. MP Juříček has put a price on this place. There's been savings on the employees' side, and now, at this point, the proposal you're proposing is no longer returning this obligation to the employees to participate in it. This means that you have taken only about a quarter from the system that once worked here, you have in some way picked up your other proposals that relate to it, but you haven't really given up - you don't have the courage to say to those employees: So, you're going to have it paid off, even better than it was ten years ago, but also take part in it. You just don't have that courage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u95	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. But she created another one. I'll read the order. Before I give the floor to Mr Stanjur, the President of the Chamber of Deputies has received an apology from Mr Farský and Mr Špičák from the hearing, so I am stating it. Mr Stanjura, Mr Mašek, Minister Maláčová and Mrs Valachová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u96	Thank you. I respect different political views on this issue, I really respect them, and that is what the political conflict is about. But when logic goes up, I go up too. The secretary said that because people were afraid to go to sick leave, long-term sick leave extended. Can we find logic in this statement? There's no logic. It's exactly the opposite. Thanks to the fact that people don't go to sick leave, our long-term sick leave has been extended, I'm gonna say it again. And look for elementary logic in this statement, which is absolutely pointless. If I don't go there, I'm not on sick leave at all. So how can I extend my long-term sick leave if I'm afraid to go to the sick leave? [[Voice from the O.R.]] Well, that's not bullshit. That's what your secretary says. That's bullshit. I agree with the former Minister of Zaorálk who's been yelling at me all over the O.R. [[11.00 hours]] And now that we're talking about the benefits that the employees received, it wasn't one 1.1 percent of the sickness insurance that nobody's talking about today, but also 0.5 percent of the contribution - I'm sorry, I'm going to read it exactly - 0.5 percent of the state employment policy paid by the employees. So 1.6% was a relief. So try some of you here telling me such fairy tales and impressions, calculate, that is, for an average employee, if it saves in ten years, when it works, how much it saves on the average wage of this paid insurance or tax, it doesn't matter what we call it, 1.6% of the gross wage each month, and let's put average sickness. And again, when short-term illness increases and we have a lot more employed, and she talked about it, for example. Mrs Adamová Pekarová, you are not comparing the correct figures that the arguments are not honest, they are not logical. But as I say, I respect a different political view. I understand that. But if I want to support it with statistics, it's got to have a head and a heel. [[President: Mr President, your time is up.]] Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u97	Thank you. Now, Mr Mašek, then Minister Maláčová, Mrs Valachová, Member of the Zaorálek and colleague Staněk. So now, Mr. Jiří Mašek, will prepare to make a point of fact, Madam Secretary. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many medical experts through the President, so I will also be able to respond as a doctor who writes out those sick workers. I'm not really one of those guys who clap the idea standing up to cancel the quarantine period, but I'm still gonna support that opinion and the law. And I will support him on one condition. I also dare to have a little economic opinion, although I am not an expert in economics. To cancel the time of the Karenary, respectively. There's one thing that bothers me in that context. A doctor can, and often he does, write an incompetence up to three days ago. It's legal. I will try to work in that direction so that this is changed in the event of an inability to work and that the beginning of the incapacity is linked to a doctor's examination. There I think it will have an economic impact, that it will be good for employers and that the patient will not be deprived of his rights to actually treat his illness from the start and receive the appropriate amount of social insurance. My conclusion is that I propose to my colleagues to support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u99	I thank Mr Jiří Mašek. Now also Minister Jana Maláčová, with a factual remark, will prepare her colleague Valachová with a factual remark. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u100	Thank you. In response to Mrs Pekarová Adamová through Mr President, I would like to say that I am glad to hear a different argument at last, because we are hearing from TOP 09 all the time, day and night, that social contributions need to be reduced, because labour costs in the Czech Republic are very high, and now I actually hear something opposite. So that's news to me. Second, in response to President Stanjura through Mr President. I didn't say it like that. You pulled out two sentences, connected them, but so be it. Short-term illness is e.g. flu. If you pass the flu, it'll somehow work out, but a long-term disease needs pneumonia, it can't pass. So this way for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u101	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and now Mrs Valachová with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u102	Just a factual remark on how much it was or did not make compensation in the first three days of the disease in 2008. The truth is that there have been turbulent changes precisely following the statements and findings of the Constitutional Court, so in part there was that 25%, as Mrs Pekarová mentioned, but in 2008 some part of the year there was a compensation of 60 per cent. That's just the way it was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u103	Well, thank you for the clarification, and for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek, my colleague Staněk will be prepared, then Mrs Pekarová and Mrs Stanjura will be prepared. We are therefore in factual notes, my colleague Gajdůškovášková will wait a while longer. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u104	May I, Mr Vice-President? I can. I would like to say here that Mr Stanjura is presenting a completely false, false alternative fact here, and I will prove it to the House. He said in front of everyone here that I was calling him all over the O.R. You've all seen clearly that I called not halfway through the O.R. [[Fun in the hall.]] That's the way it is with the facts that Mr Stanjura gives, that's how it is with all his data. Not the whole O.R., barely half. And then the sentence, it's pretty clear, the one that made me so offended, because the supposedly illogical sentence, that when someone gets sick a lot longer, that's what I've been explaining twice already, it seemed to me that I was overreacting, that when you guys just don't get sick because you don't want to, you're afraid you're gonna lose money, then it's gonna come back to you that you're sick longer. So that's why the numbers are growing after 2012. So what you're saying is that it doesn't make sense, and it's like you're throwing the opponent down like that, he's not thinking logically, so it's logic, and the logic is clear and it can be proven by numbers. So much and I urge the Member to consider the accuracy of his remarks next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u105	Thank you. Now, Mr Staněk, then Mrs - these are factual remarks, Mr President, so I have to follow the order of electronic applications - Mr Staněk, then Mrs Pekarová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would turn again to President Stanjuru by means of you. The numbers that were said here... I am therefore not a Member for more than one year, so I do not have the memory of previous periods, but if we are talking about changes in favour of employees and in favour of employers of around 10 billion. And 50 billion, so we're talking about the numbers that concern, I suppose, all the employees and all the employers. But the cardiac period, its shortening, cancellation or percentage of the increase in disease, which is between 4 and 5 percent, or the level oscillates between 3.5 and, say, 4.5 percent, is related to this fraction. So let's not argue that the state budget has lost 50 billion. or 60 billion. The moment we want to return these charges to all employees. What was said here by Mrs Pekarová's colleague. So it's not like that, we can't always juggle those numbers. And you are not the only one, through Mr President, who suffers when he suffers from logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u107	Thank you, Mr Pavel Staňek, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mrs Pekarová's point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u108	Thank you for the floor. First to the Minister's office. You have committed a clear reasoning foul because you have said that TOP 09 has in its program and promotes the reduction of the levy, and suddenly I propose that we increase it. It's not true. If it were up to us, the time of the card stays, so we wouldn't even be talking about the subject here, because we wouldn't be talking about sickness insurance. Yes, we have a reduction programme, but for the other systems, that means social expenditure in particular. That's one thing. Second, to Mr Zaorálek through the President. If you have an analysis, a research that proves what you're saying here, please present it to us. We can interrupt that point today until these facts are delivered to us, so I'm sure nothing will happen if we discuss the point on Friday. We'll be happy to study it, maybe we'll tell you the truth. Do you have something like that, or are they just impressions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u109	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u110	So first I want to apologize to Mr Zaorálek, he really yelled at me over half the hall, but I can assure him - I asked colleagues too - that he was heard throughout the state. I wouldn't like to drop this debate on wannabe humorous remarks. To the Member of Parliament, my foreman. I didn't do the numbers. I didn't say a word about 10 or 50 billion, it was your party colleague Juříček. And look at the record, I wasn't talking about the numbers at all, I was talking about the reduction in the rate of insurance paid by the employee, 1.1 to the sickness and 0.5 percent to the state employment policy. My fellow Member, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová, has already said this to Mr Zaorálek. Doctor amateur without analysis. Show me the numbers, show me the analysis, support your opinion with some facts. I haven't seen an analysis like that. Another analysis will then be presented to you by my colleague Mr Kupka, who actually has relevant numbers from relevant institutions, and let us discuss this, not the impressions that an expert on foreign policy knows how long the illness is in one or the other case. I wouldn't have the courage to say that. I will not argue with this, I do not have the data to argue with this impression of Mr Zaorálek. And it's a serious matter. In order to debate this rationally, we should speak in a matter of fact. Let's hear each other out. If we criticize performances, such as 10, 50 billion, let's criticize the person who said it, not the person who didn't talk about it at all. [[11.10 hours]] That all employees' insurance has been reduced by 1.6 percentage points is simply true. I welcome it. That was a good move, I appreciated it. Because we've reduced the tax burden on our employees. It's okay. What's wrong with that? Where's the logic? Has every month in those ten years reduced by 1.6% each employee's tax burden? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yes or no?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u111	Mr Vítězslav Válek now. [[right Vlastimil]] Mr Kupka will also be prepared for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u112	Thank you, Mr President, and I hope that I have hit a point of fact. So, through Mr President to Minister Maláčová. The flu is definitely not a short-term disease or a short-term inability. It's a fatal disease for many patients, it's being vaccinated against it. And I would even say that from a general global point of view, this is a much more serious disease than pneumonia. It's not a criticism, just professionally. And I think there's a stumbling block here. Maybe it would be worth saying to each other - and it's a shame that it didn't go through with the health committee, mea culpa, that I didn't suggest that the health committee discuss it - to tell each other what we call it and what the disease is, when the person is really sick for three days. What kind of disease is this, anyway? We should talk about them. Because what's falling here, injuries, cancer, flu, pneumonia, none of it belongs there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u113	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Kupka now, Mr Staněk will also be prepared for a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u114	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, several verbal gunfires have provoked me here to look at actual data. I troufnout say that the Institute of Health Information and Statistics is a sufficiently reliable source of such information on how it is actually with statistics on completed cases of incapacity for work. And this graph looks like this. It clearly proves that it is not true that by changing the very numbers of short-term incapacity for work, there has actually been an increase in the long-term. There's been a change in the statistical indicator. And that's very simple, because at the moment that a bunch of those short-term incompetences fell out of it, the sample from which that percentage of long-term incompetence is derived, it's just natural that there's more of those long-term incompetences. But it's a clear argument foul, if you can conclude that that's why more people have been affected by complications related to disease control. I have also tried to find something that would indicate the information or the conclusion that Mr Zaorálek has made through Mr President. If there's any analysis that says that since 2008, more people have been in society who have passed over their banal diseases and have been subject to complications. There is no such analysis, and I dare to argue, and it is clear from the course of the curve that even the overall statistics of cases of incapacity for work do not suggest this. Just no dramatic upside-down turned out to be there in the next few years. Please respect the basic data available here and do not produce amateur data - Thank you for your attention. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u115	Now, Mr Pavel Staněk's point of order. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long. I'll just explain what I meant by the screaming logic. I apologize to President Stanjur, who is currently absent. He didn't say it directly, it was said in general from the right side of our hall. If four percent or four and a half percent of people get sick, we'll punish all employees by giving them back the percentage. That was the screaming logic, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u117	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mrs Procházková, who is the last one entered into factual remarks. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have a point in fact against Dr. Válek, who said here an interesting argument that - something about a three-day illness. Looks like he didn't understand the fact that we're here to pay for the first three days. It's not a three-day illness, it's about paying for the first three days. This is not a three-day illness, but also the first three days of the following illness. It's not just that the patient comes to the money for three days. This is about you lying down right at the beginning of the disease, not delivering germs. I don't want to eat rolls spat on strep, not at all. I don't like it when a young man dies of myocarditis because he loses money for the first three days, the disease passes and eventually dies. I've seen it in an ambulance. I really think it's appropriate for you to lie down on the first day, not to carry those germs. And it's very important for entrepreneurs not to infect other workers. I mean, we all see that, and then what are they gonna do when the whole bakery's down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Věra Procházková. She raised one more factual point by Mrs Pekarová. And Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, duly signed up for the debate, is still waiting. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u120	I just want to say quite clearly here on the microphone that no one's stopping anyone from going on sick leave. It's kind of a twisted argument that sounds like we're making poor people sick or with accidents and stuff like that go to work. That's not true. And if there's anyone at the moment -- yes, I understand that someone can have very low incomes, and for him and the three days of blackout are just a problem, I understand that, but it's definitely not. The vast majority of people can just afford their incompetence, or, respectively, that certain blackout, they can also, of course, secure themselves and so on. But the moment we say that we're actually forcing these people to go to work, it's more about what's worth more to these people, whether it's their health or something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u121	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. However, it raised three further factual points. First Mrs Věra Adámková, then Mrs Černochová, and then Mrs Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It's true that the action is a reaction, and I thought I'd be very quiet today - I can't. It's for complete information. Let's use information that we really know exactly. And I can tell you that I know exactly how many people - and there are two poles of these economic indicators. For one thing, they're the ones who earn enough, but they're worried about their jobs, and they're the ones who make little and they're worried about the few crowns. So we're doing coronarography on vacation repeatedly. These people won't even lie down because they don't want to. So, of course, these numbers don't go anywhere. It's not statistically evaluated, but it's not true that these people can go to bed. They just can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u123	I thank Mrs Věra Adámková and now Mrs Černochová's factual comment. I remind you, we're at the third reading. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u124	Mr. Vice-President, I haven't performed today. [[President: No, that was nothing to do with you, my colleague.]] I had to react, or I want to respond to my previous speakers, because we can't just sit here thinking that if we pass this proposal, we're gonna change people's behavior. That they wouldn't spat on rolls, that they'd go to the doctor, that they wouldn't be afraid of what the other colleague was talking about, that the employer would look at them through their fingers, because they'd be home with the flu or any other disease. I don't know, I think it's been said here before in the debate. I would probably just repeat that if an employer wants to prevent such things from being walked around his offices and spreading germs, he can do what we might have done in the city district of Prague 2. We have so-called sick days. It's four days a year when an employee can take this leave. It is not subject to any scrutiny from the review board that someone would then go to someone's house, ringing the bell for those people whether they are at home and really lying in bed, or whether they are dealing with other matters that they simply need to deal with - the dentist, another doctor. So I think this is the way to motivate employers to have this option in their companies, in their businesses, this bonus for their employees, and not really solve it with a proposal that you're defending so much here. Because we can't change people's behavior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u125	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Aulická. And a colleague named Dolínek came forward. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, through the President, to respond in particular to my colleague Adamová Pekarová and, of course, a little bit to my colleague Černochová. I was calming down a little in your speeches, because I was thinking that if I said it the way I really thought I would, I would definitely make some more factual remarks, but maybe I'd get somewhere else. Anyway, don't be mad at me, but what you've done here, you literally spit it in those employees' faces. Because saying no one's stopping them from taking the sick leave, that's true. But the three days that we've been talking about are crucial to them in their low income are the reason they don't go to sick leave or why they're taking vacations that they're supposed to be taking on something else. And you're laughing at them for taking those three days off. But no one's gonna pay them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u127	I thank my colleague Aulická for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Dolínek, with a factual point and then a factual point by Mrs Pekarová. The chairman of the Social Democracy Club, who will be given time after factual remarks, shall be given priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u128	Good morning. The transport company of the capital city of Prague is the largest city company in the whole Czech Republic. Can you imagine your sick days recipe being taken by all bus drivers? That's nonsense. Oh, my God, that's pure nonsense. Let these people stand as sick as they are, not according to your social experiments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u129	I thank my colleague Dolínek. Now, Mrs Pekarová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u130	I'm going to pick up the previous speaker now. Maybe I can't think of it exactly right, so help me out here, colleagues who have been here in the last term. Wasn't it by any chance a social democracy that, alternatively, suggested that employers should be obliged to give sick days unless the cancellation of the Karenary period has just passed? I think that's what happened, don't you? I may be wrong now, but I am looking at the former President of Mr Sklenák's Social Democrat Club during the last parliamentary term as well as a member of the Social Committee. Something's wrong with me, that's what happened. Okay, that's not what I wanted to react at the moment. I just want to say that as far as how people change-- it doesn't change people's behavior and all that. I'm giving you an example of a multinational company that's doing so well and so generous to its employees that it pays 30 days in 100 percent above. This means that no first three days unpaid, no 60 percent from the next day. Just 100 percent, once a person... has gotten them since day one. What do you think? You don't think sick people go there? You think everyone's gonna stay home because it's not gonna do anything to their income? No. Those who have a cold also go there, spreading the disease. That's just the way it is. So it's just a specific example if you-- I'm not gonna say mic here, but there's a close friend of mine who works there, so I know that very well. I'll tell you how it works here. And that's where they have sick days and they have so many that in Prague 2 they would dream about the employees because they actually have 12. And what do you think they use them most? When they're going to a party on Thursday night. I'm afraid so. But that's an example from practice, since we're already talking about this practice, how it works sometimes. And no one's saying that we want to degenerate people who are really sick, who are in a really difficult situation. We don't do that at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u131	Madame, your time has ended for a point of fact. There. Ms Jana Černochová, with a factual remark. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u132	So the logic has already been mentioned here by our chairman of the Stanjura Club. I cannot do this; I must respond by your means, Mr Vice-President, to Mr Dolínek. I am not surprised that the result of social democracy in Prague is such that social democracy did not even reach the representativeship of the capital city of Prague. Because if the deputy mayor thought that brilliantly, it doesn't surprise me. Mr Dolínek, through the Vice-President, maybe you can find out what sick days means. That doesn't mean all employees get four days off at once. In Prague 2 they also don't take the four days of the year, they don't all take them. And it's about the managers, of course. It's always about the fact that he has to report it to his supervisor. And of course it's up to him, if he says yes, I take note, or there's a need to provide transportation, service, anything. We've got bulkheads. So really think about what you're saying on the microphone before you go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u133	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact by Mr Vácha. The President of the Social Democracy Club is with priority right before Mrs Gajdůšková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u134	Thank you for the floor. I'd get back to basics. It's just a right-wing and left-wing view of the world and the reimbursement of health insurance or those three days. I would like to draw your attention to one thing that my colleague Pekarová has already spoken about and which has clearly fallen into place. In 2009, sickness insurance was cancelled. The employee does not have to pay sickness insurance from 2009. That means the money stays in his pocket. Nobody's stopping him from putting the money he saved in the straw at home, and then when he's sick once a year or twice a year to cover the cost of the three days he's not home. That's the right-wing and left-wing view of the world. The right-wing view is: I am responsible for the way I treat myself, towards society. The left-wing view is: I'm counting on the state to pay for everything for me, make arrangements, and I'll be able to hang out, not go to work, or when I'm sick, so I'll be home, because he'll pay for me. That's what we're talking about here. And we're also talking about the fact that at the moment you're not suggesting that the employee pay sickness insurance again. He's still not gonna pay. If you suggested that sickness insurance return to 1.1 percent, then maybe we could talk about supporting it in some way. But you don't put that in there. That's the core of the problem we're talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u135	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, with priority rights, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club Jan Chvojka. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u136	Okay, priority rights, de facto, I'm getting confused. I just wanted to get out. I wanted to respond through you, Mr Vice-President, to my colleague Pekarová. I've forgotten, however, since the TOP 09 is not in government, how this party is antisocial. But it reminded me that my colleague's statement, which I otherwise like and have good relationships with, about the fact that the sick or those who don't feel well, actually have the choice. And if they're sick and they want to go to bed or they need to go to bed, that's different, so of course they can. Well, of course they can't, because my moms are writing to me, and I was talking about it in my first performance, for which the thousand crowns or two thousand crowns, which they lose in those three days of illness or the whole disease, are just a lot. If they have 13 grand or nine income, it's crucial to them. And my colleague reminded me of Ludvík XVI's wife's statement. When the poor complained that they didn't have bread, and she said, "Why don't you eat pies?" That reminds me of what my colleague said. And indeed, the TOP 09 is still as antisocial as it used to be many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u137	Thank you, Prime Minister. kolegyně Gajdůškovášková will wait a little longer, because Mrs Pekarová has again applied for a factual comment. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u138	I certainly don't want to extend the debate, and I certainly don't want it to look like we're building something. That's what I'm saying here on the microphone, so even the translators don't think it's true. But I can't not react of course. We've been attacked here that we're antisocial. You know, when you have it in your name, as a party, it doesn't mean you're being socially responsible. And we've already heard it here in a lot of posts. In many of the contributions, it was said that if we do not address public budgets in the long term, if we do not address their sustainability, you are the most social in this, as you can be, because the weakest will always be the worst when the systems collapse and when the state cannot finance everything. That's just one. [[11.30 hours]] And second of all, people couldn't possibly stand up. Yes, now Professor Vácha has said it exactly. We reduced insurance for employees ten years ago, which means they have more money left in their wallets. It's up to them if they buy the vaccine for it, like the flu, and they prevent the flu, or if they drink it, or if they put it on some other stuff they need. It's up to all of us. Everyone. And if he's just going to put off, even after a hundred crowns a month, and then when the disease comes, he's going to have some money under his pillow, and he's going to be able to wait it out, he's on everyone. And this is really about the right-wing and left-wing approach where we don't want to deal with everything for these people, we don't want to hold them by the hand, but we believe in them and that they are able to put these things together themselves and that they are able to act responsibly towards their own health. To what other than our own health should we be responsible? So they'll be able to put it together like this and really act like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u139	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have three more factual points. I'm sure my colleague Gajdůškovášková is patient. colleague Vácha, colleague Dolínek and colleague Sklenák. That's the order of actual notes I have. You're trying to convince me to change my mind about third reading. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u140	Thank you for the floor. I'll be really short. I'd like to tell my colleague Chvojka that he didn't listen to me. He's not listening again, so I'll tell the rest of you. [[Ambassador Chvojka is already listening.]] You didn't listen to me. An example of your mistress who can't go to work. She has the money, she's been going to work all the time, she gets because she doesn't pay the sickness insurance she paid until 2009. That means she's in that pocket. She's just gonna spend it instead of putting it aside. And we should have a system that the state will take them back from her and then give them to her if she's sick. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u141	Thank you. Now, Mr Dolínek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u142	I have two simple notes. Firstly, I am pleased that the previous speaker, through the President, has introduced us to the fact that Mommy is rich in sickness. Thank you. I'll be all over the place. She's a rich mommy, a sick mommy, and mommy sends kids to school in nature because she's rich by being sick. Thank you for your argument. I'll be all over the place. And the other thing. To Mrs Pekarová, again through Mr President. You know, social democracy's been here 140 years. He's here because the kids used to work here. Back in the day, women worked here for 12 hours a day. And there's a bunch of these henchmen, a little smart people, at the chestnut on Břevnov, that's just a short walk from here, go there sometime, some of you might have rented an apartment there, and you're like, "Hey, why don't our kids go to school instead of work, what if these women would rather be at home with us than going to work? And the gang said to themselves, "We're gonna try." Then they shut them all down. When they came out of that pub that day, they shut them all down. But they didn't give up. Somebody's dad was the president of communists after that, I don't have to love that, but it's part of the history of social democracy. But the gang just didn't give up. And today, I ask Mrs Pekarová, through Mr President, not to be demagogic and tell us that we are saying weird things here! People just have a right to be sick. They have the right - women, men being home with children when they're sick, and everyone has the right to behave according to what they need, and not the way somebody's gonna tell us he sees it! Please leave Prague's views of the Republic aside. The Republic just needs people to have the right to be sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u143	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Sklenák, also a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u144	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Adamová said she didn't want to go through with it, but she's already talked about flu vaccination for the third time today. I will not respond to her remarks on the state of public finances and others. I want to challenge you all - I'm the person who always cares about the outcome. What do we want today? I want this bill approved. We still have less than 90 minutes to read the third. I call on all those who, as I do, want the law to be passed today, please do not respond to the colleague or to the others, so that we can get to the vote. I think that almost everything has been said on this subject and we are repeating ourselves. That's my request to you. We're at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u145	I thank my colleague Sklenák for keeping time. I understand that the third reading before was... Now, my colleague Vácha is registered for a point of fact. Before it comes to light, I will remind you that a third reading was once judged by the way it was discussed in the committees, but it clearly does not work. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u146	Thank you. I agree with my colleague Sklenák. I promised my colleague Valachová I wouldn't perform, but I just have to get off. My colleague Dolínek said we were saying weird things here. But you say weird things. I didn't say the lady was rich. I didn't say that. I don't know what's wrong with communication that you can't hear what I'm saying. I just said the thing that she hasn't paid health insurance since 2009. And the reason he didn't pay them was because he could cover three sick days with the money. That was all I said. I didn't say, at least I hope I didn't go so crazy here that I don't remember, but I didn't really say she was rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u147	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Vlastimil Válek also made a factual point. Mrs Pekarová is another with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u148	I'm sorry, Roman, I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u149	Okay, thank you. Now, Mrs Pekarová, with a point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u150	I totally understand. I hate to get off, but if you're accusing us of something we haven't said, you're completely lying, pardon me, there's no other way to say it through the President, we have to respond. So first, Mr. Sklenák, make sure you're clear inside -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u151	Still through the President, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u152	Yes, still through the President, of course. So make peace in that either you listen to us and argue really facts and arguments, and not by twisting our words. [[Member Josef Hájek from the bench: Let yourself be vaccinated.]] That's really not in the interest of discussing the press. And don't be surprised if we don't take your practices like this. And that's the last of my applications. And let everyone vaccinate, as a colleague here says, so we don't have to say it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u153	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, now duly applied for. Mr Martin Kupka will be ready. We are still in the debate at third reading. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a longer speech prepared, in which I would quite like to talk about the labour market crisis and internal statements and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u155	I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u156	But we Social Democrats are after people. We're blamed that we're on the staff's side, that we're avoiding employees. Yes, we're avoiding employees. That is why, even at this point, I am going to end my speech, because our goal is to make a proposal for payment of sickness from the first day, which will really help employees, regardless of the analysis and statistics, pass through, it is about employees. So I've been hiding this performance. I beg you to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u157	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. Now, Mr Martin Kupka, Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u158	This is a serious debate, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a serious concern about what the abolition of the Karenage period can bring. I've gone to other statistical data, and not just statistical data. I would like to quote from a recently published study by Filip Pertold, a CERGE Institute worker at the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. It writes: As a result of the health reform introduced at the beginning of 2018, the cancellation of the financial compensation for the first three days of the disease, almost immediately the number of days spent by the average employee in one quarter on sick leave fell by 2.2 days. This decline represents 15 per cent of the average period for sickness before reform. I estimate, on the basis of a comparison of the situation in Slovakia and the Czech Republic, that the reform meant a 25% decrease in the time spent on sickness. [[11.40 hours]] It is important to note that, before the 2008 health reform, for example, in 2003, the average incapacity rate was as high as 7 per cent, which is higher than the European average. After the 2008 reform, it fell even below 4 percent and is currently slightly above 4 percent, an indicator comparable to other countries in the European Union. I'm not a fan of statistical data being used on everything. But on the other hand, if we compare ourselves to abroad, we have credible, comparable data, so it is possible to conclude from them whether there is a serious problem in the Czech Republic or there is no serious problem. And a clear comparison shows that the health reform really brought about a significant change and improvement of indicators compared to really above average indicators, adversely above average indicators in the Czech Republic, which clearly indicated the abuse of sickness. And if we are saying at this point, and it is conclusive that the figure in the Czech Republic is comparable to other countries in the European Union, it is clear that it works and that nothing should lead us to change the functioning system in this regard. Meanwhile, employers have found a way, this has been mentioned several times, to offer their employees a relief, an employee advantage. There are many companies, even state institutions, municipal authorities, regional authorities, which are offering their employees a sick day at the moment. And I dare say that it really means even more advantage for those employees in the end than you are offering in the form of this law, because by the way, the sick day is fully covered, and it also means that people are free to decide when they really need help without having to seek out a doctor right away or without having to look for any unnecessary bureaucracy. On the contrary, in this respect, we will cause a change that is about to happen, or that you are going to do, that at this moment the rather popular and established system of sick day and similar advantages will, of course, necessarily change, because employers can hardly bear it. And it is quite possible that you will come across the fact that, unfortunately, you will eventually reap only negative responses from the original plan, apart from a significant negative impact on the economy of the Czech Republic. I don't want to prolong my performance unnecessarily. I just wanted to say once more strongly that if statistical data showed that it was possible to change and improve the problem that was proven to exist in the Czech Republic - the figures in 2003, 2002 clearly show this, the huge difference between the average rate of incapacity for work in other countries and in the Czech Republic was simply not itself, it was really caused by a relatively high rate of so-called. fictitious illness - so let us remain faithful to basic data, basic respect and statistical data and evaluate soberly what kind of recipe is meant to be used for Czech economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u159	Thank you, Mr Kupek. Mr Petr Dolínek, now with a point of fact. Mr. Bláha will prepare himself in a proper application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u160	Thank you. I'll be very quick again. Firstly, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that you are applying to the European Union, so I hope that the euro will finally be back in plenary sometime, because as you have now praised the European Union, so I think that the euro belongs to the European Union, and we can talk about it in the future, and that is correct. I am pleased that you are a great supporter of the European Union through Mr President. And as for the other thing, I'd hate for a message to come out today: either you have sick days or you have sick days. It's not like that. Sick days are simply the days that the employer offers as a benefit to its employees. It's nothing to do with this law. Please let it be said here and it has been confirmed that sick days are simply benefits that everyone can draw under their personal agreement employee vs. employer. And this law doesn't solve it. The law doesn't sweat it. And the law doesn't reject it. And that's very important to say. And I think that's how we talk, Mr. Colleague, and it's just a benefit that's possible. You're saying for the economy that it's better than the proposal, I'll admit that you can have that opinion. I say it's better to have both a chance from day one and have a full salary, virtually. Sixty percent of the salary, so at the same time have the possibility of sick days. Yes, it's a moat that I may be able to cross, but it must be said clearly: this law does not prohibit the possibility of benefits for employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u161	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jiří Bláha, now. A colleague of Mr. Skopeček will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I've made, like, a hundred comments that I'd like to respond to, but I won't. I've been asked to make this short, so I'm just gonna tell you some important things. Definitely as an employer who employs 200 people nowadays, so I have no reason, I really have no reason to be in conflict of interest. I feel the same way as the employees feel it's wrong. The wrong for them that they don't get paid for anything. But unfortunately, ten years ago, we introduced an instrument that had a real impact on the disease, and it dropped by 500 thousand - five hundred thousand - in a year, just to give you an idea. And in ten years, no one, no party has done anything to change the instrument so that the employees don't feel wrong about it, so that we can move it forward and really dignifiedly involve all our citizens in making a natural reserve, and that those who can manage, who don't abuse, have the benefits. I'm saying that incompetent isn't a saving instrument, because if an employee goes to a doctor this afternoon, when he's supposed to be in the workplace at 5:00 in the morning, then what's it gonna do? As a result, if everyone with a cold went sick at one point, maybe a bunch of crap, but even companies wouldn't open at all. We wouldn't even open negotiations here in the Chamber of Deputies. That's what needs to be realized. And as for sick days, try going to the companies where they have established it, and try asking those managers how it developed over the past few years, how many people are using it to take time off between the day of work and the day of work off when there is one working day. This means that when Sunday ends and Tuesday is a holiday, how many people take sick days just because they want to be home. Try to think about it. Personally, I think we need to go a whole different way. We need to introduce a change in the system and change pension and health insurance. I have an imaginary thing to do, which I give the name of an active citizen's balance, and I'd love to discuss it with you and open it up on the Economic Committee and on the Audit Committee, and I'll bring it up, and I'll be glad if you cooperate. But I think we should all start saving up. On the other hand, we should know how much we choose. And if we're left with more than what he's wasting, then we should be rewarded for it by the state. That's a thought. So that's it for me. I'm going to vote to cancel the Karenary period because I think it's the very wrong of those who work honestly that needs to be eliminated. And I'll be waiting for you to join me and we'll change and we'll reform pension and social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u163	I thank Mr Jiří Bláh. Before his colleague Skopeček performs, his party colleague Vojtěch Munzar will outrun him with a factual remark. I cannot react because I would have to remind you that there was also a system here by 2008. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u164	Thank you. I'll be very short. I was only surprised to hear Mr Bláha's speech through you, because he spoke quite differently to the Economic Committee that discussed this point than he does now. So his opinion has shifted. The way he explained to us here how sick days are being used, that's exactly how he spoke on the Economic Committee about incompetents. So I'm surprised by the shift of opinion, but I respect him. We all have the right to change our minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u165	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Skopeček, a colleague of Mr Válek, will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just have a few arguments as to why I will vote against the abolition of the quarantine period. The first argument is that, in my opinion and in all data, the measure has worked, the short-term disease has decreased to the level of developed countries. Until the time of the Karen period existed, the illness was above average high. And it was above average high compared to the surrounding countries, such as Slovakia, Poland, with which we always compare economically and economically, even though our health system is better and more effective than that of Slovakia or Poland. So it doesn't have any logic. Even though we compared the numbers to the sickness of self-employed workers, we also saw that the sickness of employees was higher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u167	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and ask your party colleagues, in particular, to move any debates about something else into the foyer. There's a lot of noise here, and I'd like everyone who's performing, who's been given the floor to do it in a dignified environment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u168	Thank you very much. I'm afraid that the moment the period of quarantine is lifted, the fictitious illness will rise again to the original above-average values. The fact that such a risk exists, after all, is also mentioned by the official government material, which, in connection with the discussion of the electronic medical report, says that it must be assumed that insured persons will in some cases attempt to speculatively recognise biologically unjustified temporary incapacity for work. So even government documents themselves take the risk of increasing fictitious illness, so they realize this risk. At the same time, it should be recalled, and it has already been said here several times that, in connection with the abolition of the time of the card, employees have reduced their dues. This is also an argument that, at a time when they have a higher disposable income, they can, of course, save on the savings for a period when they are sick. So it wasn't a measure that merely canceled the Karen period and passed on the costs to the employee's back, but the employees' contributions were reduced. I also strongly reject the rhetoric of those who attack employers, that they are drabs who want to have employees at any cost and at the expense of health at work. I'm very much against it. This argument is often formulated by trade unions. It's not true. Every employer will confirm that he needs an effective, healthy and satisfied employee at work, especially in the context of the labour market situation, which is very tense. That's twice as good, because if there's an employer who's not gonna be nice to an employee and force him to go to work through some kind of medical indisposition, he's probably gonna be quick to say goodbye to the employee, and he's got a big opportunity to find a job with someone else today. So this argument is very odd. I would very much like to stand up for employers here, that there are no villains who would like employees to work at the expense of their health. It would, of course, damage the employers themselves. On the contrary, employers meet employees in a number of cases, in a number of companies, and the number is increasing. There are so-called Sick days is a clear proof that employers are not just about the maximum number of hours worked, but about employers having healthy and satisfied employees in the long run. And of course, a very low unemployment rate and a large number of job vacancies will continue to force employers to provide workers with similar benefits, such as sick days. So as you can see, there's no need to change the law for everything. There's no need to have any regulation or standard for everything. In this case, the left-handed market also solves the fact that employers provide more and more benefits, such as sick days. For all these reasons, I'm against canceling the Karen's period. And I very much ask that common sense prevail in order to win the arguments that are clearly on the side of those who want to preserve the time of the Karenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u169	Thank you for the show. Now, Mr Válek, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I waited my turn, and I didn't get off with a note. Now I will take advantage of the situation and, through the President, I would like to say to my colleague that we older men - President Faltýnek will know what I am talking about - can now and again act on younger women, especially women, as less understanding and not entirely in the picture. But it doesn't have to be that way. Maybe we're considering things more. This means that I am absolutely clear to the difference between a three-day disability, between a long-term disability, between a transition, and I am simply trying to apply what I know from personal experience in the Chamber of Deputies. Because from my point of view, this debate is about finding a compromise between a significantly left-wing view of the world and a significantly right-wing view of the world so that we can treat workers as well as we can, but on the other hand, not to forget that we need to be correct towards employers. From my point of view, there will be one change if everything passes as it probably passes, and that those who go for one today, for two days, for three days on sick leave, do not have to pay for it, do not need to expose them, are simply at home, so now they will have to see a doctor, they will have to be exposed to an incapacity, so maybe I am wrong, and I will be happy to have it explained, and again after the end of one day, two days or three days' incapacity, they will have to end their disability, they will have to deliver it to the employer. I'm assuming there's gonna be an increase in doctors' visits, but the system's gonna make it, that's not a problem. Of course, the administration will increase because those incompetents require a certain administration, but surely it will not bother employers or employees. And I suppose the impact won't be significant. I understand that a person still has a number of patients who go through disease, and then there are serious consequences for them. And I want to believe that if this law or this change passes, such patients will disappear and not pass their diseases, even if I personally don't think so, but let them. I understand that a patient with a banal cold buys some pastilles or just a hot tea tonight with rum, and in the morning he thinks he's gonna pass, and it's work, so now he's not gonna take advantage of the fact that he can get on sick leave and it's gonna be paid for. And on the contrary, he'll only do it if it's really serious. And I want to believe that this will not significantly increase the number of short-term incapacity. Because that's what bothers me most and bothers me most. Of course, I'm deformed by my profession, just like all of us, because I've spent my whole life in health care and I've been moving my whole life in education. And over and over again, I encounter a situation where a doctor, a nurse, is going to serve with a mild cold, simply because someone has to provide that service. Lecturer can talk with a mild cold, try with a light cold. And I believe that any change in this system's functioning will not jeopardize it, because each of us has a slight cold, a headache, something that's banal. Each of us does it, we do it here in parliament, we do it in our civilian professions, we do it regularly. We do this at times when we are exposed to various unpleasant surrounding influences that make our defenses worse, and when we just have some sort of banal disease. I would think that it always depends on the personal responsibility and attitude of each and every one of us, how we stand up to it. [[12.00 hours]] I firmly believe and hope that if this law passes, even if I do not vote in favour, there will be no increase in the number of irresponsible people who will abuse this and threaten the functioning of some of these systems that I have been talking about. I firmly believe that this will not be the case, I firmly believe that we have thought this through, and I firmly believe that short-term incompetence will not increase. Because that's the only thing that would bother me and bother me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u171	I thank Mr Válek. Mr Jiří Bláha's point of fact is now President Stanjura with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, here it has been said - we are making fools of these people. And they live the same life as we do. That means that if there's something wrong with me and I want to go sick, there's a lot of circumstances in the first place -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u173	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace! I am not taking the time to make a point of fact, but it is really loud here, and I would need us to finish this debate in a dignified manner. [[Ambassador Bláha wants to talk.]] Just a little longer... Just a little longer... There. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u174	I would like to hear here that citizens are not fools and often do not get sick because of the money. Really, I think it's a very little proxy problem. These people can't be sick for personal reasons. And those reasons are different - family responsibilities, they have a movie theater, a musical, they have to pay loans or debts, they go on vacation or they have some personal interests or they also have some personal responsibility, for example, towards a colleague who wanted to stay at home on vacation, and the moment he didn't come to work, his colleague would have to cancel his vacation. So it's not just because they lose money. That's just the way it is. They live the same life as us, they're no worse or any better. We're a sample of what's behind this wall, and we're acting the same way these people are. So if I know I have something planned tomorrow, I'm not gonna be sick today because that's what I want to do. So that's how these people live perfectly normal. So let's not push it because everyone's doing it just for a mammon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u175	Thank you. With priority for the debate, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u176	Thank you for the floor. No one's checking in, so I don't think it's a priority right, but that's okay. I would like to sum up our club's position and draw your attention to the amendment I made on behalf of our club. In that factual reminder I had, I said that I fully respect another political view and that I prefer factual arguments in this debate. So before I go to the amendment, I'm gonna try a few general things and a few numbers. We will support the proposal to reject this bill because we think that the instrument works, that it is not exceptional in Europe, that it is also used in other Western European countries and that the pros prevail over the negatives of the system as it is set up today. And I'm going to try to say these numbers, and I'm going to try to get out of the average wage and the median wage, and I'm sorry to round it to thousands to make it count. I said that every month, the employee saves 1.6 percentage points - 1.6 - 1.1 and 0.5 - 1.6 percentage points of what he had to pay before the introduction of the period. So if we take the average wage and round it to 30 grand. - I'll be moving in 2018, I won't be moving in the previous years - so it's CZK 480 a month, which is about 5,700 a year if I round it. On top of that, we can see how often such an employee would have three days of unpaid sick leave in the first three days. If I take the median-- I round again-- it's 25,000. monthly, then the sum is CZK 400 a month, and it's simply 4,800 saved every year for the 10 years it's 48,000. Then I just want to remind you - I think we may all know this in this room, but not everyone who listens and watches our debate - that sick leave counts, pays or doesn't pay for every calendar day, not every working day. And unfortunately, I don't know the statistics of those three days unpaid, if there was an intervention on that weekend. Because if someone gets on sick leave on Friday, they're actually losing time, one day, not three. If on Thursday, he's missing two days, and if Monday through Wednesday, he's missing all three days. But in addition to that, let's give the savings on taxes or contributions or insurance premiums, as we call it, it's not important, it's CZK 480 extra every month at average wage and CZK 400 at wage, which is equal to the median. However, so that the opposition does not merely criticize and say that it is wrong and does not lead only to the right-left conflict, so we have prepared an amendment that I have made and which I will give you a brief explanation once more and which I really believe is a compromise between the two distinct views, when on the one hand it says to leave the existing system, and the other point of view says let's cancel the time of the card. The content of this amendment is - and I will now speak first of all to the Members and Members of the largest government club, the club of the ANO movement. The amendment actually honors the coalition agreement and the government's programming statement, which is why I am talking about compromise, not the political opinion of our party, because the political view is to reject this proposal - it says yes, the time of the Karenary will be abolished and the first three days of sick leave for employees will be reimbursed, at a rate of 60 per cent of the daily assessment base, which actually corresponds to the political opinion of the other government party. If I quote from the Government's programming statement - all information, as I say here, is contained in the amendment that you all have available on the Chamber of Deputies' website - I quote: From 1 July 2019 we will resume compensation for wages in the first three working days of incapacity of 60 per cent of the daily assessment base and discuss how to compensate employers for this step. - Mine or our amendment fully respects the first sentence, i.e. leaves the date of application on 1 July 2019, the remuneration will be renewed in the first three days of sickness, at the level proposed by the petitioners, i.e. 60 per cent of the daily measurement base. So this is what we agree on when I take this amendment and the original proposal. What we do not agree on, and the amendment will be a vote on, is the second sentence which says: we will discuss ways to compensate employers for this step. Our proposal is being made, and my colleague Mr Bauer has spoken about it repeatedly, from a rather unique situation where all employers, regardless of size, from businessmen to the largest companies, have the same opinion. We know very well that on other economic issues these opinions differ logically, other interests are small and small entrepreneurs, other our biggest entrepreneurs, the biggest employers. It's logical, it's natural, it's normal. Here's a unique situation that everyone agrees. Very often, especially colleagues from the left side of the political spectrum talk about the importance of tripartite. It should be said that the original proposal of the appellants does not support all three sides of tripartite, but only two - unions and the great support of one party of government and such sustained support of the other party. But employers do not support this proposal. When I had the opportunity to debate with employers' representatives at all those levels, from the smallest to the largest, and I debated with them this amendment of ours, it is an acceptable compromise for them. If the appellants were honestly looking for the agreement of all three sides of social dialogue, they would come forward with this and support this amendment. [[12.10 hours]] So I will repeat: the effective date, the refund and the amount of the amendment are the same. We propose that the compensation for employers should be close to zero, unlike the plaintiffs of this law. And the government's already backing out of those, I'd say, agreed assumptions. Let's see what could be the content of the compensation to employers, so that they too can be satisfied. First of all, the introduction of an eIncompetent. We already know that July 1st isn't gonna make it. So this compensation will not be met and we will see when. Now I don't want to guess whether it's going to be from January 1, 2020 or other, I don't have enough information and enough facts to say here with full seriousness: it's going to be from then and then. But we agree, and I would say that everyone, that this is a good tool that should accompany the abolition of the Karenary period. It is already a concession on our part that we do not make this amendment subject to this date of effectiveness of eIncapacity. The second thing that could compensate for the increased cost to employers... [[The speaker is silent.]] I'm also listening to the Prime Minister's debate. It's interesting to me, so I'm sorry for shutting up for a second. The second thing that we can compensate for the increased costs to employers is a more pronounced reduction in paid insurance for employers. We're suggesting that it's not two tenths of a percentage point, but that it's half a percentage point. Another thing that could help, of course, is not in the law, but in the executives, is the greater possibility of involving foreign employees from our culturally and civilised countries, because I will not repeat the words that have been said today about the situation on the labour market. I think we all know that. And the quantification of missed opportunities, rejected contracts, and thus the refusal to actually increase the income of the pension system, the health insurance system, taxes on dependent activities, is estimated to be tens of billions. Maybe it could be more. Of these three things, we are only able to really solve the middle one these days and weeks, which means increasing the compensation to half a percent. The fourth essential condition of the compensation is that employers pay day 1-11 instead of day 4-14. This means that I do not understand, and I would ask the representatives of the petitioners, but also the representatives of the ANO movement, what is the problem with this amendment. It retains the deadline, retains the refund, retains the amount. Then it seems to me that the only reason - or reason I can think of two. The first, politically prestigious, that it will be exactly in the version written by the Social Democrats, and they will beat each other in the breasts for three and a half years, as they put it, and the second is the general distrust of this political party on employers. I'm referring to employers, I'm not saying businessmen, because not all employers are businessmen. Because what's wrong with us compensating for our decisions, the legislative activities, the effects for employers? What's wrong with that? That is what I would like to hear from representatives of social democracy and, where appropriate, representatives of the ANO movement. That's why it's a compromise, what I'm defending here. If I were to talk in flames and convince you to reject the bill with us, I know I wouldn't succeed. Still, I think that's the smartest thing we can do. But if it doesn't pass, we have a compromise on the table that fulfills the part of the political agreement on which the government came into being, and at the same time doesn't burden employers. What's wrong with that? That's what I want to hear. I have not yet heard the argument against this amendment. I've heard arguments against leaving the current state. I understand. I don't want to repeat the debate. I don't want us to keep saying the arguments back and forth. This is an opposition hand that will help employers and employees. Not a single party will pay for it in this political duel. And I have to say it again, even though I've said it repeatedly, let's not turn employers against employees! It's not like that in real life at all. There are enough employers in our ranks, whether they run public institutions, self-government or private companies. Each of them will confirm that what is best for the institution, the municipality, the region, the state enterprise or the private enterprise are employees. Then why do we want to burden employers? If we burden them and increase their costs, in addition, Mr Juříček spoke about it, that the collection of corporate tax may fall, we will also narrow the scope for possible wage increases. We will narrow down the scope for possible salary increases because additional costs will arise and money that would event. they could have used those companies either for wages or for investments, for development, for the acquisition of new contracts, they would have to use them under this law to compensate for their losses. What's right with that? I would like to ask those supporters, the plaintiff, to tell us what is wrong with the compromise amendment. I'm asking you all to support him. You will fulfill what you promised your coalition partners, and you will not harm your employers at the same time. I think that's a decent political compromise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u177	Thank you. We are continuing the general debate. Mrs Richterová will perform in it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u178	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I would just like to point out for the Pirates Club that we are pleased that there is a relatively broad consensus that the 60 per cent of the daily assessment base, in other words 60 per cent of the salary in the first week of the disease, is actually such an adequate compromise to ensure that people with low incomes in particular are not in a very difficult situation when they are ill and, at the same time, to have some demotive element to think about whether they are really ill or not. So these 60 percent of the daily assessment base, not 100 percent of the salary, as neighbouring Germany has, is exactly the kind of compromise that means politics. I think from the way the discussion sounds, there's a good chance we can agree on this. Just after this long discussion, the last highlight of the fact that it is actually very differently perceived by different professions, by different sectors. There are a number of companies that are not likely to be affected by this measure, because different companies already use sick days, even if they use the difference between wages in sickness and normal wages - 29 percent of companies use sick days as benefits. It is therefore a huge difference between professions, say qualified, white collars, and also in these professions then it is not counted that their employee stayed at home because he is a bit sick and thus got home office or has arranged a sick day. So we don't know what real short-term illness is today. And one last point. We have a number of professions in our country where, on the other hand, we are going to deal with not so much of the Karen period itself in the future, but huge overtime, and that is why we have about two years lower life expectancy than in the rest of the EU. So we can welcome today's discussion as well as some step towards making sure, both in jobs and in our personal lives, that we can actually live as long as our neighbors on the western side of the border. [[12.20 hours]] And one final point. In the Pirát, we firmly believe that the steps taken in the preparation of eIncompetents are well-started. We'll keep an eye on it. And the electronization of the state administration, which Minister Maláčová has promised, is an absolute priority for us. So, once again, by concluding the discussion, a brief position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u179	Thank you. The debate is also attended by President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u180	Thank you very much. Once again, with all due respect for the contribution that has just been made, and it has not been the only speech that says that in the current situation that you want to change, people, especially low-income people, will be in an extremely difficult situation if they are ill in the short term. Please, one more time. I know it's in vain, but I want it to be said. We're talking about the insurance system. The purpose of insurance is to be as secure as possible against situations that, if God willing, will not come. In optional flood systems, burnout. I'm making sure, but I hope it doesn't happen to me. Even the purpose of this system is to be best ensured in the event of a really serious long-term illness, where I firmly hope that none will ever happen to me. And then I want my standard of living not to fall, if possible, to be dignifiedly secured in such a case, and I'm making sure of that. I'm insureing something that's unexpected. What, God willing, he's not coming. While the fact that I get a cold every once in a while is exactly the same certainty that every once in a while I have to go buy shoes. And I can't be sure of that either. When do I get to know here that we're just gonna have to contribute to shoes because people who need to buy shoes get into a very difficult social situation? We are talking about the degree of participation here, and we dare to say that given the situation in which the structure of our budgets is, three days of the Karen Age are a bearable contribution that can't, when it's known in advance and everyone in that family budget has to count on it, which simply can't put anyone in a serious situation. On the contrary, if you behave this way, you will get into a serious situation in the foreseeable future of all those who will want to be protected in a serious problem for the long term. That's just the balance between the involvement, the personal responsibility and the system I'm insured with. I know I speak in vain. I know I'm talking for nothing. It is precisely because all insurance systems, including social and health systems, to be sustainable, functional and effective in the long term, simply contains one politically suicidal sentence: More personal responsibility, more personal involvement. Otherwise, it's long-term unsustainable. And the vast majority of this House fears this sentence like the devil of the cross and refuses to admit it's true. And so he is preparing very, very serious difficulties over a long time, as Mr Juříček said, that is the short-term view and the long-term one. We, TOP 09 is a non-populist and responsible party. Therefore, he cannot ignore the long-term view and therefore we cannot support your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u181	Thank you. Mr Bláha will respond with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, just briefly I really want to introduce you to how employees are paid during the period of sickness. We do not realise this at all, but here, through the President, I would like to respond to the pirát, because they are telling you that they are receiving 105 percent or 100 percent in Germany. But with us, it's 105 percent. Because once you've been sick longer, you get over 70 percent of your sick pay, but for every day that's wasted, that means even in days when you don't normally get the money at work. So maybe that's the answer why some employees or some people get sick in the long run because, in the end, they get a lot more in their pocket than if they go to work. Besides, they don't have to pay for transportation, they have cheaper food and they're fine. So just so you know, we may actually be further away than in Germany, because we pay those employees even more than if they go to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u183	Thank you. The President Kalousek will respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u184	We have such an amazing quality that every time it suits us, we tell them how it is in a neighboring country, and we take the detail out of the whole system of his social state and security. Yes, in Germany, it's a zero-card period. And in England again 14 days, in Spain 3 days. For God's sake, let's adapt it to our own conditions, our own situation, our own sustainability of insurance systems and our own development. There it has somehow proved and proved that the three days of the Karen age is ideal or optimal, the ideal does not exist in this case, but is the optimal solution which is simply taken by a certain part of this House as a political fetish, and as a political fetish here promotes it. Colleagues sitting here against me know I'm right. They would never dare raise their hand for something like this. But they're gonna raise their hand for it, 'cause a closer shirt than a coat. They're much less interested in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u185	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? I don't see an application, so I'm done with the debate. The final words are next. Is he interested? Yes, the plaintiff. Her final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u186	I would like to thank all Members for the debate on behalf of the petitioner. Of course, I'm asking you for the petitioner, let's renew the sickness from the first day of the illness. Let's stop punishing the sick for the disease. And we really believe, as promoters, that the dignity of people in sickness is not a fetish. It's not a fetish. As regards renewed sickness from the first day, this is 60 per cent of the assessment base, which means half the salary. Half the wages. It's not a party. To employers and employees. They failed to reach agreement in 2008. They did not reach agreement with the government at the joint table in 2018. The proposal we are proposing is approaching the highest compromise that employees and employers were able to reach in 2016. And that's on your desk. The proposal put forward by President Stanjura, because I owe him an answer, was discussed in the context of a social dialogue, but more stringent than he is. Even tougher, because he was counting on the renewal of the employee's insurance. Even then and then, employers disagreed. According to the petitioners, employers' compensation is sufficient. It's 3.5 billion. Crowns. And I have already described in the general debate how it is or is not, in our opinion, it is our opinion, of course, of us petitioners, with compensations that arose in 2008 when the system changed. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the substantive debate that was held in this House plenary. And please, for the petitioner, let's renew the payment of sick leave from day one. It's a matter of dignity. Dignity in sickness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u187	Thank you. The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u188	Unfortunately, the debate is already closed, I have no choice but to respond. It always depends on how we interpret numbers. The increased costs on the employers' side will be about 8 billion. We could say 3 billion. Compensating. I'd believe I'd get 11 billion. This way the loss for the employer will be an additional cost of 5 billion. She can put it as the plaintiff, that it's a compensation of 3 billion, but 3 of 8. And 5 billion. additional cargo. I would, with permission, like the last thing in this debate, quote the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, by its finding of 24 April 2012, declared under number 186/2012 Coll., rejected the motion for the abolition of the period of quarantine, inter alia, with these conclusions. It is only three paragraphs, don't worry, we will have a vote, it is no obstruction, but it is quite serious and reflects the debate and arguments that the advocates of this bill have used. The Constitutional Court stated: The statutory incorporation of the three-day period of the Karenary associated with the exemption of employees from the obligation to pay sickness insurance premiums and the state employment policy is not an unconstitutional restriction on the right to material security when unfit for work guaranteed by the provisions of Article 30 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional regulation of this basic social law leaves legislators relatively, although not boundlessly, a broad scope for setting up their legal parameters. This is the provision of Article 41 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the In addition, the Constitutional Court has stated or ruled: The contested regulation has passed a reasonable test, which is the measure of constitutionality when examining the rights listed in Article 41 (1) of the Treaty. 1 The Charter, since it does not interfere with the very core of the right to material security in incapacity for work, pursues a legitimate objective and has chosen rational and not arbitrary means to achieve this objective. The final quote from the Constitutional Court's decision: A three-day period of Karen's period and a related income loss are some kind of interference with the income of the persons concerned, but it is not such an intervention that would instantly make it impossible for sick persons to achieve a material standard sufficient to lead a dignified life. Temporarily incompetent does not expose an impossible situation. Those are the words of the Constitutional Court, not opposition politicians.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Kalousek is also registered with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u190	I'm sorry. I can understand that we have a different opinion about this thing, but I still have to turn against the argumentator's foul of argument that says let's stop punishing the sick for the disease. Oh, my God, is participation in the insurance system a punishment? Or is participation in public budgets even a punishment? If anyone pays income tax, is he being punished for working? If I go to buy diapers for my grandsons and pay VAT there - KDU-ČSL reminds me that still the basic one, because the reduced one can't be paid there - am I being punished for buying diapers for my grandsons? If I go to the pharmacy and pay my medical bills, I'm being punished for being sick and having to pay my medical bills? What nonsense is this? What are we saying here? This is simply normally all regular participation, and that participation is a necessary measure of co-responsibility for the long-term sustainability of these systems. Unfortunately, this responsibility has been lost by most communists in most political parties in this House, and so it will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u191	Thank you. We continue with the final words. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee if he is interested in the final word. He's not interested. Similarly, the rapporteur, Bauer, is entitled to the final vote for the Economic Committee. He's also not interested in the final word. Before we proceed to the adoption of the procedure for voting on the amendments, we must deal with the motion for rejection that has been made and which we will now be dealing with under the Rules of Procedure. I'm hearing an application for a check-out that I've granted. You're all checked out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We're ready for the vote. We are voting on a motion to dismiss. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 156, 186 Members registered, for 34, versus 137. The motion was not accepted. We'll deal with the law further. I now ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the draft procedure and to implement us with individual amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Social Policy, I propose the following procedure. The motion to dismiss is behind us. He's been voted. Next will be point A, which is Mr Karel Rais's amendment, followed by Mr Karel Krejza's amendment under letter B, followed by Mrs Kateřina Valachová's amendments D1 through D6 en bloc. If these proposals are adopted, proposals from C1 to C5 and E1 to E12 are unvoted, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's amendments from E1 to E12 en bloc in the event that the proposals from D1 to D6 are not adopted. If proposals E1 to E12 are adopted, therefore, the non-voting proposals C1 to C5 are unvoting. We will also be able to vote on the amendments by Mrs Lucie Šafránková C1 through C5 en bloc, if, of course, they are not adopted by D1 through D6 or E1 through E12. Finally, we would vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u193	Thank you, rapporteur. Is the draft procedure clear? I think so. I'll put this procedure to a vote. Who's in? Initiating vote. Who's against it? Voting number 157, 186 Members registered, in favour of 185. We've approved the procedure, we'll follow it. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u194	We would now vote on Mr Karel Rais's amendment under A.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u195	I ask for the committee's opinion. [[Opinion of the Committee - without an opinion.]] The plaintiff? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 158, 188 Members registered, for 157, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u196	We would now vote on Mr Karel Krejza's amendment under letter B. The Committee's position is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u197	The plaintiff? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 159, 190 Members registered, for 33, against 108. This proposal has not been adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u198	We would now vote on the amendments by Mrs Kateřina Valachová D1 to D6 en bloc with one vote. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u199	The plaintiff? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 160, 191 Members voted in favour of 125, against 38. The motion was accepted. You may proceed, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u200	So now that proposal D1 to D6 has been adopted, the E1 to E12 and C1 to C5 should be unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u201	Yes, it is, it corresponds to an approved procedure, so if we agree on that, we have dealt with all the amendments that we could have voted on. We will now proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole. President Stanjura, I will, of course, give him the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u202	I would like a legislative opinion. The six proposals by Mrs Valachová were certainly not made with the twelve proposals that I made. I agree that some points were the same as efficiency, so the proposal is unvoteable, for example. E12 corresponds to D1 etc. But I did not want to delay the procedure, I believed that the proposal would not pass, but I would like to know an explanation of how none of these points of E1 to 12 were voteable because they did not contain counterproposals on all those points of Mrs Valachová's proposal. Thank you for your explanation before the final vote. I think the fate of these proposals is clear they won't pass, but I don't think we can say that they're unvoted. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u203	I ask the rapporteur to comment on this issue or to propose a further procedure. If you do not do so, because we have approved the procedure, we will have to take a vote. Mr. President Stanjura, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u204	I am only given, of course, the consultation of legislation in the event of the counter-proposal is necessary, because I, of course, received this opinion when preparing the report from the legislation. If you have others, we need to discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u205	Yes. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u206	Maybe I could have said that in the procedure, but the position of the legislation is comical. When the vote is put together, one part of it is repeated, so there is no voting on those parts that we have not voted on. I consider it a failure of legislation, indeed a comical position, because we have not voted on some of the proposals at all, at all. So you should have warned the rapporteur that some of the proposals are against each other, for example. The E12 is not voteable because it has been adopted by D1, and so forth, and not so easily condemning all twelve parts of my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u207	Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Pikal with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u208	I have therefore not studied in detail those amendments which are against which, but I would like to call on colleagues from the ODS to do so, Mr President, if they do not agree with the procedure, so as to show this at a time when the procedure is being discussed, so that we can deal with this at that time and not until now in the middle of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u209	President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u210	Sorry, the procedure is fine, we said that when the amendments that were before are voted, the others are unvoted, but then the unvoted ones that are really unvoted. That is, if E1 through E12 are in conflict on five six points and are unvoteable, we voted that we will vote in whole, I assume that President Stanjura has no objection that we will vote in whole those that remain voteable, but we cannot say that they are all unvoteable. And so I also understood the procedure when I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u211	Yes, I will say one more word before I decide the matter as President, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u212	Then I recommend to the House that we vote on it. Otherwise, we will proceed illegally, because we will not vote on some of the amendments tabled, and this is an illegal procedure. That's all. So it seems to me that we will not vote on anything, like obstructive behavior of those who want the law. What's the problem with voting on those we haven't voted on yet? I think the outcome is clear, but the procedure must be followed even though we know the likely outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u213	Mr Chvojka also reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u214	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 13th hour is approaching when we would like to vote for this important law. I think it's probably best to let some colleagues vote on what they think was meant to be voted and not voted on, rather than discussing whether it was meant to be for an hour. Let's try, do what the opposition might rightly suggest, and I think it's better than thinking about it here for an hour - no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u215	Mr President, I did not fully understand your proposal. What's that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u216	I think the proposal was made, perhaps not quite clear to you, but your colleagues from the ODS noded that they understood it, that is, to vote those points E1 through E12 so that the procedure was done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u217	Thank you. That would be a proposal that I would come up with, but this is not a question of whether colleagues from the ODS understand this, but I have not heard you and, as the President, I need to understand what the substance of your proposal is. I would ask the rapporteur to propose a further procedure to us in accordance with this agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u218	Can I ask for three minutes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u219	Okay, I'm okay with this request, I think it's also the right one. I am interrupting the House of Deputies meeting until 12.49 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the announced interruption by 12.49 hours has lasted less than a minute, but the deal has been made. So we can continue. I ask the rapporteur to inform us of the outcome of this agreement and the voting procedure. At the same time, I ask everyone to create the conditions for us to complete the vote. I don't think it's possible for us to continue until, for example, you have access to the speaker's desk. [[Several Members are standing in front of the speaker's desk, blocking access to it.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u221	Thank you for the floor. So I'm going to ask you quickly, if you can revise the previous resolution, go back to voting for the procedure, vote for the procedure, vote for the first-row block under the letter E, then block under the letter C, and finally block under the letter D, with which all the representatives of the petitioners agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u222	Okay. There is a proposal for a review of the vote on the procedure. I shall first put to the vote whether you agree to the proposal to revise the vote on the procedure. I think that's understandable. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's serial number 161 voting. There are 191 Members registered, for 180, against 3. We have adopted this proposal and it means that we will vote again on the draft procedure. And please, once again, the rapporteur, so that there is no confusion. What is the design of the procedure now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u223	Okay, first of all. We're done with the motion to dismiss the law. Secondly, it is number A, Mr Rais's amendment. Furthermore, under letter B, Mr Krejza's amendment. Subsequently, block E1 to E12 of Mr Stanjura. Subsequently, C1 through C5 by Mrs Šafránková. And then D1 through D6 by Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u224	Yes, this proposal is understandable, but with priority rights, President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u225	Thank you, it's understandable, and I can't agree with that. 'Cause we re-revised the voting procedure, that's okay. However, we have not been stuporing the results of Mr Rais's vote and Mr Krejza's vote. And we've already voted on those. And I refuse to vote a second time on what I have already voted on without the result of the vote being revised. I'm sorry, this is the Chamber of Deputies, it's not a pigsty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u226	Chairman Chvojka with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u227	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask, or suggest, if we could not vote that we will still vote on this law at third reading after 13:00, because this is going to be the case here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u228	I'll answer you right away, Mr. Chairman. We do not have to vote on anything because we can vote on the laws at third reading by 14 o'clock under the Rules of Procedure. The 13 o'clock break is a matter of habit, and as I understand it, there is a consensus here that we will continue the negotiations until we vote this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u229	Okay. Well, that's good news. It was sometimes voted and sometimes it didn't, but if there's a deal that we can do after 13 o'clock, then I'm happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u230	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur to respond to President Kalousek's objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u231	So, if I understood it correctly, it was attacked that we voted and did not react to two amendments Three even, yes, A, B and D. [[From among the ministers it is said that three proposals.]] And I propose that we review these resolutions as well and follow the procedure that we have now agreed to in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u232	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u233	I agree with that, but in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, only those who voted in favour can propose this review. I think the rapporteur has voted in favour of A and D, so I propose that we also review the vote on point B, where we voted in favour. Because a review cannot be proposed by the person who voted against. So, the rapporteur proposes a revision under letter A and D, and I propose a revision under letter B, and I suggest that we revisit it with one vote, unless there is an objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It really is. Only those who voted in favour can make a motion for a review. In that case, as you have just said, this provision of the Rules of Procedure is respected. I have noted the proposal that we vote on the revision with one vote. I'm asking if there's an objection. There is an objection from the President of the Chamber of Deputies. In that case, we shall vote individually. This means that we will vote on the revision of the resolution of Amendment B, A and D. rapporteur, please take this vote for us. Or you don't have to, I'll do the rehearsal. So, first of all, we will vote on the revision of the resolution by which we approved the amendments under letter A. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of the rehearsal? Who's against it? It's serial number 162 voting. The registration is 190 Members, for 176, against 8. The motion was accepted. Now the retreat letter B. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of the rehearsal? Who's against it? It's serial number 163 voting. There are 190 Members registered, for 174, against 10. The motion was accepted. Next up is the vote on Revoking D. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of the rehearsal? Who's against it? It's serial number 164 voting. There are 190 Members registered, for 172, against 10. The motion was accepted. According to my notes, we have now reviewed the procedure, we have reviewed the proposals that have been voted on, and we have approved a new procedure. So now we can vote on individual amendments in accordance with the approved procedure. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u235	So, first of all, it is an amendment a an amendment to Mr Karel Rais. The opinion of the Committee shall be without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u236	The plaintiff's opinion? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's serial number 165 voting. 190 Members are registered, for 162, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u237	Mr Karel Krejza's amendment is now followed by letter B. The opinion of the Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u238	The plaintiff's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's serial number 166 voting. 189 Members are registered, for 39, against 103. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u239	We will now vote on Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's amendments E1 to E12 en bloc by one vote. Opinion of the Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u240	The plaintiff? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 167. Registered 189 Members, for 48, against 94. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u241	We will now vote on Mrs Lucie Šafránková C1 to C5 en bloc's amendments with one vote. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u242	The plaintiff? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 168. Registered 190 Members, for 23, against 134. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u243	We will now vote on the amendments by Mrs Kateřina Valachová D1 to D6 en bloc with one vote. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u244	The plaintiff? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 169. Registered 190 Members, for 131, against 29. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u245	We can now vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u246	Yes. We will vote on the following motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Jan Hamáček, Jan Birk, Kateřina Valachová and Petr Dolínek to issue a law amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House press 109, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 170. Registered 189 Members, for 128, against 35. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Let's hear it for members of the government coalition.]] I'm done discussing this point, I'm done discussing the House of Deputies in the morning. Meet me again at 2:30 p.m. and we'll continue with the fixed item number 169.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u247	Good afternoon. I therefore initiate the afternoon agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, and before I open the item, with priority rights, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u248	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I need to comment on the vote on paragraph 113, the amendment to the Labour Code, namely voting number 156, which was... where it was a motion to reject the proposal. I was in charge of the meeting at the time, so I couldn't check that I had a vote on the record, that I was delayed. In doing so, I voted in favour of returning this proposal. Please, I do not question the vote, only for the tape screen I set the way I voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-001-113.u249	Thank you. And before I open the point, here I have, I see, a series of apologies. First of all, Mr Michálek apologizes until 4:30 a.m. from today's meeting, Mr Jan Hrnčíř apologizes between 14:30 a.m. and 19 a.m. on account of the meeting, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from 14:30 a.m. to the end of the meeting for business Tomáš, Petříček Petr Dolínek apologizes for this afternoon's meeting from 14:30 a.m. to the end of the meeting, Mr Jiří Bláha apologises from 15:00 a.m. to the end of the meeting for working reasons, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises between 14:30 a.m. to 4:00 a.m. because of the doctor's visit, Mr Petr Dolínek apologizes again and at a different time than I originally read, so here it is from 15:45 a.m. to the end of the meeting day for working reasons, so the previous apology was from 14:30 to the end of the sitting day, so it is important. And lastly, Mr David Kasal has been apologizing since 14.30 for medical reasons. That was an apology. We will now proceed to the next item approved by the Chamber of Deputies' agenda, which is
