ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u1	37. Government draft law on the processing of personal data / House printing 138/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar. Please take your word for it, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u2	Hello, thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, this proposal is an adaptation of the Czech rule of law to the requirements of the general regulation on the protection of personal data under the abbreviation GDPR and, at the same time, implements the European directive on the protection of personal data in criminal matters. The proposal was prepared by the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with the Office for Personal Data Protection. This proposal completes the task taken over by the last government because elections have entered into the preparation of the law, so there has been some delay and interruption of these works. The Government has taken the preparation of the regulation responsibly and has supplemented it with amendments to the laws in other departments to ensure that the rules of law are properly prepared for the General Data Protection Regulation. [[It's noisy again in the hall.]] The Act on Personal Data Processing repeals the existing Act on Personal Data Protection -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u3	I'm sorry, Minister. I'm asking you again to calm down. Please take your seats. If there's anything you didn't have time to discuss, please go to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In addition to adapting the General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR also transposes a criminal law directive that regulates the processing of personal data by judicial and police authorities. The proposed law also provides for derogations allowing Member States to apply GDPR to the extent possible in order to facilitate the implementation of GDPR as far as possible. The draft of this law also regulates the position of the Office for Personal Data Protection. It is based on the requirement of practice as well as on the new requirements of European law, both on the full independence of supervisory authorities, but also on the intensive cooperation and codecision of supervisory authorities, particularly in cross-border cases. Finally, on behalf of the Government, I would like to ask you to approve the procedure under Section 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that is to say, to give consent to the draft law at first reading, as the general regulation on the protection of personal data will come into effect on 25 May this year. The current entry into force of both standards will prevent the risks of a dispute with the European Commission on proper adaptation and implementation, and will also increase the legal certainty of controllers and processors of personal data. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u5	Thank you, Minister, for making it and drowning the House. I'm gonna ask you once again, it's a topic of GDPR, it's a lot of newspapers, I'm sure there's gonna be a big discussion, so please start focusing on it and sit in your seats, stop making noise. I'd hate to start naming some colleagues. Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur, who is Mr Marek Benda for first reading, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u6	Mr President, Minister, dear fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will be speaking at the first moment as Vice-President of the ODS Parliamentary Club when I do not have my chairman here. I am communicating the veto of ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN, Pirates, social democracy and, as I estimate, everyone else, but I didn't have time to talk to them at 90. This cannot really be discussed in the scheme § 90. Just so we're clear, we're gonna be in normal mode today. And then I'll take the word for it as rapporteur. [[10.10 hours]] I have to say, we're in an extremely complicated situation. Czech Republic and this House. The general regulation on the processing of personal data - the very choice that the European Union has decided to go the way of the regulation was a very unfortunate act that we have not been able to prevent. It was a very unfortunate decision, which then becomes directly binding in individual countries. Instead of going along the path of the directive, we have taken the path of a directly binding regulation, in which we are then unable in many ways to do our interpretations, to adapt to our legal order, and it gives rise to an incredible public panic. In addition, the government - and I am not actually blaming this government right now, nor this minister of the interior, because I understand that it was given a lot of reasons outside the political system, but instead of having this law here two years ago, there was a fundamental debate about what we can fix in it, or at least a year ago, what we can adjust in it, how we can adjust it, so this debate was conducted on a more or less official level. Ninety percent of it thus focused on the fight within the Office for the Protection of Personal Data on the monocratism or democratism of such an office. And the public was called "nothing's wrong." And now, as a public, it starts to say "it's happening." Directive, respectively. Regulation shall enter into force on 25 May. It's binding on everyone. It doesn't really matter if we do anything here or if we don't, 'cause they just commit. And nice citizens, subjects, entrepreneurs, do your thing. I find this extremely unfortunate, but I say I am not objectively able to blame the current Home Secretary for this because he is responsible for only four months or five months in which he is in office. And that's the first general point. That's why I think we should discuss the bill normally in peace. We don't have to rush into the '90s. In fact, all we're capable of doing is some possible exceptions and lockouts, and we're supposed to have some serious fun over them. I would like to draw your attention in the first place to the regulation, which actually allows exceptions and exclusions for national legislation in about five of my articles, which I quote at this moment, where we have some space to take place. The first area which allows for a European regulation is contained in Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 23 in which the limits are: "The law of the Union or of the Member State to which the controller or processor is subject may, by means of a legislative measure, restrict the scope of the obligations and rights referred to in Articles 12 to 22 and Article 34, as well as in Article 5, to the extent that the provisions of this Article correspond to the rights and obligations laid down in Articles 12 to 22, provided that such a restriction respects the substance of fundamental rights and freedoms and constitutes the necessary and proportionate measures in a democratic society with a view to ensuring' - and now lists (a) to (j) - national security, defence, public security, prevention, which I consider essential. And why I want to attract the attention of this House are the writings. (i) and (j) - the protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others and the enforcement of civil claims. Unfortunately, as the bill was written in the purely official form, where the Ministry was just doing so, and there was no political oversight, so the Ministry had relatively withdrawn the exceptions of various areas - national security, defence, public security. But the only thing where we could give some exclusion for citizens and for other entities is the protection of data subjects and the freedoms of others and the enforcement of civil claims, there are no lockouts. I consider this to be a mistake because it will have to be imported by some interpretation of the regulation or interpretations that will then be accepted by the association of the Office for Personal Data Protection. This is the first exception that I think we need to discuss in committee discussions whether there is still room for any lockout. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 85 makes it possible to lock out when processing personal data in connection with freedom of expression and movement of information. It's a pretty big deal again. The European Union is aware that there are two fundamental human rights against each other and that they need to be balanced in some way. I'm not quite sure that part of the law that deals with the press license is enough. If there's enough weight and counterweight. I think it's something we have to do between first and second reading. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 89 envisages guarantees and derogations relating to processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes. We will have to examine quite carefully whether we really have all these lockouts sufficiently contained, especially with regard to the processing of personal data and questions relating to the examination, for example. The communist past, where even allows the directive, the regulation is aware that it is a state that has been totalitarian for decades, when the state power has behaved towards its citizens in a way that is inappropriate and rude to citizens, and that it is necessary to map this and that it is not possible to approach the question that former State Security officers will come to the archives and say: I have the right to be forgotten that I have ever been an officer of State Security, and I have the right to be struck out. I'm just not 100% sure it's really covered in the design. Other lockouts are confidentiality obligations, which relate mainly to regulated professions, but I will get to that when we talk about individual articles. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 91 - established rules on data protection applied by churches and religious societies. This concerns, in particular, the various birthmarks of baptisms, the matrimony of marriages and other questions, where I also feel that nothing has happened. Maybe it's enough, but the reason message isn't really dealing with it, and I think we need to see if it's happened or not. I would now move on to the bill as such with some remarks that I would like to make. First of all, I very much welcome the fact that we have embarked on a journey... on the question of age. In particular, the consent of the personal data subject to the processing of his personal data that we did not go through the way of reducing the age below the age usual in our civil codes 15 years to 13. I know that's the thought. The European Regulation assumes that this can happen. Fortunately, the Czech Republic is on the right track for 15 years, and until then there must be parents who let their children go on different Facebook and other questions. In paragraph 11 there are those partial lockouts which I fear are not sufficient, for Art. 23, as I quoted him. This is especially the protection of civil rights, which is relatively essential for a number of entities moving on the market, where it is not possible to assume only that consent has been given, but typically for companies that I borrow from, with which I have a relationship, so withdrawal of consent does not mean that they have to delete me from that database if I still have a contract with them. There's no way a client would come and say, "I borrowed $20 million from you, but now I don't want you to process my personal data. I still owe you 18, but you cross me out and don't ever turn to me again. Well, those are the questions that are... Civil rights must be guarded in this regard, and I think we need to look at whether this is actually sufficiently treated. [[10.20 hours]] I've already talked about the press license, I suppose colleagues from other committees will talk about it, and we'll get to it. It is particularly concerned with part two. Then I would like to stop for a moment at Section 26, where I would like to point out, in my opinion, the total absurdity that our rule of law is getting into. On the one hand, we have the right to information and everyone feels that they have the right to be informed of everything and that they have the right to climb into any database of everything. At the same time, we try to protect some information completely logically, e.g. information from criminal proceedings and other questions. But we will come to a situation that § 26 para. 3 tells me - and please be careful: "If compliance with a request or notification of failure to comply with a request, including the justification, would result in a threat in accordance with paragraph 3. The data subject shall be informed by the managing authority as well as by those applicants whose personal data he does not process.' What's that supposed to mean? The managing authority shall lie to the applicant. That seems completely absurd to me. I understand the reasons that lead to it. I'm being vetted by the police, so I'm going to make a request under the info law to see if I'm being checked, and the police, of course, don't want to tell me completely logically that I'm being vetted because it would disrupt its vital functioning. But instead of addressing the question of "the police will simply not inform the police in such a case," we will say "it will inform in a way that I am not being investigated." It really seems absurd to me in this concept that we say the state is acting contrary to two rights, where it tries to fulfill them in such an absurd way, so the state treats its citizens by telling them false information or information at least misleading. Another problem that is already enshrined in this bill, but I think that we will get to it crucially in the implementing regulation is the question of the state's position as prosecutor. Yesterday, we had a bill here that tried to move the state's attorney's office somewhere. European regulations say: the courts and other judicial authorities have an exclusive position where they do not have to be subject to control by the Office for Personal Data Protection. The control of the Office for Personal Data Protection in the Czech Republic also applied to the state prosecutor's office. As the individual authorities are lobbying powers at the Ministry of the Interior, so there is such a small constitutional shift that we begin to pretend that the state's attorney is not in Section 80, is not part of the executive power, but is some quasi-justice component, and suddenly we say that the courts and the state's attorneys are excluded from their jurisdiction. I think it is a mistake that we certainly do not have to address this issue in the Data Protection Act, that it may sometimes occur that the prosecutor's office is to be moved to another head of the Constitution, that his position is to be something completely different, but I do not understand why it is open to the protection of personal data, why we are trying to make some kind of shift here. I will then propose in the committees that we leave the courts, where I understand, but frankly, it is quite dangerous with the prosecutor's office. The courts are still running their database separately, and there's nothing much focused on there. But why the D.A. should be excluded - not from, of course, the fact that someone crawls into criminal files, but from how they have protection, how personal data protection parameters are set up, who has input, if input is logged, and other things, is, in my opinion, to be supervised by the Office for Personal Data Protection. I will not go through all the partial problems, I will keep that at the committee meeting, but I would mention a few more essential ones. The first is the position of the office as such, where, in turn, we are based on the fact that everything is described in European proceedings, and today we are not even saying that the office is a supervisory authority, we are not saying according to what rules, if this is to be according to the rules of control, I assume that it is, according to which rules it goes. Moreover, I think that all we can do for the citizens of this country in, say, a moderate run-up of GDPR - we cannot reduce fines, those are really set centrally, but we can create a process that will at least initially lead to first trying to manage and correct things, and only then and after a time and after that, when the person who processes personal data behaves in some way in the long term contrary to their protection, sanctions are still taking place. That's the only space I think the regulation gives us. It is not used here at all, and I think we should think about what the position of office is, at what point it is to approach the fine, and at what point it is to approach in the first place to remedy the situation. The second thing I mentioned, and that's the question of the monocratism of the office. I fundamentally disagree with her, I consider her a fundamental, fundamental mistake and a mistake. In a situation where the Office is completely excluded from state power, it will decide almost everything about the protection of personal data, it will still become the European co-decisionor, who will also lay down other implementing rules and interpretations, so to say - and now I completely look away from the persons, I like the former director and consider her to be a highly competent person, I completely look away from the persons - but say that we will go the way of the Monocratic Office, where one person in the area of personal data protection will actually occupy a completely central place in the country, almost unexplorable except for the court, that just seems to me to be a fatal error and, in my opinion, we should think much more about whether we should approach the model of the Supreme Audit Office, if there is not to be any major strengthening of the democratic element at the Office, so that there is at least within the Office for the protection of personal data, there has been some debate, there have been some controversy, there have been some sort of controversy, and not that there will be one person in the whole of the Czech Republic who will have an interpretation in all things combined. Two more points, the last one on this part, then I'll deal with the next one. Authorisation of the Office to access information, § 56, where it is done, and rightly, in accordance with European legislation certain exclusion for advocacy. Unfortunately, it is no longer considered for other protected professions, which are bound by confidentiality towards their clients, whether they are tax advisors, notaries and others. I think that even here, we should think about whether the lockout is sufficient if it applies only to lawyers. And then Section 57, the secrecy of the Office's employees. In addition to being extremely entertained by the fact that the Vice-President and the Bureau's staff are bound by secrecy, but for some reason, the President is not bound. I do not understand there at all, and I have not found in the explanatory memorandum why the President is not bound by secrecy, or if it means that the President can communicate anything to anyone. But I suppose it's just some kind of typist error, or it's based on some kind of regulation that I haven't been able to read properly yet. But, and I consider this to be much more fundamental, the second paragraph states that "the obligation of confidentiality cannot be relied upon against an office, an institution active in criminal proceedings or a court." That is okay, but "in the case of personal data, confidentiality obligations cannot be relied upon even against the data subject'. [[10.30 hours]] I really don't understand what this means. But if it means that whoever turns to the office, then the office can't rely on him for confidentiality, and I'm afraid the interpretation would be like that, then, of course, it's a fatal breach of all those other confidentialitys, because then I'm gonna contact the Office for Personal Data Protection in full peace in this criminal proceedings, and I'm gonna ask if there's something against me, he's gonna find out, and he's gonna have to tell me on the basis of that provision. I'd call that a big break. So I'm done. I think we need to adopt the bill in some form. I think we still have an extraordinary amount of work to do with him. Therefore, I also vetoed the hearing under Section 90. I highly advise against shortening the deadline at all. I would even rather think about whether the time limit for discussion should be extended, and I believe that apart from the constitutional law committee, I believe that other committees will also be proposed to deal with this, because this is really not an easy and easy thing to do, and some things can still be corrected there in my opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u7	I, too, thank the rapporteur. Before we go any further, I have some notes I'd like you to meet. So Mr Pour is apologizing to us from today's meeting at 2:30 p.m. We apologize to Minister Schillerová for business reasons today - all day, apparently. Mr Milan Chovanec apologizes to us from today's meeting day on account of a foreign trip. Mrs Šafránková apologizes to us for the whole negotiation for health reasons and we are sorry by Mr Václav Klaus from 10:45 am to 12:30 pm for working reasons. Before I open up the debate, Mr Michálek has declared himself with priority rights, I do not know whether it was in the debate or before the debate. In a debate with priority rights. In that case, I am opening the debate and calling on Mr Michálek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly summarize some of my positions on this essential document, which follows up on the General Data Protection Regulation. I think we all agree here that the protection of personal data is an important matter, and in this particular case, the problem is the implementation that the government has prepared. The problem is that it is put forward lately, as has already been said here, and basically that it has been put forward lately, it is also pushing us that the resulting law will take effect only a few months after the regulation itself becomes effective. I think it's pretty problematic that we put a lot of people and entrepreneurs in this situation. I was suggesting that the grémia be included at the last meeting. Unfortunately, this proposal did not receive any support. However, we have to deal with it somehow. And I agree with the view that this needs to be discussed properly, because there are indeed two very extensive regulations, the House Press 138 and 139. I think we've all noticed public concerns. It's afraid of journalists, businessmen. Even when we were visiting the highest courts, even the judges of the highest courts are afraid of a general regulation. So the concerns that are there, and I don't want to judge whether they're reasonable or not, so I'm sure we have to deal with them. What raises concern is the rather large catalogue of various supplements, which has joined the proposal, which clearly aims to improve the law on free access to information in the Houses of the Press 139 and which includes exceptions that have emerged from various departments. That means, as part of the commentary procedure, basically every resort added what was bothering him, and it was more like a tool that would castrate a hundred and six, which I don't think is quite a good thing. I think, in some respects, that proposal - and I will now be different from my colleague Benda - does not exactly correspond to reality when it comes to the age limit from which the consent of a young person who uses the Internet is required to sign up for a web service and cannot register there without his legal representative giving him consent. Let me give you my personal example. I'm so-called. I've been on the Internet since I was 9 years old and I can assure you that no such form has ever stopped me between 9 and 15 years old to sign up for some web service - an Internet forum and some similar services. So if we set that line extremely high for some 15 years, all we're doing is creating a law that's very far from reality and not being respected by the general public because it's already considered pointless at first sight. So here I think we should think about whether or not to lower that line to, say, the lower limit that the general regulation says about the 13 years. At least there's a way to justify it. Another problem that we have encountered in this example, which we would like to be able to deal with by the Constitutional Legal Committee, is that sanctions are very little differentiated in the proposal. And it's a matter I've already discussed with the Minister. If we put in a penalty of 10 million, which will apply to all kinds of offences, I think we're actually introducing an endemic, something that isn't in any other proper regulation. When you look into other laws, it is very carefully adjusted for what offences there is a threat of sanctions, to what boundaries, for example from the point of view of scale, severity, etc. Of course, I know that the Office for Personal Data Protection has a methodology that is being followed, and that the sanctions are trying to impose so as not to impose ten million fines for minor offences. But I still think that the task of us legislators is to prepare the adjustment so that, for example, the municipalities do not have to worry and are not in a panic that they will receive a ten-million-dollar fine for some sort of, let's say, a bagatile offense. Of course, in case of serious leaks of personal data, whether they are those in the media space mentioned leaks that are related to Facebook, large social networks, bills leaks, passwords, bank leaks, if they are caused by the negligence of the subject, of course, the high limits are absolutely appropriate, and here we must strictly protect the personal data of the public. I would still like to touch on the issue of competence of the Office for Personal Data Protection, because the proposed proposal in Section 52 actually establishes and defines its scope. The question I want to address is already linked to the rather delicate issue of the conflict of fundamental rights, which was referred to here by the rapporteur, Marek Benda. We have here, for example, the fundamental right to privacy, which is actually a merit of this proposal, and then there are other fundamental rights that are competitive with this right, and we need to look very closely for a balance between these fundamental rights. Specifically, there have been examples of the right to information that may conflict with the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, for example where personal data are provided by certain persons in some cases, if the law on free access to information so provides. I think it is very unfortunate that we have been dealing with the fact that the regulation in the area of the right to information has been completely fragmented, because basically every office interprets it in its own way, then it gets to the administrative courts, which are regional courts at first instance, and we just have a whole range of different legal opinions and it takes very slow for case-law or opinions to unite on an area, and then there are personal data defenders and those who advocate that data should be provided. We had a case here where the Supreme Administrative Court ruled or gave some opinion on the provision of salary data, subsequently responded to it by the Office for Personal Data Protection, Ministry of the Interior, then again came up with another opinion of the Constitutional Court. I think that in the case of the delicate question, the conflict of fundamental rights would be the easiest thing to do if just one office were to deal with it. We already have this office, it's the Office for Personal Data Protection, so let's think about whether it would be more appropriate to entrust it with the issue of, say, methodological guidance, some supervision in the area of information provision, so that the collisions are resolved ideally already at this office, and that office promotes its legal opinion with the same weight in the entire state administration. [[10.40 hours]] So, in this respect, I plan to propose an amendment which will extend § 52, which establishes the competence of the Office for Personal Data Protection in order to address the issue of conflict of data protection rights and the right to information, so as to ensure that the right to information is effectively enforceable, so that the Office adheres to the case law of the administrative courts and that the law will fulfil its purpose at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u9	Thank you, too. At this point, I don't have any more priority rights here, so we're going to follow the application procedure normally. This means, please, Mrs Věra Kovářová, and Mr Jiří Valenta will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is difficult to speak up after the rapporteur, Mr Benda, because he has already mentioned a number of the problems that I have wanted to talk about. Therefore, I will mention only two points on which I would like to comment on this House's press. The government knew for two years that the general regulation would start to apply 25. 5. Unfortunately, the draft law on the processing of personal data is only now being submitted to the House. It was said from the rapporteur's mouth that some part of the blame falls on the previous Minister of the Interior. Given the rush of the matter, I was surprised that this point was not included last week. As Chairman Michálek said, he proposed his inclusion, so we have proposed to the grémia the inclusion of us as a club of mayors and independents today. I'm glad we can comment on that point today. What caused the delay of the Personal Data Processing Act? First of all, it caused panic among the municipalities. Above all, it was fear of huge fines that would roll into the municipalities. It is therefore necessary to ask why Austrian authorities differ from those of the Czechs, that in their case it was possible to use the mitigation in the case of fines granted to municipalities offered by the GDPR Regulation? That's a question I'd like to know the answer to. Something similar could have happened in our country. The association of local authorities negotiated with Minister Metnar that the fines at the municipality would be mitigated. As far as I know, this proposal was also directed at the government, but unfortunately, the government did not accept this proposal for reasons that are not quite clear to me, and I would like the Minister to comment on this. Whatever the reasons, I personally believe that municipalities which process personal data mostly for the purpose of governance and not for profit as private companies should be excluded from the general scheme for this reason. This is certainly true of the municipalities for which laymen's participation is typical. It is certainly possible to discuss whether the fines are to be zero or only moderated. But I think the same regime for the same subjects is clearly wrong. And they probably thought so in Brussels, too, when they made this exception possible in the GDPR regulation. This means that each state can adjust the amount of fines for self-government. The Rakušan took advantage of this, and according to my information, similar considerations are being made in Ireland or Sweden. I ask, then, why do we have to be so strict in the Czech Republic when European legislation does not even ask us to do so? It's a rhetorical question, but I'd like to hear the answer. And I will join you, colleagues and colleagues, with a request to the Minister. Please consider whether, in the case of self-government, we would also not allow an exemption for fines. For this reason, I have prepared an amendment which, for your information, I have already put into the system. There are two variants. One option concerns the Austrian model, which says that the authorities are not subject to fines. The second option imposes a fine, but much lower. I would like you to take a look at the amendment in this case, which, of course, will be discussed at the next stage of the negotiations on this press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u11	Thank you, too. Before Mr. Valenta gets the floor, I have a note here. Mr Feri apologizes to us between 10.30 and 1 pm for working reasons. And now, I beg the floor of Mr. Jiří Valenta, if there is... [[He's looking around.]] I don't suppose there's...? Jiří Valenta.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u12	I'm sorry, I didn't hear. So thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many have fallen here. I will try not to repeat this, but nevertheless, in connection with the adoption of this law, we need to answer a few fundamental questions. One. Does GDPR bring any major problems for the Czech Republic? The answer is: It certainly will. Yes, he will bear the problems, and he is already carrying them, and that is considerable. And one of these problems will certainly be the one that is currently inconspicuous to chaotic state, to say the least, in this respect caused, and that is the lack of a national implementing regulation that we are now trying to re-create with a hot needle. However, since the Union's GDPR directive, and it has already fallen, will apply from the end of May this year, namely from 25 May, it can only be sadly stated that such an entirely necessary implementing regulation should have been here about a year ago. Thanks to the incomprehensible lax approach of the previous government coalition of ČSSD, YES, KDU-ČSL, and not only in this area, companies, but also individuals who will be hard hit by new obligations, are likely to go crazy. The GDPR directive is sometimes referred to as the so-called hidden directive. This means that it provides Member States with some scope to establish their own rules by means of laws or by means of sub-laws. And the time for such national adjustments and adaptation to about 50 points - Mr Benda here spoke of several of these points, those points are about 50 points, which the GDPR Directive gives to Member States, in this case, for example, the revision of information systems or the procedure for handling personal data - has been since April 2016. You hear me well. It's another sad outcome of Sobotkův's work. Again, I note that coalition governments, i.e. that there was a strong word for the YES movement, but priorities were probably different. A certain advantage, namely an advantage in quotation marks, or perhaps a last chance, to cope with the negative effects of the legislation which is not yet missing, which cannot be rushed on the other hand, is contained in the regulation itself, which uses the conditional method of'should be'. According to some experts, the problem is that the preamble, and that is the difference from our laws, contains so-called recitals that support interpretation, for which the explanatory statement is used in our countries in particular. And since the conditional conceals possible levels of interpretations, speculation on what is really an obligation and what is just a recommendation whose non-compliance may not be sanctioned, and therefore a certain benevolence of our authorities can reasonably be assumed, at least in this respect I hope. [[10.50 hours]] The second question I would like to ask myself in this context. Why didn't Commissioner Jourová warn or warn about this Czech disability in the delay of national legislation? Mrs Věra Jourová, who was previously, as you know, the ministerial nominee of the ANO movement, has probably already completely succumbed to the centralist pressure of Brussels bureaucratic structures, especially the unelected ones. Not only does it fully support this paranoidly all-embracing directive, although with the godly basis for protecting digital rights, but it even publicly condemns - and I quote now - abnormal and hysterical reactions from people and companies from the Czech Republic, which lead to further deterioration of the image of the European Union in the eyes of the Czech public... Well, that's a really pro-Czech attitude! At the end of February, for example. It declared that GDPR will fall mainly to firms with employees above 250, which is now proven to be an obvious lie, because the directive will end up with almost everyone who manipulates personal data in some way, and it is no matter whether it is the data of employees, customers, patients, pupils or e.g. clients. Was designing and putting GDPR into life really necessary? This is a rather complex question, and I personally believe that, in a sense, yes, for example. in connection with the necessary limitation of the interference of certain Internet or other communication technologies undertaking entities into the personal rights of each of us, whether for example. it is an illegal check of e-mail correspondence, sublimely served and individually directed advertising or monitoring of places where we are located etc. etc. On the Internet in particular, citizens' personal and sensitive data have often been used with impunity for the benefit of certain entities, both economic and political. However, with regard to the scope and scope of GDPR itself, I find it highly oversized and, in its consequences, it will be counterproductive for the quality of human life in our country. It's pointless to e.g. on the school website, possibly. the school bulletin board had to have permission from the parents of each of these pupils to publish photos of the group of pupils. And we could find much more of this monstrosity in this directive. The last sigh - and quite essential. And there's been a bit of a fall, too. A colleague named Benda suggested it. The main controller in our field of data protection has so far been the Office for Personal Data Protection and it should continue to be involved in this way in the future. On the one hand, he will receive an increase in powers, on the other hand, he will already be partly subordinate to the European Data Protection Board, EDPB. In practice, this will mean that, in the event of disagreement with the decision of our office, this umbrella body will have the final say. So even here, you can see how creepy, but all the more consistent and uncompromising is the process of freeing national sovereignty from the often dysfunctional European moloch under the dictation of economically strongest countries. On this basis, cooperation in the European Union, or, by extension, throughout Europe, at least in my opinion, should not work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u13	I, too, thank you, and now I am asking Mr Výborný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u14	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to begin with a more general remark on the concerns that arise here. Yes, it will indeed be next week, if I'm not mistaken, two years when the European regulation began to apply. Since then, the Ministry of the Interior, by the way, the government has not been able to produce the appropriate law and we are given it in a situation where, on the contrary, in a month or a month or a piece, on 25 May, we have an obligation to comply with the European regulation. On the other hand, if we look at other countries of the European Union, according to the information I have, a third of the countries are still much worse off with the implementation of the European regulation than the Czech Republic, about a third of the countries are as we are, i.e. there is implementation and adoption of national legislation, and only about a third of the countries are ready to start fully operating in the European regulation session on 25 May. This is just a situation where we certainly are not somewhere on the brink of this between the countries of the European Union. A colleague recently visited France and asked several mayors in France if they knew anything about GDPR and looked at it completely unsuspectingly. On the other hand, I don't want to make light of the fact that if we're to do something, we should approach it carelessly. On the other hand, we are joining the KDU-ČSL club for what has already been said here - the legislation is so fundamental and so complex and complicated that it should certainly not be discussed in the regime of § 90. Perhaps it is really worth considering whether we should not extend the time limits to adopt a real standard that will be consistent with all other constitutional protected rights and interests of citizens. So much for a general remark. As far as the specific content of this proposal is concerned, the rapporteur has already said the essential things here in detail. I don't want to prolong time and things here. I would comment on one thing, and in fact, it has been heard here since my colleague Kovářová. If you're talking to the mayors today, they're resonating two things, two problems that are bothering them. It is the regulation of GDPR and then also the conflict of interest discussed here. The sanctions that are currently being put forward, the 10 million, in a situation where, indeed - and here, I dare quote the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 of the European Regulation - each Member State may lay down rules on whether and to what extent administrative fines may be imposed on public authorities and public bodies established in that Member State. It is therefore really important to consider whether we should not discuss, in this sense, either a reduction or a complete abolition of these sanctions for these public bodies. On the one hand, not only does this allow us to do so by a European regulation, but this model also works in a number of other states, including Austria. And there's another reason he didn't come forward and I'd like to point out. A so-called institute was created here. Officer. In addition to the fact that this is a very good business for those who are engaged in this, it is precisely the Institute of Deputies that should guarantee that European regulations will be implemented by public bodies in accordance with the law. The Institute of Deputies was put there by the European legislature precisely so that there could be an institute of reduction or total abolition of sanctions towards public bodies. It would therefore be appropriate to actually open and discuss this matter. As a KDU-ČSL club, we also submitted an amendment to Act 101, which was discussed today with the government's negative opinion. It is simply not true what Minister Pelikán said at the press conference that we would go against the regulation. Of course, this regulation, as I quoted here, makes it possible. And the reason we're doing this, I've already said here. Of course, at the moment that the leader is dead, because he will be replaced by this new legislation, the way in the amendments is opened to address this issue in the new legislation that we are discussing here. Other matters concerning the conflict of privacy rights, on the contrary, rights to information, have been mentioned here, and we are very much inclined to have a really well-founded debate before second reading within committees, where these things should be discussed in detail, even perhaps with the participation of the professional public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u15	Thank you, too. Before I ask another speaker, I have a note here. Mr Radim Fiala apologizes to us for business reasons within 14 hours. And now, please, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to allow myself to be a little bit longer, because I will also be in a double role here as rapporteur for the petition committee that has been assigned this law. I have to say, in the first case, we're definitely going to join the veto in the '90s, because we think that this law is unfortunately in the state that we are unable to accept it today. [[11.00 hours]] Now in detail about the things that are in that law, and I will be happy to have those who have formed this law prepared to respond to the suggestions, or make comments on the comments, and will be willing to explain these comments to us during the committee hearing. First of all, I want to say that it is interesting, and I recommend that you all get acquainted with the analysis that is part of this law, the law itself is not very comprehensive, but the analysis is, and when you read the analysis, you will find that the settlement of the comments that are there is, in my opinion, one motive, that is to satisfy almost everyone and get it into a state of acceptance. This, in my opinion, led the petitioner into a trap of his own concessions and introduced into this proposal a matter which precludes one another or is not clarified at all. [[There's a huge constant noise in the room.]] As has already been said here, it begins with Section 6 in the proposal, these are the exceptions to the obligation to assess the compatibility of the data, when I have just made a comment here... For example, the enforcement of private claims and the like, which is written here, would require an explanation of what it will actually involve as a result, because the concept of "private rights" is actually all-hugging and makes a problem in my opinion. Paragraph 11 limits certain rights and obligations. Here I want to draw your attention to one problem that I consider to be very important and which is intersecting with the whole law. I miss absolutely naming one phenomenon of data collection, and that's political parties and movements. Personally, I think, and in that spirit, I would appeal to you and, if necessary, within the framework of the amendments to this law, the approach of political parties and the movement to the protection of personal data is. When you realize, and we are all members of a political party or movement, what it means in practice, how many records we have, and now I'm not talking about the central register of members, I'm talking about the registration of basic organizations, I'm talking about records at different levels of political parties and movements, so we're going to find that they're a plethora of data, and if you look at the right to forget what's in here, I'm not really convinced how we're able to do that in a political party. When a member comes, the year will be a member of your party, and then he will say "I perform," which happens commonly, and he will add "and I have the right to be forgotten." Here in this law, there's talk of you being able to do it by marking. Now the question is, how do you label the election posters that are somewhere? Can he be affected if there's a poster somewhere that this guy's still on because he was a member, but he has the right to be forgotten, and you can get a huge penalty? Who's gonna check it out? Or how will it be realized in practice? Therefore, I would very much advocate that the self-instigator should be included in the exceptions of the political party and the movement, especially when he is allowed to do so in the regulation, because that is where public interest can be taken into account. And I think that merging in political parties and movements is precisely the public interest that should be protected, in other words, political parties and movements should be given an implicit exemption right here from this law. [[Enduring noise in the hall.]] The other thing that concerns and which will probably provoke a debate is part two - the processing of personal data carried out for journalistic purposes or for academic, artistic or literary purposes. Here I want to point out that the promoter has made his job easier. He knew that he would have to take into account, and it has already been said here, two constitutional rights against each other, so he solved it by saying: nice union of authors, nice representatives of these organizations, there is a directive, write an exception. He admits in the text that part two is actually the creation of the very ones he was supposed to touch. And the result here is that they have an absolute exemption from some obligation to an authority to check that personal data are respected. I have nothing against it - data protection, resources, etc. But if you look at the scope of the permission to collect data, it's absolutely all the data that's specifically protected by the laws of genetic information, from gender, I don't know, from anything possible, they have an exception. They don't even have to tell the Bureau that they're collecting and doing something like this. They say that's the right to data protection, especially journalists have that possibility here. I wouldn't go that far if I were sure, and the law doesn't even remember how it is with protecting a journalist from his employer. He doesn't count on it at all. He says yes, a journalist has the right to publish his articles and collect information, collect these data. It doesn't have to state the author, it can protect the resources, it provides all of this law. But he's an employee. The journalist records the data on some kind of tech footage, which usually means on his laptop. But that laptop is already owned by the editor. When a journalist leaves the newsroom, and the fluctuating in journalists is also big, where does the data end? Will they stay available on the news servers? And how will he continue to deal with them? This area here isn't solved at all. And in my opinion, the data that the journalist will take, of course, because it's his, he's collected, he's acquired, it's being repeatedly placed somewhere, but it's also subject to protection. But it should no longer be subject to that protection because it is no longer related to direct performance protected by the Constitution that the journalist has the right to keep an eye on the data. In other words, we get into the fact that there will be institutions, media houses, when I call it in a broad sense, which will have huge databases, historically collected, which individual journalists who have ever worked for them collect, but absolutely without control and can continue to use. So here I would recommend that this law be changed in this spirit and freedom remains on those individuals. Yes, you're a journalist, you have freedom here, but not your employer, who collects the data, should have that obligation when the journalist doesn't work for him, or he should be able to secure it, and the office should check that the data that a particular journalist collects for his work has been erased. This is an unsolved area in this law, and I consider it quite a serious matter in the context of exceptions. I've already talked about deletion. And Article 27 (3) states: "Instead of correcting or deleting personal data, the managing authority may limit the processing of personal data by their specific designation.' This is the option that I have spoken to political parties that you should be able to label in some database. But you can't secure it. The political party is unable to ensure that the data is updated by a political party representative or anyone who collects such data in a city. I would therefore recommend that it be added to this point "if technically possible', that there be an exception that the one who has the data and has an obligation to mark or delete the data had an obligation to do so if it is technically able to do so. When he proves that he was technically capable of doing so, of course he falls under the sanctions of the Office, but he may not be able to do so at all in the available technology and development of the company in order to avoid any database in which those people would have been, and on that basis they could have been sanctioned. And what I'm saying at all is that such databases could be created on purpose so that later they can be abused against the person who created them. [[11.10 hours]] There is no talk of the problems that this will cause between the associations, the collective activity. And there's no talk of those that will trigger it in the community of owners. It's a specific entity, it's a specific entity of the law, a community of homeowners who have quite a lot of problems with this. Because they are collectors of data about their members, tenants, and they are subject to this law in full hardness. But the data they collect are not able to treat, because in this community they are all equal, they are not bound by any internal regulations that would justify editing these databases and managing them. Paragraph 34 refers to automated recording. Here I would recommend, and it's not mentioned here at all, there's talk of technology, but there's no talk of the software that this data is being processed. Here I want to point out that this is one of the biggest data storage problems that data generated in some software program system may not be readable in ten years. Because the software will cease to exist, it will not evolve and you will not be able to open the file. And he exists, physically the data is, and you're able to access it somehow, process the data, but you're not able to process it because the software doesn't exist. So the obligation here should be enshrined for those who have this obligation under this law, so that even the software that was needed to do so should observe, if it is to be used at all, that the data should be available as it is spoken here in this law. Other matter in Section 39, reporting breaches of the Office's personal data security. If you've noticed, and if you're watching daily newspapers with a technical theme on a regular basis, it's one of the biggest problems of the day, data leaks. We're talking about a 72-hour deadline until the one who processes this data is obliged to notify the security breach. I would have this time limit shortened to consider, because 72 hours after you find that there has been a massive or any data leak, and report to the Authority that such a leak has occurred, I consider it a fairly significant period of time when it is possible to prevent the leak of this data, if any. take precautions. If that office doesn't know for 72 hours, it'll actually have nothing more to do than issue a fine. The question of Section 54 is international cooperation. One of the purposes of this law is that there will be an area for free movement of data in the European Union. In other words, he and the law are designed to have uniform data, and it should not be a problem within the European Union to migrate those data. It is heading towards multinational companies operating in the European space, the European market that collect these data. And it's probably clear to us that if you register somewhere on some Czech business website and he accidentally expands and works in European space, it doesn't have to change, it will be constantly and freely available in Europe. It's got a second plane, too. These data are to be accessible throughout Europe under this law. In other words, not only security files, etc., although this may already be seen as interference, in other words, that we lose as the Czech Republic have the possibility of personal data protection of our users. And we have witnessed this at the time of the activities of terrorist attacks, when various states demanded access to data in the fight against terrorism, and now I am talking, for example, about air transport, who is coming on board, etc., when the European Court of Justice rejected, for example, the general disclosure of such information between the United States and the European Union, called for concrete approaches. This law allows free access on request without any further control and the office is obliged to disclose this data under this law. If we do not want to enter into this law so much, the minimum we should put in it is that it is necessary to keep a record in this international cooperation. She's not here at all. The record of someone asking for the data and we handed it over. This record is not implicit here at all, and I think it is quite important that we know, as part of the control, how far our data travels around the world. Not only within the European Union, but also in general throughout the world. It might as well be part of Section 55, the Office's annual report, where information on who should be reported to whom all this office, which is responsible for doing so, should appear. It could be an inventory table, it could be anything, I don't expect it to be a fascinating book animal, but at least an obligation to record to whom the office has communicated this data should appear. In consideration, and now I am heading to the Constitutional Legal Committee, it is also to consider whether such provision of personal data by this Office under this Act should be entirely in the benefit of the Office, if it should not be subject to a court order. If it shouldn't get there, yes, we are, and we will provide data on international aid, this data, but if it shouldn't be subject to a court order. Because the person who requests must submit to a judicial institution why it requires this data to be shared internationally by our citizens, and on this basis, the office should issue it. But I say, here I would rather leave this passage or consideration to a constitutional committee that could comment on it. What bothers me or what I would require as an explanation is how duplicate data are treated within the European Union. It is quite logical that when you run some databases and they have scope throughout the European Union, duplicate databases of the same kind will be created. Maximum time shifted or time-adjusted, for example. But this law doesn't treat such duplicate databases that are somewhere at some point in time. Whether it applies to them or how far it applies or solves duplicate databases. In that law and, above all, in the explanatory part, it refers to the fact that it distinguishes groups which are or are not under a certain obligation to that law according to the scope of the data. What criterion was selected as the range of data? How much data is the one that entitles it to be subject to the law or not? So at least some should be processed, I don't want to say methodology, but at least a list of what we consider to be a significant or large range of data, which we certainly do, and we can argue about the rest of it, how much protection under this law is large. It is said here in the explanatory statement that this law lacks corruption risks. In other words, in the assessment of this law, it is said that it does not have corruption risks. On the contrary, I think he has enormous corruption risks. And now that I look away from the system of corruption of technology companies, which, of course, is already happening today without the law, they cram into every municipal office and offer their services everywhere, and the corruption risk here is huge, let's say, because those contracts are usually conditional and they go under the public procurement law, so the corruption risk here is huge and caused by this law, so I'm going to talk about suppliers of technology equipment. Because in that law, there is an obligation to use the most advanced technology available to secure it. In other words, since this field is a field that is dynamically evolving, every year new and new technologies in network security, communications security, logically means that all those who want to comply with the diction of this law, as it is written, will have to renew their technology park every year, perhaps at shorter time intervals. You can imagine the costs that are going to fall on those under this law here to be able to meet the state-of-the-art technological solutions required by this law. These are the comments that I briefly make about this law, because, of course, I have more specific comments, although I think that the ones I have put here are the most basic ones that I consider to be problematic to this law. And I confess, I am unable to say right now if we are able to discuss this law in due course. Anyway, here's why I told you in the '90s. [[unintelligible]] But I recommend to the Guarantee Committee of Constitutional Law that, in time, if it finds that it is unable to deal with this in the given term, it asks for a shift because I think that the law will really be so complex and so interfere with the Czech rule of law and interfere mainly with those concerned, that we are now almost all of us who, in some form, have ever created a database and do not want to use it for personal use, it is also another definition that the use for personal use and what else is and what is not a personal need - when you are already creating a database, so you are probably doing it with some purpose, and that goal is almost never personal, but to some ease your work - it will actually touch almost all citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention, I hope that I did not tire you too much and I firmly believe that we will look into my comments in detail in the next reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u17	I also thank you, and now I am asking Mr Bláha. It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u18	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will be short for a change compared to the speaker. I just want to explain to all of you what has already been said here. One of the things why some countries, France, know absolutely nothing about this, the entrepreneurs or those people there, so some EU countries do not need to introduce GDPR for one simple reason that they either have tougher or the same national control mechanisms that this GDPR is based on. I'd just sum things up. I think that everything has either been said or said here, and I would just like to agree briefly together on a recommendation resolution for the various committees that will want to deal with it. We inherited from the previous government and slept mainly by representatives of the Czech Republic in the EU. There was a heated discussion here across committees, Members, citizens, business councils, for example. Yesterday, by individual unions, associations, associations. Dear colleagues, we have a unique chance to show that the words and statements promised in the election campaign across all sides - and I would like to point out this because yesterday, when we were talking about the war here, you were all slowly here, today when it comes to our people, so here we are empty, so we are showing the citizens exactly what we are trying to do. So the statements promised in the election campaign across the parties want to change into actions, and I therefore propose for the committees recommending a resolution. Recommending individual committees should read as follows: The Chamber of Deputies obliges all ministers to oversee the implementation of the law and recommend to all ministries, authorities, institutions, that the administration, in turn, the official change from the official strictly requiring and punishing the official who advises, helps, recommends and supports, and only after a thorough analysis of all the impacts and repeated errors strictly requires and takes appropriate action. We will certainly find an even better interpretation of the resolution across all committees, which together will help to mitigate the effects of GDPR in putting into practice. So I would just like us to really agree and recommend to all ministers that individual officials within their offices treat us to citizens, institutions, individual entrepreneurs, but mainly businessmen as carefully as possible to help them get into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Benda wants to respond with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u20	I very much appreciate your proposal by Mr Bláha. I just point out that no other office, other than the Office for Personal Data Protection, has anything to do with the implementation of GDPR. This means, if this thesis sounds, I understand it and I agree with it more or less, but we must put in this bill the relevant provisions concerning the Office for Personal Data Protection, which will just prescribe to them that they must advise them first and then follow the general regulation for sanctions. No one else in the state will have anything to do with this. So this is our mission. Not a task for ministers, not a task for other committees, but it is our task to put such wording into this bill when it comes to exercising the powers of the Office for Personal Data Protection, in order to prevent sanctions from first explaining to them how it should be done, and that it will first try to bring the matter to the right level, and only then, if necessary, will they penalize someone. But otherwise, I agree with you in a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u21	Thank you. I now have here, with Mr Bláha's factual remark. Please. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u22	I'm totally okay with it, I think we're all gonna be OK with it, and that's why I said we should pull together in this case so we can all do it with a clear mind and a heart, so we don't make a mess of it and help in the implementation. I believe that all of us who are here are concerned that it will burden us all as little as possible and that it will affect us as little as possible, and I will be very happy when we all meet on one platform and we will discuss this together to help the Minister or the relevant officials to move this forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u23	I, too, thank you, and now Vice-President Okamura has given me priority rights. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that we do not agree with this European Union regulation on the processing of personal data, because it is extremely bureaucratic, complicated and, above all, ambiguous, so it will do more harm than good in practice. Of course, I agree that the protection of our data should now be a priority. This is also seen in the current case around Facebook, when the interview of Marek Zuckerberg in front of the US senators confirmed that Facebook monitors users across devices, even if the Facebook user is logged out, which most users do not realize at all. According to Zuckerberg Facebook, it monitors users' movements on the website for reasons both in safety quotes and for advertising purposes. An increased control of those who hold our data is therefore essential. As regards the European Union proposal that we are discussing here today, according to legal analyses - I quote: there is a risk that the GDPR interpretation will hang in the vacuum even after its effectiveness and will be interpreted primarily by lawyers and private advisors, for whom the so-called arrival of the so-called. GDPR has created a very lucrative market. The instructions of European or national authorities in the form of clear guidelines on how problematic GDPR provisions are to be interpreted are still missing in many cases. End of citation of legal analysis. GDPR obliges administrators to produce so-called records of processing activities. However, an exception to this obligation is unclear, which applies under the text of the Regulation to an undertaking or organisation employing less than 250 persons, unless the processing it carries out is likely to pose a risk to the rights and freedoms of entities, the processing is not occasional or involves the processing of sensitive data. According to the interpretation of the Czech Office for Personal Data Protection, the absolute majority of personal data processing cases are not occasional. In such a case, will the processing records have to be drawn up by all bodies carrying out the occasional processing of personal data, i.e. almost all of them? What would be the significance of such an exception? On the contrary, when we look at Western Europe, according to the Belgian Privacy Authority, it is precisely the opposite, namely that the normal processing of customer data, employees, suppliers, etc. is considered to be occasional processing. This contradiction of interpretation in practice means that there is a threat not only to litigation but also to international arbitration, all the more so when it imposes gigantic monetary penalties on failure to comply with this regulation. [[11.30 hours]] Let me show you some more nonsense. In relation to the use of information technology by children GDPR introduces an obligation under which consent to the processing of minors, mostly under 16 years of age, will have to be provided with the consent of their parents or legal representatives. And how do you know that when you onlinely express consent to the processing of personal data behind a computer, a minor child sat and agreed to the processing of personal data really gave consent to their parents? Of course, sanctions are the most discussed issue. In view of the chaoticness and confusion of the law, fines really threaten almost everyone, even for bureaucratic formalities that threaten no one. It would be good at least to guarantee municipalities and companies that sanctions will not be draconian, and for municipalities they should be abolished or minimized to the maximum. We all know how hard it is to get high-quality mayors for candidates. This law is another reason for decent people not to care about public matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u25	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u26	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say a few brief information about our position on this bill. In general, when I start with what has also been said many times here, I think it is really very trivial that only two years after we know what this regulation sounds like and we know how it affects Czech citizens, the law in the House is still under discussion. After all, I have intersected on this subject both Prime Minister Babiš and Minister Metnar in January of this year. That's when Mr. Babiš promised me, or he replied that by mid-February, there would be a law in the government. It didn't really happen until March 21st, so even if the promise was made, let's just say it wasn't kept at least. So we are only now in April 2018 standing before the fact that, from May or the end of May, we are starting to have a European regulation, but we are only now discussing how it will turn out in our legislation. And, of course, the law, by luckily not being discussed in the '90s, which I think is very reasonable, given the fact that we hear individual criticisms from many sides, will only apply later than the regulation itself, and I fear it will only be confusing and bring a whole series of problems. What I also blamed both of the interpelees at the time was lack of information, respectively. the fact that, while I understand that between the last election period and the present, people in ministerial posts were to be replaced, so last year, an information campaign should certainly have taken place in the last election period, with regard to companies, non-profit organizations, schools, but also other institutions and organizations, let's say, awareness campaigns, because when you remember how the campaign was going, for example, to implement electronic sales records, and that it was certainly not a small and inexpensive matter then and it fell on a much smaller scale of society, this time you can really talk about neglect. A number of specific complaints have already been mentioned by the rapporteur. So I do not want to repeat everything, I agree with many of it, and I do agree with the fact that we must protect our data, that the data of our citizens are one of the highly valued and commercial items, that it is a matter that really concerns everyone, and that all trends must be followed and that we must be able to protect the data. We see this also in specific cases, which are now very discussed in public space. On this point, I would just like to point out that Mark Zuckerberg himself mentioned the GDPR regulation as a model for the United States of America several times when he mentioned the case with Cambridge Analytica and Facebook data. So in this case, we do not have to be ashamed of what the EU brings, because if it is a model for other countries, it will be so serious. Worse is how it will end up in our legal order and how we are able to cope with some things in which we have a free hand, where we can grant exceptions, where we can make use of the exceptions. I'm afraid that any change is always the biggest problem for the small ones, whether they are small, smaller companies, or associations, nonprofit organizations. And I think that in the next discussion, we should focus on those who are little knowledgeable in this area and for whom these rules are more complex, so that they do not face great sanctions, but that they are able to comply with the rules and, at the same time, fines do not become liquidation. There is certainly a big difference not only in the size of companies, but also in what they are moving in, in which area they are operating, so the difference is certainly not only by size, but perhaps also in this area we should see it on another dividing line, and how much they are working with the data, to what extent they have to process it. When I look at the beginnings of Facebook, it certainly wasn't a big company and it was just a small start-up, and yet with a wide range of data of its users it operates, respectively. He could have been in surgery by then. And I'm sure you can't say the same thing about anybody else in start-up quotes, if someone starts or starts a candy store in a smaller town, I'm sure you can't talk about the exact same case. So in this respect, we should probably try to look for the dividing line, even for sanctions, not where we're talking about the size of companies, but the amount of data they process. That's one point. Another point concerns what has also been mentioned here by previous speakers, and this is Section 7, which therefore concerns the child's eligibility for consent to the processing of personal data. Here we are, I think, unnecessarily, or the government in this case has unnecessarily set a limit for 15 years, even if it can use a lower one, given that it is really very difficult for some of the consents to verify whether it was actually given to him by the parent of the child. Here I do not question at all that these risks are significant, especially for this group of users, for the youngest, but it is important, in my opinion, that we focus on preventing at all the prevention of how children and young people deal with the data, how they approach the sharing of information in themselves, and not simply to rely on the fact that if we set a limit, it is all-savory. As far as Mr Bláha's previous speaker and his request for ministries are concerned, I would take it a little differently than my colleague, but there is a certain basic point that can be agreed with him, because these measures affect a number of not only the often mentioned companies and municipalities and associations, but perhaps the schools, so it would certainly be worth knowing how the Ministry is helping, and not only in connection with the current standard, but also in connection with the fact that the regulation will apply from May onwards, as it has been able to help, for example, schools or school directors to cope with this issue, because I hear especially from smaller ones who do not have the opportunity to pay someone, some specialized assistance, so that it is a very difficult situation for them. So, for example, on this issue, I think that it would be worth mentioning the ministers as well. And here I am setting an example for the Ministry of Education, but ministers who should comment on this from the perspective of their agenda, which they manage, and from the point of view of the organisations that fall under them, would certainly be much more. So I would certainly consider it appropriate not so much in relation to the law that we are discussing right now, as with the fact that the regulation will fall on them from May onwards, and we should probably know what will then happen in this area so that we do not read in the headlines from 26 May that somewhere we are experiencing a bigger problem than we could possibly have, virtually. What could have been prevented. [[11.40 hours]] So many notes on the current standard. I am glad that we are doing this very well here and that it does not happen here that it is being attacked through the GDPR regulation of the European Union as the source of all evil. I think I was pleasantly surprised. So thank you for that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u27	Thank you, too. I now have here, with Mr Bláha's factual remark. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that I am hearing that we should deal with schools and individual communities, villages and authorities over and over again. But I don't hear one important thing. In the Republic we have 1,200 companies, of which about 900,000 small and medium-sized companies do it for business. They're employing a larger proportion of our population, which means about 60 to 70 percent of the people, and we have 3,500 trade certificates here. And they're all coming in contact with the data. And these people don't have the education that those teachers or school directors have, and they're the worst at it because they don't know it at all. If, yesterday at the Business Council, the various ministries were unable to agree on this, how should the individual tradesmen behave? That's what I need to say. And we have to help them. Because they guarantee us that the villages, the individual small towns, will develop. They do employment there, they do culture there, and they do life there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u29	Well, thank you, too. And now, with proper application, please, Mr Jiránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to correct my colleague Bláha through you. It wasn't thousands of businessmen, it was millions. Well, that's just for support, 'cause there was a slight mistake. I want to talk about a little something else. Its regulation, thoughtfulness and functionality are just as important for every law as society perceives it. And the fact that even previous speakers have been told here, and I agree that GDPR is a useful and meaningful thing, unfortunately, the vast majority of people who come into contact with it are more frightened, disgusted and annoyed. And that's wrong from my point of view. GDPR is useful, although I can say that as far as small companies, small municipalities, maybe it is a little too strict. But it's certainly useful from the point of view of how it should affect data management especially for large ones. It's visible now at Cambridge Analytica, the confession of the firm, which I think on Channel 4, even admitted that it influenced the election in our country, or that it affected the election in our country. That's where the point is. I acknowledge that for us, for the Čech, the transition to GDPR and to all the data protection obligations is far more demanding than for Němec who have worked in this for a long time. We're more phlegmistic about this than we're dealing with it, and this change will, of course, be far more fundamental to us because we're starting at a lower position. And yet we know that the big data, the big players on the market, they actually have business based on the data. So moved on, based on GDPR is correct and the goal is meaningful. Unfortunately, no one here thinks so. Or almost nobody here thinks so. In fact, we've known for three years that GDPR will come, that we should prepare for this. But unfortunately, I can rightly criticize, for example, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, that there really is not much to do for the small entrepreneurs, as Mr Bláha said here. In fact, in February, we invited the MIT to start working on case studies that will explain the very small ones who have harder access to information, simple and clear examples of how GDPR will touch them and what they should focus on in preparing for them. I can commend the Office for Personal Data Protection, which, although of course, is much smaller and has much smaller capacities, so at least from the way we follow it, it does what it can. Even the homeland that got, like, a punishment for this agenda, and that's how it's dealt with when it's no longer excellent, so at least determined, and the job behind it is to see it. So I'm not going to discuss who's responsible for what and who hasn't done what, especially when the minister, as has already been said, has been here for a few months. The only thing that businessmen actually take from all the preparations to get into the GDPR is that fear. Fear of large fines, fear of failure to do something, comes an official who, of course, will give him some kind of liquidation ticket. I've been talking to hundreds of entrepreneurs in the last six months because I've actually been doing my whole practice with entrepreneurs, and that's how they feel. Of course, we can say here that we know that we're going to push the OOOZ in some way, or we're going to give it to the law that the sanctions aren't going to start with liquidation and that we're going to recommend it. But we know that, maybe the officials know, but of course the citizen doesn't know, and he doesn't have a place to find out. Here, and because of that fear, of course, those often overpriced consulting firms are doing very well, which not only create the fear and the horror, but also use their business to do it. I think according to various calculations that at least hundreds of millions of crowns were spent by small, medium and large companies for various trainings and audits. And that, of course, doesn't count the thousands and thousands of human hours when companies put their employees on it to do it. and so on and so forth. So almost all the people in the state in which GDPR is involved in some way and they perceive that it is coming, they are afraid, they are disgusted, they are frustrated both with wasted money and fear of potential future fines. We politicians, and I'm saying that since we're new here as pirát, we could actually represent the GDPR positively for the last two years. We could show the benefits, the benefits that GDPR would have. We were able to educate both companies and organizations. We could have shown the benefits to all citizens and, more importantly, to do the education of why we need to take care of the personal data. And primarily to prevent citizens from being manipulated or abused by their data. But we simply wasted that option. Now there is a clear impression of fear among people and dislike of GDPR. And yet it is a positive thing that we have been able to promote, promote, present in the long run. So now that we're gonna modify the law so that it's not so harsh, I hope it turns out that we can arrange it, that's unfortunately the other thing. We were supposed to do the first thing, and that's a positive presentation of the law. It's when I say it completely simplisticly so that those companies actually... they didn't really look forward to it, but they were positively preparing for some new setup, they set it up one day, and then it's going to go on and it's going to be quiet and it has its benefits. I'm afraid that's not happening. [[11.50 hours]] So, like my colleague before me, I appeal to the government to work in some way significantly, not only on the government, but also on fellow Members and other politicians, so that the government can work very hard on the presentation. There's a receipt campaign going on. It was an EET campaign. And I'm not criticizing it, I understand that it was going to happen and that it was going to happen. There's an idea. What I'm saying primarily is that this GDPR is far, far more important than the receipt that I've now noticed somewhere that it's supposed to invest five or six million in promotion. So let's take ten times as much money and make an explaining defense campaign for the GDPR. Plus, of course, let's all talk about the benefits and not just the negatives and who's to blame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u31	I, too, thank you and now again have Mr Bláha's factual comment. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u32	I promise I won't walk anymore. I just wanted to apologize for probably screwing up the numbers, even though they're my strong suit. But unfortunately, here in my head or here at the microphones, even though I've been standing in front of them since I was 15, always in musical performances, it's gonna blow all over my head, and I'm not such a great rhetor. So let me specify the numbers. As of 31. 12. 2016 was registered 3 mil. 645 thousand. 647 trade licenses. A total of 1 million were registered in 2016. 146 thousand. 274 companies, of which 1 million. 144 417 legal and natural persons with 0 to 249 employees. And of that, 881 thousand. was only on the trade list. So the 881 thousand. firms employ a million of these people on a business list. And these people, as I said, often don't have the education to understand these laws the way they should. And, of course, it will be a huge problem for them to implement. That's why I say let's help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u33	Well, thank you, too. And now, please, for Mr Profant's debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u34	Good morning. The debate on GDPR implementation is complicated. Here, too, there have been some untruths and inaccuracies. I think that some have a problem distinguishing between the regulation itself, which is directly applicable, as you all know, and the directive that is implemented in the Czech legal order. However, it is clear that these confusions arose from the really shameful failure of the past, but also of the current government, because even the officials of the Ministry of the Interior confirmed to me that the implementation laws were prepared a year ago, but there was simply no political will to present them, which is really appalling. That is the problem that affects our citizens and self-government. Why are they afraid of this? Well, because it wasn't the specific law that would clearly tell them what did, what didn't. If necessary, the Office for Personal Data Protection could not make binding opinions, etc., because of course he is subject to the law. And this is a really terrible problem. And I am very sorry that Mr Michálek's proposal did not pass through the Grémium to discuss these laws at least at the last meeting so that at least the theoretical chance of the regulation or the effectiveness of the regulation would be in force, although I think it will still be longer because of the Senate, etc., and the complex debate on committees. I think the pirate party's opinion has been heard here several times, but I also allow myself to sum it up. We welcome the pan-European framework for the protection of personal data, because the protection of personal data is not really some bureaucratic fiction. Proven data are being sold, including sensitive data such as health, etc., and I do not think that these data are being made available to doctors now, but simply analytical tools are often more capable than our health care today. And that, of course, must be reflected. This is just a problem. And we have the right to privacy in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. So it is certainly necessary to let these laws go into first reading and we will have some amendments at second reading. I'd like to stop by practice. Of course, we fear it, too, because there are no laws, there are no binding interpretations. And since there are no binding interpretations, we don't know. But personally, I think this fear is relatively unfounded. I myself held a seminar for self-government, where we made it clear that they're actually doing everything out of legal authority, so they don't need to get any more consent, they don't have to deal with the agenda. They don't usually have an agenda like that. And if they have it, they should wonder if they really want it. Or maybe they're cases of the biggest authorities, etc. In fact, it has become quite clear that we have had a law in force since 2000, Act 101 on the protection of personal data, which is visibly ignored by our authorities more or less, because otherwise they could not stop at GDPR because it does not bring them much new things, which, of course, is a problem of law enforcement. And I am sorry that our public administration has disgracefully ignored this law. Then it must be said that a large part of the practice, what fines will be, etc., is, of course, covered by the decisions of the Office for Personal Data Protection or by the courts. But that of course all incidents are assessed on the principle of proportionality, on the principle of whether it really was serious or not. I really don't think anyone who runs a chess club and keeps e-mails from members doesn't have to worry unless they specifically publish those emails without consent. This regulation is clearly designed so that the possibility of hitting those big players who are really hard selling big data is actively gaining them. With the little ones, they set certain rules for the practice, that when I really have personal data, I treat them with proper care, that I passwords in databases, that I don't leave my birth numbers papers lying around on my desk and stuff like that. These are really things that we should learn to be common. And I'm glad they can... It should also be said that the so much feared written consent, where I heard how the municipalities were afraid, where they would take the written consent of their citizens, etc., and according to the interpretation of both the working group and the regulation itself, the written consent is the last option. It's the moment you collect some data you don't need from another legal title. However, there are other legal titles for a lot of use. With the public administration, clearly the legal ones. It's just clear that when you issue IDs, we have the names of our citizens. That's not a discussion, and you don't have to get written consent next to the form itself, which I really... met in the municipalities that they thought. So maybe the biggest problem is to think about whether I really need the personal data, to what extent I need it, etc. [[12.00 hours]] I would also like to mention what we do not agree with and what we propose to change at second reading. This is primarily the whole amendment of Act 106, which we consider to be completely unfounded in relation to GDPR, and we do not agree with the so-called border. Internet age, because we think 15 years is absolutely unnecessary. Thirteen years may not be our ideal, but we are willing to accept this line and we have nothing left to do, which is clearly what European Union legislation tells us. But the fifteen years are really a problem for both Internet users and their parents and businessmen who have to manage it. This is pointless and we will therefore propose a reduction in this age limit. And to concrete implementation. I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior that the passage has been made, that specific incidents are assessed in proportion and that no fine can be imposed. So much for fear again. The Office for Personal Data Protection can really play a mentoring role, and if there is no serious intentional damage, it simply explains to the small company, the tradesman, to the village where he was in error and does not have to impose any fines. We also know from practice that he does not impose fines on the maximum level today, so I really think that the concerns that are spreading here are often very unsubstantiated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u35	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I thank Mr Profant. We will continue with Mrs Věra Adámková's speech, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the fact that we have already heard several contributions, my contribution will be considerably shorter, because I will not repeat all the problems that have already been said here, but I will focus on one problem that I own, and that is a health problem. We must take into account that sharing information is sine qua non for medical care. We can't keep having the patient investigated over and over again because he doesn't even have that much blood to make up. On the other hand, in most of the cases we sit here, we have great experience with international multicentre studies, where data protection is to a very important extent, and it is important to realise that in these studies, the paper form is kept for 30 or 50 years and it is common for those international agreements, because they do not rely solely on the digital form of the record, which, truth, can sometimes be a vulnerable component. If we didn't do what we're supposed to do here, that's discussing the whole GDPR issue very properly, realize that international research projects could be threatened, which not only saves big money for our republic, I'm passing away, that's certainly going to be another contribution, but what's in the main line is that our patients and we are getting really top treatment in the world. These are medicines that may not be prescribed for another seven or ten years, and we already have experience with them and we know how to work with them. And about the information and the protection of personal data, that's it again. So it's an issue that's a little specific, but we can't let it go. Another thing is data sharing in psychiatric care, which is very specific. We'll still discuss it. Currently, even a patient who will be hospitalized in a closed ward for three quarters of a year will only bring you the message that he was there, there is nothing else about it. So even if it seems marginal, the problem of complete information must be properly discussed. Another thing that we come to in international scientific studies is that the sponsor of the study is a multinational company, not a Czech company in the vast majority of cases, so we have to bring international law into line, as these contracts command. So really please, then, let's pay a lot of attention so that we don't accidentally pour out the baby, with the bathtub and the baby, or forget about something. In any case, we will, of course, continue to follow this, and we will have comments on this. So the terrain does not have information in this regard yet, of course, in health care, it is uncertain because it could be a relatively big problem in providing not only routine care, but also the research care that we really base on, and we are glad that we can be part of these research teams. If this actually happens, then the Health Committee is claiming to be the next committee to discuss these Houses of Press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Věra Adámková. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now appear and Mr Rostislav Vyzula will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to convey the brief opinion of the Social Democracy Club. We will support the passage of this bill to second reading, but we believe that, in the light of the debate that is going on, it will be appropriate to keep at least 60 days of negotiations. And we would also like to propose, if necessary, that a detailed timetable be established on how individual subjects will be discussed in order to adapt the bill, with an interest in pushing several changes towards exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u39	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Now, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u40	Thank you, good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. By the time I got to the floor, the problem was basically implied here, and it concerns the health department. I mean, if we... I wouldn't even be performing if there wasn't a rejection of the first reading session, because then I would turn to the Senate, where we could still fix it, namely the issue of clinical research in health care. It really is a serious matter. I would like to then cooperate with both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health, where we would make an amendment in the style when clinical studies will also be made possible for our patients. It's for example. in the field of the right of access to personal data, the right to correct personal data, the right to restrict the processing of personal data, the right to object. It's a few things that seem like trivial, but they're not, because the health service would otherwise lose enormous resources. Let us remember one thing that Germany has made such adjustments, that it is Austria, Sweden, Finland and other countries. And if there's a so-called multicentre randomized study that only major pharmaceutical conglomerates are putting into the Republic today, they're actually doing two things for health care. One is, I think the most important thing is that our patients have a new treatment available that they wouldn't otherwise have gotten to. And the second thing is, they're funding the whole research, which costs a lot of money. Let me give you an example. At our oncology institute in Brno it is 200 miles a year. crowns that we actually save for health insurance companies. The patients are fully covered in the client research. But when we realize how many medical devices we have, the top facilities where these clinical trials are available today, we need to realize that if we don't have some kind of data protection policy for our patients for clinical trials, we won't have to get those studies and it could be billions across the country. I don't know exactly how much it is, but it could be billions that we're saving for health insurance companies. But it is not really just a question of finance, it is also a question of access to patients and that they will actually have the opportunity to meet the most modern treatment that currently exists. So it's just a reminder, I'd like to work on it afterwards, I'm pretty much ready to do it, but we should do it in second reading or in committee, approve or discuss it. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u41	I thank Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Mr Vlastimil Válek will discuss, Mr Munzar will prepare. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will continue to do what my previous speakers said that everything has already been said that I should be short. I was considering saying I'd talk long enough to stop you a little bit. However, I will try not to speak for long. I'd like to say three things. The first one that absolutely fascinates me that there is a directive, a European directive that has a clearly given part, which from my point of view should only be translated into Czech and published, and then a part that is variable and that we should discuss intensively. I have worked really hard to read the original of the directive, to study the original GDPR on the EU website, even though it is incredibly many pages. And I'm fascinated by how different it is from the material we should approve. And as there's a lot of extra stuff in our stuff. I don't know exactly why and for what reason. The second thing that was also said here, and I would kind of point it out on the example. We all know that the highway is driven at a maximum speed of 130 km, and we all know that whoever tries is suicidal. Because those cars that go there much faster, they destroy it, destroy it, and overwhelm it. And now all of a sudden, we're finding out that the fact that you really, really have a fair time is gonna have to drive the 130. And that's how I perceive GDPR. I would like to say a specific example of why I think that we really need to implement this directive to a reasonable extent, in the one that is necessary, about everything that is additionally, to be discussed very intensively in the committees, and I would very much like the discussions in the committees to be as long as possible. I support what Professor Zemánková proposed - Adámková, sorry, Professor - to discuss this in the Health Committee. And I'll give you a reason. This is my phone. [[He's pointing.]] I'm on that cell phone with a frame viewing program because I'm a radiologist. If I choose any of you here in this room and find out his name, last name and date of birth, I'll make a very simple call to ten hospitals in the Republic, and basically, with a few exceptions, I'll find out his dates. They'll send them to my phone. I'll introduce myself, no one knows it's me, and I'll have the data on my phone, I'll look at your scans, I'll look at basically anything. There are a few hospitals in the Republic - and that's not allowed, according to current legislation - there are a few hospitals where when I call, they say, "I'm sorry, Professor, we're not going to send you those pictures, because if you want to send pictures, you either have to go there yourself as a patient and ask for them, or your attending doctor has to send a request. But the vast majority of sick people don't deal with it that way. The vast majority of hospitals - in the vast majority of hospitals, this is provided by a regular TH worker, a nurse, a lab technician, an engineer at the center of computer science, who doesn't really care about who wants these pictures, doesn't really solve what they want them for. He'll only send them from hospital A to hospital B. In this way, two systems are connected all hospitals in the Czech and Slovak Republics. If I have access to any information system of any hospital, I can access the image documentation and a number of data of any patient in the Czech Republic without the patient knowing. Even if this is not possible under current legislation. And GDPR is one of the ways to fix these things, how things that really should always be followed, for example, that I should send messages to a patient and not just to anyone at random, that I should have information about the sick person's personal data sent to a really sick person, his attending doctor or whoever the patient agrees to give them to, so it could finally be kept, in a number of things could be done in order. I am extremely sorry that instead of discussing this or our predecessors in Parliament for two or three years, they have discussed how to make the most useful use of it for the citizens of our Republic, how to make the most of the legislation and now, not in five minutes twelve, not five minutes after twelve, but two years after twelve, we are just starting a debate on what is the content of GDPR, how best to implement it into legislation, and we are just going to start debating in committees, what to do about it and how to do it. I think it's sad, and it doesn't testify to, say, a good sign for those who should have implemented this material and prepared it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u43	I thank Mr Válek. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me focus your attention for a moment on the fact that the GDPR issue has already been discussed at its meeting by the Economic Committee, which adopted the following resolution, among other things, in February of this year, that the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic expresses concern about the implementation of GDPR in the Czech Republic and considers the state of preparation of GDPR implementation to be insufficient. We can rightly ask what was the role of the previous political representation, the previous government, who had even discussed it, and did, say, at the ministerial level in Brussels, except for officials that it might not be a regulation, that it could be a directive. Because, of course, the regulation enters our right with different terms, with different definitions, as the rapporteur, Benda, has said. I am fascinated that we do not have an evaluation of the impact of this regulation on the business environment, the public sector, etc. We accept something humbly from Brussels, and we will not make an assessment of the economic and other effects. I am convinced that even though it is a regulation adopted at Brussels level, the Czech State should also know in these legitimate cases the effects of similar regulations on our territory and on our citizens. I would like to follow up on Mr Bláha, who spoke here about the Business Council, which yesterday discussed GDPR at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I am impressed that the month is up to implementation, or until the regulation is in force on our territory, and now I quote the comments and problems of the presentation of the Chamber of Commerce, I am surprised that entrepreneurs are still saying that they would welcome the methodological guidelines for the introduction of GDPR. We have a month until the regulation is in force and businessmen still do not have methodical instructions! Second point. Entrepreneurs still do not know what measures to implement in relation to GDPR. Information is really slim, although it often improves, but it started late. Some entrepreneurs still mistakenly believe that GDPR does not apply to them. And businessmen, in particular, complain about the expensive administration associated with GDPR. According to information from the survey of the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs and Traders, two thirds of small and medium-sized companies work with foreign data. This means that this regulation and the application laws that we will approve here will concern an extraordinary number of entrepreneurs. We all understand that the original idea of the regulation is to prevent trade in our personal data, but, in my opinion, the method of the combiner type, which affects all, even small businessmen, has been chosen and increases their administration. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] I fear that during practical application we should not be more papal here in Bohemia and Moravia than the Pope again. Instead of using awareness in Europe, especially among young people, that personal data is valuable and that we should approach and protect them naturally rather than leading society naturally to respect for each other's personal information -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u45	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace so that you can make your contribution safely, because the noise level here is very high. Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u46	Thank you, Mr President. So instead of leading society naturally to respect personal data, it is replaced, this awareness is replaced by technical measures which, I fear, will lead to a pejorative approach to personal data protection in the finals, because it will bother small and small entrepreneurs in particular. So I'm afraid it doesn't miss the effect. What about it? It's a regulation that's about to start to apply. I agree with the rapporteur, Mr Benda, that the Office for Personal Data Protection should primarily be the one advising entrepreneurs on how to meet GDPR requirements and not the one primarily sanctioning. I personally share the concerns of the second approach, which the private sector also has. We should look for all ways to mitigate these impacts for further action. But since GDPR is concerned with the business environment, I would like to propose in a detailed debate that the bill be ordered for discussion to the economic committee as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u47	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Mr Patrik Nacher will now take the floor, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be ready to speak again. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, good afternoon already. As a Eurorealist, I would probably turn into a Eurosceptic. I think there was a good plan in the beginning. Now we're talking about spams, how we're affected from different sides. On the other hand, this may turn into major problems, restrictions or threats, even thinking about the functioning of certain institutions and associations. My colleague here, the previous speaker, was talking about the option, or the principle of the harvester. I'd use something else. The system itself bothers me not to distinguish between institutions that have built their activities to collect personal data from others. That's all the little businessmen, associations, just all the people who work, sports clubs and the like. On the other hand, some myths are being created here in the Czech Republic as always, and this is being inflated and used by various entrepreneurs who offer their training for twenty-thirty thousand, and the others, in fear, of course, order this. That seems like a classic combination to me, which means something will come up in the EU, it has to be implemented. The question is, I'm saying, in the beginning, there was a good intention, but the detail may already be damaged on the other side. Often, by wanting to be more papal than the Pope himself, we scare the whole society. I would like to focus in particular on the part relating to journalistic, artistic and scientific activities, these are paragraphs 16 and 21. In my opinion, the bill does not provide sufficient exceptions to GDPR precisely for journalistic and, in particular, academic activities. It is based on the concept of causal exceptions, which I think is essential, and unfortunately it does not work with the proportionality test, with which Czech law works. I am glad, luckily, therefore, GDPR assumes precisely for the purposes of journalistic and artistic and scientific activity that each state will have some exceptions, because each Member State has specific national forms, as described by freedom of expression and the right to dissemination of information. In a moment, if it were to be accepted as it is now - and I just remind you that only Slovakia implemented this form in this way - in a moment, if it were to be accepted as it is now, I predict various restrictions that could, for example, limit filming in public places, in sports matches, restricting news at various demonstrations, demonstrations, because, in fact, any participant who would have been prevented there would have had the right to ask him for his consent. But I think it goes even further, that personal data from this point of view is also, let's say, a kind of accessibility to some religion, so that reports or documents mapping the life of national minorities or religious communities could be limited. Then I'll do a few visuals here at second reading if I can do it. That is why I would like to propose in this debate that this law should also be imposed on the electoral committee so that we can discuss all these matters there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u49	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher. Now the performance by my colleague Kateřina Valachová. This is the last one entered into the debate so far. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to introduce you to the opinion of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic on the initiative of the President of the Constitutional Court, Pavel Rychetský. I am only doing this at this point because I believe that this is a reason or one of the other reasons for not having this bill under the so-called short-cut regime, in the so-called '90s'. The Permanent Commission has become familiar with the reservations of the Constitutional Court on this amendment and supported this resolution: The Permanent Commission does not recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the amendment of the Constitutional Court law in connection with the so-called implementation of the GDPR Directive. It considers it inadmissible to intervene in the competence of the Constitutional Court in the area of the control of constitutionality of legal standards. I note that the permanent commission does not have the ambition to discuss this bill, however it considered it necessary to comment on the Constitutional Court's position and to look back on the interventions in the Constitutional Court as it agreed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u51	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. That was the last one entered into the debate. And I'm asking who's reporting for the debate from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. So we will be dealing with the final words. Is the minister interested in the final word? Yes? The rapporteur? He won't make it. Well, if you're not interested in principle or only briefly, I'm sure we'll make it in half. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u52	I'm sorry, I'll turn myself in. The minister is interested in the final word, and there was a lot of these things and he wanted to respond to them in some way. The proposals will be several and we still have the accompanying law. In my opinion, at this point, we have only one option, and that is to decide now if we are continuing this afternoon. That is why I went to the petitioner for another bill by Mr. Václav Klaus Jr., who is now negotiating with the Minister of Education, if he would be willing to interrupt this point by the beginning of noon, and therefore we would move the school law by, say, half an hour and finish it. Whether the minister can be here this afternoon or we'll do it after school law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u53	Okay, I understand. I understand that, in three minutes, perhaps, the Minister would not have dealt with the comments from the debate, it would have been broad. We have a procedural proposal here, which we must leave to vote from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, because there is a school law for 14.30 hours. This means that we would continue this interrupted point after 14.30 and after the end of this point and after point 38 we would continue with school law. If you have no objection, we must vote twice. Firstly, there is a situation where it is possible to vote on a change to the agenda in the period from 9.00 to 9.30 hours. And if you agree to this as the Chamber of Deputies, I will have this motion voted. If no one objects to the President's procedure, I shall first vote that there are conditions where it is possible to change the agenda outside the agreed time according to the Rules of Procedure. We will decide in the vote number 87, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of making such a condition. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 87, 170 for 153, against no one. The Chamber of Deputies agrees that there has been a condition when it is possible to change the agenda of the meeting with a vote in the course of the hearing. Therefore, on the basis of the rapporteur's proposal for this press, I propose that we vote on interrupting this point and continuing at 14.30 and the fixed point, the school law, will be after paragraphs 37 and 38. We will decide in the vote number 88, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 88, with 173 in favour of 158, against no one. We have therefore changed the agenda by interrupting item 37 and completing item 37 and item 38 by 14.30, and then following the approved agenda by the school law. I'm interrupting item 37. [[12.30 hours]] It is 12:30 p.m. and we will therefore deal with the approved agenda by voting points. The President of the Election Commission is present, so I can invite him to the counter so that we can begin the individual ballot points. Chairman of the Election Commission Martin Kolovratník. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-001-037.u54	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, esteemed members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. They are prepared in this block of polling points a total of four points and this time neither one of them will be acclamation, we will all decide by secret ballot in the State acts. The first point is
