ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-013-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and other related laws /house print 51/ - first reading This point has already been opened today and has been interrupted after the rapporteur's speech. The debate has not been opened. So on this occasion, I am now opening up a general debate on this point. I don't have any applications at this point. [[Noise in the hall.]] Quiet in the hall, please. I see your colleague Luzar reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-013-018.u2	Mr President, Minister, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have a law on road traffic ahead of us, the vast majority of which concerns the issue that has already been contained in this House in the past. I am paraphrasing the Minister freely: it is a problem, it is a problem, it is a problem, but we are unable to solve it at some reasonable time. We're going back to the technical inspection stations and trying to regulate or possibly. release the problems caused by these stations or, if applicable, by them. their links and distribution between the technical inspection stations and the emission stations that are designed in this amendment. As part of getting to know the first proposal you put on the table, I have decided to prepare some amendments, which will, of course, then be discussed within the Committees and I will load them at second reading, but I would like to at least basically tell you what they will be about, and I will welcome, of course, the suggestions that would be practical. What led me to do this, although I'm not much of an expert, and like all of you, I come into contact with the STK every two years when I'm finished with TK, and I perceive the increased quality of these stations with technical equipment and access. Yet, I have come across a problem that has proved unsolvable by the current system. It seemed like a paradox to me. I assumed that it was already in practice established and moved within the responsibility of the border, that even the regions are able to enforce the STK system and find their place. I've come across problems when I've been approached by entrepreneurs who have an interest in building, I'll call it noble and admit it, I don't know what I would technically call it, but something like a test station or a research center on car traffic. It is a concept from autonomous vehicles, which is now much inclined, to, say, common technical issues concerning the normal operation of cars and the identification of data from these vehicles in the context of the development and research of automotive transport. [[18.20 hours]] One of the conditions to obtain a license e.g. for freight wagons and testing freight wagons in operation, this is a special licence that is granted, but part of it is that they must have the license associated with the technical inspection stations as such. These stations are now allocated in the form, say, of licences in a complex mathematical calculation based on the yield of districts, the need for vehicles, how many vehicles will increase or decline in the year, the parameters will be determined. The situation in the Czech Republic is currently in a state that there are quite a lot of people interested in the station, if any, where the station is released. where space is released, in other words vehicle capacity will increase, so existing stations use the law and build other lines and do not allow competition. It is such a state of affairs to seek a compromise between maintaining the profitability of these station operators and, on the other hand, ensuring that the capacity is still bearable and that people did not wait two or three hours to complete the STK. But this particular problem that I am going back to is just connected with the fact that these people who want to invest in the order of maybe millions or tens of millions in this project in cooperation with universities have come across the fact that they are unable to overcome this legal possibility. I was based on the fact that there is some exception from every law that it can be taken into account that it is some generally beneficial element that can be applied. But I found that there is no such exception in the existing law or in the proposal before us. So my first observation will be to get that exception into the law, for example, in those research or school matters, so that even these, if I say the godly expression, can be used and used, they will be licensed to operate on STK stations for this reason of research purposes. The second thing that is not at all addressed in existing technical stations and even in this law is the situation where autonomous vehicles are increasingly coming into the market in Europe. We're talking about electric cars today, which is a strange situation. And now I'm not talking about hybrids, but I'm talking about fully electric cars that we're already able to buy on our markets, and they're already such fans who bought it, but paradoxically, technical control stations for these vehicles aren't ready at all. We do not have anywhere in the law that they should be technically equipped to properly assess these vehicles. Now I'm not talking about the operating conditions, the brakes and these things, but it's really a specific form of vehicles, the electric cars, but especially the autonomous vehicles, that we're not even ready for partial autonomous vehicles to be able to control. You guys are gonna buy a car that's parked for you today, but the tech control station isn't gonna be able to check if the parking is really working the way it's supposed to work. We're counting on the manufacturer here to hand over the vehicle that he's parked for you, but where do we know that in two or three years of operation it'll still be fully operational and the sensors that are, and the security systems will be operational? We don't have it covered in this bill or in this proposal. That's another area I'd like to focus on in this area. And the third thing that I might miss in the upcoming amendment, maybe it's hidden there, but I confess, I don't know, and here I'm going to ask for the help of the Parliamentary Institute, is the situation within the European Union. I have experience, and I do not have it verified, and I will ask the Parliamentary Institute to investigate how the recognition of technical control stations, their protocol, is based within Europe. In other words, if the protocol that was made in the Czech Republic is valid e.g. in Poland, or vice versa, whether the technical inspection station in Poland will apply that option in the Czech Republic. I wonder how it is within Europe. I say, I may have overlooked it, but I wonder how it is within Europe in general. In other words, I live in the border area on the Czech-Polish border, Ostrava is 50 km away from Poland, and these problems are quite often encountered in cooperation with the Polish side and citizens also use different car prices between the Polish side, the Czech side. These things may require a more detailed view. If that's what the law says, I've got a job saved, if that's what it is. I'll see how this is handled specifically. Yet I have in my notes that it was an area to which I wanted to comment on this. Anyway, I welcome the Ministry's efforts to prepare this law. I will try to formulate my amendments into some paraphrased (?) the text. If I can use the Ministry's option, I'd be happy to come to a common compromise. And I firmly believe that in further readings we will be able to pass this law successfully by the Chamber of Deputies until the final approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-013-018.u3	Thank you, too. I have two tickets before we move. Mr Jan Richter apologizes to us from 18.30 to the end of the negotiations for work reasons and the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes to us today from 18.15 to the end of the negotiations for urgent work reasons. We are in a general debate. I do not have factual remarks, I do not see another application for a debate at this time, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking if there will be final words. It doesn't look like it. In that case, as far as I know, there have been no proposals for rejection or return, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. So we're going to vote. I dare to call my colleagues. Given how thin the benches are, I'll check out. For those who are coming now, we will vote on the commandment of the press 51 to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. I'm waiting to see if the counter's stabilized. It seems so, but the MPs are still coming... Looks like we're all together. I will take the liberty of taking a vote. I ask who is for the commandment. Who's against it? In the vote number 63, 125 Members were enrolled, 125 were in favour, there was no one against it. The resolution was adopted. We have ordered this to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Furthermore, the President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. That's the end of the discussion. Thank you and I will see you later about this text. Let me open one more point, that's
