ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-005-132.u1	132. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies On the bench, you were handed over to this item by the resolution of the Election Commission No. 86 of 18 September this year. I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor and inform us of the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-005-132.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good afternoon. As traditionally on behalf of the electoral committee, I apologize to those of you who wanted to negotiate a point, but this is always our joint agreement, where we place the ballot points firmly so that, in the House's deliberations, they have their established order in order to meet them. As Mr President said, now firmly, that is, at 12.30, the proposal for changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. I have three voting points for you for the election committee. The first one will be acclamation because it's a change in our organs. The next two points are personnel elections, so then we would go to the secret election in the State Act. On the first point, Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions. So it's a standard electoral point that we sort of place at every House meeting. Today, as part of the resolution that we have passed on to you, we complement organizational changes or club proposals after the summer, even after the government changes that took place in the summer. The deadline proposed by the Commission was September 17th until 12 o'clock. Your proposals from the Election Commission have been discussed in Resolution No. 86 this Tuesday, September 18th. I'll brief you on the subject of the resolution at a speed. Suggestions are all for two clubs. One is within the scope of the YES movement and, therefore, within the limits of thevora, according to the division, the YES movement belongs, and the second proposal was supplemented by colleagues from social democracy just after the announced changes in the leadership of the House and also in the government. Resignation. From the Budget Committee of resignation of Milan Hnilička, from the Security Committee of Pavel Pustějovskýějovský, from the Foreign Committee of the Member Robert králíček and from the Defence Committee also Robert králíček. These are all resignations for the YES movement. Against this, the ANO movement will now nominate a fellow Member, President of the Association of Regions Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, to the Committee on Security of Robert Králíček and to the Committee on Defence of Karla Šlechtová. Jaroslav Foldyna Social Democracy Committee is also nominated for the defence committee, a place which was released under Section 33 for Mr Hanzel when he became a member of the House's leadership. Another nomination is the foreign committee Karla Šlechtová for the movement YES, to the mandate and immunity committee Taťána Malá and also to the constitutional law committee Taťána Malá. It was a place that was temporarily released after the summer. The last two nominations are from social democracy, the Permanent Commission for the Use of Wiretapping Petr Dolínek and Parliament's Permanent Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. For these changes, the electoral commission normally proposes the choice of public acclaims. First, then, one vote on the resignations of Members, then the second vote on nominations. I ask you now, Mr President, to open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-005-132.u3	Before I open the debate, I will just announce that with replacement card No. 8 Vice-President of the House, Tomáš Hanzel. And so I am now opening up the debate and I will see if anyone has entered into the debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. If you're interested in the final word?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-005-132.u4	I will just ask for one vote to resign Members, so I presented them in the resolution and confirm nominations with the second vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-005-132.u5	So I'll call the Members to vote. I hope we're all here. First, we will vote on resignations, as the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, presented. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the cross. Sorry, press the button. [[Glee in the hall.]] I'm sorry, I'm already thinking about the election. If you're against it, raise your hand and press the button. In voting order number 166 registered by 143 Members, for 128, against zero. The result was accepted. Now we're going to vote on the second proposal, this is about the election, the nominations. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In voting order number 167 registered by 143 Members, for 130, against zero. The result was accepted. I'm going to postpone this point. Let's get to the next point.
