ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws / House print 79/ - second reading [[17.50 hours]] Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, who is at the rapporteur's table. The rapporteur of the constitutional law committee Zdeněk Ondráček is also on the spot of rapporteurs. I am merely stating that we have ordered the proposal at first reading to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee, and the committee's resolution is delivered as House Press 79/1 and the committee's record has been delivered as House Press 79/2. I will now ask the Minister to introduce him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled is a comprehensive amendment to the Criminal Code, which is the primary objective of adapting our criminal law in order to meet our already accepted or accepted international obligations. So, first of all, it eliminates the legislative shortcomings identified by the so-called Moneyval - the Committee of Experts for the Evaluation of Measures against Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing. These are changes in criminal offences in the area of money laundering. Furthermore, it is necessary to amend the criminal rules needed to ratify the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Furthermore, it is a full implementation of Directive 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating terrorism and, finally, full implementation of obligations under the Council of Europe Convention on Computer Crime. In the present discussion, most of these points have not aroused major controversy, we will see whether there will be a debate today, with one exception, and that is the introduction of a criminal offence of obstruction of justice aimed at protecting criminal proceedings against the efforts of some advocates to mislead the court by knowingly false evidence, such as false or false expert opinions or otherwise falsified documents. There I believe that we have succeeded, in cooperation with Professor Válková, in adapting the wording so as to avoid certain concerns about overuse of this newly introduced fact, and I believe that this will no longer be a problem. But we'll see in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and ask the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, to inform us about committee discussions and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee dealt with the material at its 13th and 18th meetings, but it did not adopt a resolution at its 18th meeting, but only agreed with the comments of Members and Members who were delivered on the Constitutional Legal Committee. This was specifically the amendment made by Professor Helena Válková, mentioned by the Minister, and by Mr Marek Benda, as well as the legislative technical regulation adopted by the rapporteur in the constitutional legal committee, see the record of the constitutional law committee, which is conducted as House press 79/2. Since the observations which the Constitutional Committee has given its consent have not been adopted in the resolution, this material cannot be considered as material approved by the Constitutional Committee and presented as a resolution by the Constitutional Committee. That is why, in agreement with legislation and with the Constitutional Committee, we have agreed and all the above-mentioned comments with which the Constitutional Committee has given its consent - and I repeat again, these are the comments made by Professor Helena Válková, and in this House press 79/2, in the record, you have them listed under points 1 and 3. After that, it is the legislative technical amendments adopted by the rapporteur, i.e. I. They are mentioned in this House press 79/2 as point 2 and also points 4 and 5. Finally, these are the comments made by Mr Marek Benda, with whom the Constitutional Committee has agreed, and these are the comments set out in paragraphs 6 and 7. So, in agreement with the legislation, I have put all these comments into the House system as House document 786 and then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the economic report. I am opening a general debate. There are now two Members who have signed up. First Mr Jan Chvojka, then Mr Marek Benda. I will therefore ask Mr. Jan Chvojka for his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In fact, he already mentioned it, the Minister and the rapporteur. This criminal code has been discussed on the grounds of the constitutional law committee for quite a long time, and there was no problem except for the provisions that relate to the new criminal offence under Section 347a, obstruction of justice. I am of the opinion that, following the expert discussion held on the Board of Constitutional Law, but also on the round table, which was convened on the initiative of members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, no argument was raised that would justify extending the criminal repression beyond the so-called participation of the crime into the plane of seduction to it. Seduction is considered necessary to punish where the main deed is not criminal, that is, for example, seduction to abort pregnancy or tox screen and so on. Moreover, in my view, the proposed adjustment is not certain enough to allow for only one single interpretation and to prevent it from being abused equally clearly. At the same time, the expert discussion - and this is precisely what is essential about the fact that this is a professional discussion - has clearly turned to the conclusion that the proposed provision needs to be redesigned, and, in its basis, to be more precise and better anchored in the criminal code system. This was greatly supported by the amendment adopted by the Constitutional Committee, but not consistently, in my view. I therefore dare to table an amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. The amendment has three points. In the first part of Article I, in the present paragraph, paragraph 42 is replaced by paragraph 347a. 1 after the word "which" is inserted by the words "pronounce that it is true, though." The second part - in the first part of Article I in the present point 42 is in § 347a para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. And part three - in Part Two, in point 8, the words "the obstruction of justice according to § 347a para. 3 and 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure' are being released. Thank you and I will apply to the proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u7	I thank Mr Jan Chvojka. Mr Ondřej Benešík's factual comment now. I'll ask my colleague Benda to be patient. A real point, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just very briefly. There's a phrase here in the Istanbul Convention. As you know, KDU-ČSL is against ratification of this Convention, however, it is against tightening up and refinement of the sections that combat violence against women. [[For?]] I think this is exactly the way. We do not need to accept the Istanbul Convention as a whole, like this treaty, which contains positive but also very dangerous and negative provisions, but we can tighten up our rule of law and really effectively combat violence against women and anyone else without having to accept it. [[18.00 hours]] So in the context that it was said that we would prepare for its ratification, it is up to the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and the President if we ratify it. We, as a party, are fundamentally opposed, but we are in favour of implementing good things that will also specify and tighten violence against anyone, including women, in this way, by adjusting our existing legal order by tightening up and refinement, not by ratifying the Convention, which also contains dangerous and harmful matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u9	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and, therefore, now, Mr Marek Benda in a proper application in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u10	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first I will take advantage of the fact that I am standing here at the speaker's stand, on endless discussions on factual remarks, where, for example, at this moment, the President has had a beautiful opportunity to take the floor from my speaker, because he has not responded to the debate, but to what was said in the introductory words of the Minister, and has applied a substantive position on this. Since we are so often wondering how we should not abuse those factual remarks, perhaps it would be enough if the President had been a little tougher on us at times and demanded compliance with the Rules of Procedure Act, and then we would not be ahead of ourselves with various inputs, factual remarks. However, I volunteered to apply some factual arguments to this bill and, at the same time, come up with one procedural proposal, which I will say right at the beginning, so that there is a chance to meet. I propose that, at the end of the general debate, we decide to return this bill to the constitutionally-legal committee for renegotiation. I think that unfortunately, we have not been able to find a sufficiently reasonable and balanced position in the most sensitive thing that is precisely the noblely called obstruction of justice, which, although it seems, could potentially lead us to prosecute the crimes of presenting false evidence, false claims before the court, but - and the constitutionally-legal committee did do this rather extensive round table, on which they were representatives of all legal states and professions, and I must say that (to) obstruction of justice in the form presented by the Ministry of Justice only the prosecutors, no wonder, for those it is a welcome way of fighting against their opponents, whether they were lawyers or those prosecuted, and one of the judges of the Supreme Court. Everyone else expressed great doubt over the text, including the representatives of the Supreme Court, the advocacy and others, whether it was reasonable in this form to implement what is sublimely called obstruction of justice. If in a number of cases it doesn't lead to the fact that there will be an extension of the processes, especially the civil processes. Because let's imagine a civil process in which there will be doubts as to whether any of the evidence submitted there is false or not fulfilling this deed. It was true that, of course, the court was able to decide whether the evidence was correct or incorrect, but the civil court could not decide how the criminal proceedings would end. I just think it's a very complicated question. I might suggest that we drop the whole thing and get back to it sometime in the future, because I don't think it's a thing that's in any hurry. But if we want to discuss the matter, I think that the discussion that ended on the Constitutional Legal Committee has unfortunately failed to reflect all the objections raised by the professional public has not sufficiently reflected the concerns of the lawyers, which - I say frankly, there are those concerns, and there are, if in such a situation the court is not the one presenting the evidence to any court, which gives the defendant or the party to the proceedings, then the one who brings it to the court is actually the lawyer. A lawyer will have to ask his client a question before any evidence is presented: can you sign that you're giving me the real evidence? Or is he in danger of being charged or prosecuted in some situations? I think there's just too many complications. There are very few cases that could solve this. The minister mentioned expert opinions here, but a false expert opinion is already a criminal offence today. Moreover, there is, of course, a problem with the possibility of the right of defence, where it has been said, the change brought by Mrs Válková, says that it must be documentary evidence, but typically the right of defence, where I have the right, and so far it has always been so respected - if I am trying to prove that I am not to be convicted of such a crime, then I have the right to lie to the court. The court has no doubt to prove to me that I am the culprit. I can say, I wasn't there at the five o'clock when the lady was stabbed. But even if I submit my diary that says "he was in the clinic at five o'clock" and it turns out later that I made that diary after the deed happened, he might set me free for stabbing that lady, but he's gonna charge me with presenting false evidence and obstruction of justice. I just think it's a big complication. I do not want to throw it all away, but I suggest that at the end of the general debate - because otherwise I will bring my proposals in a detailed debate - we have decided by voting that we are returning the bill to the constitutionally-legal committee for a new discussion, so that this passage in particular can be adjusted and adjusted. If that were not the case, I am merely stating that, in addition to the proposals concerning obstruction of justice, I will make one more proposal to that part of the possibility of impunity in the event of offering or granting a bribe. This is again a matter that was discussed in this House two years ago. The Ministry of Justice has already brought this proposal in 2016, on the proposal of the then President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Tejc, it was dismissed because we consider impunity to be wrong in such a situation and even with a question mark, if not contrary to our international obligations. I think it's another matter that we should consider if we want to go back to what we decided here a while ago. At least so briefly at this point, and I ask that, at the end of the general debate on my proposal, a vote be taken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u11	I thank Mr Marek Benda. I accept the complaint, too. It is true that I should have taken the floor with my colleague Benešík because it was a material performance, not a reaction to the performance. Now, with a proper application, my colleague, Mr Petr Sadovský, and, of course, at the end of the general debate, I am registering the proposal. I'm sure the rapporteur is, too. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u12	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to table an amendment, which basically only extends the limitation period for acts of sexual violence, forced marriage, maiming of female sex organs, forced abortion or forced sterilization, so that criminal proceedings can be initiated even after the victim reaches age. The point is that criminal proceedings can only begin after the victim reaches 18 years of age. I will then sign up for this amendment, which is read under number 543, in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u13	I thank Mr Petr Sadovský for his speech in the general debate, and I ask who goes on to the general debate. If no one, the general debate... Okay, colleague Michálek in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u14	Thank you for the floor. To balance the attorneys' lobby, I just wanted to think about how it is possible that lawyers perform in public space and follow up on saying that they have the right to lie, basically some of them even say that they have the right to present false evidence. Sounds to me like he's completely over the edge and they're living in some golden cage, out of the real world. So I don't like this rudely. In principle, I support the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Justice, and I do not agree with the return to the Constitutional Legal Committee, because the Constitutional Committee did not agree to do so, so I don't think it can be expected that if we go back there, it will solve something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u15	Thank you. I'm still asking if anyone in the general debate. If no one, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u16	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also, if I may, also comment on my dear colleague Benda's speech. I do not, of course, support the return to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think that the constitutional committee has actually discussed this issue very extensively, even there, or that amendment has been drafted together, which responds to some of the objections, and in the rest I already think that this honourable House can decide by its vote, and that further discussions in the constitutional committee would bring nothing further to this. I also believe that since the accused is entitled to lie in court or at all in criminal proceedings, we should not derive further deviations from the general obligation in judicial proceedings to speak the truth and not try to mislead the court, because it is logical that if a court is allowed to mislead someone in judicial proceedings, it reduces the likelihood of a fair outcome and finding justice. I must remind you here why the defendant, or later, has the right to lie to no one without question. It is not a separate right, but it is already a right derived from another right, and that is the right, or the prohibition of self-incrimination, that is, for good reasons, no one must be forced to contribute to his conviction in any way, to accuse himself or otherwise to help him be convicted. And of course, if the defendant is also burdened with the obligation to speak the truth, then a kind of skillful question can force him to do so. Because I'm gonna ask him in such a way that he's either forced to lie, making him commit some other crime at the time, or admit that he's committed something. So we have the right to lie there for this reason so that the person can't blame himself. When presenting evidence, and I really support the amendment, which specifies it to documentary evidence, of course, there is no threat of that. How my honored colleague had quite a fine example of us finding out if someone was out there, and therefore we really have to let him say that he was somewhere else to say that he didn't exist that day or I don't know what. But why should we give him the right to give the court false proof that he was somewhere else? What good would that do? Why should we grant him the right to try, with impunity, to mislead the court by bringing a later completed diary or a modified diary, and showing it and saying, "Out of this, Judge, bring out that I am right when I say that I was not there. That doesn't help anything. And unfortunately, we do this in a small percentage of disputes, but in those major disputes, we often see them more often and more often, and I think that finding justice really hurts that very much, and that the possibility of finding justice in court deserves criminal protection in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u17	Thank you for the final word to the Minister. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. We have one vote ahead of us, which is at second reading after the general debate, and this is a proposal to return the law to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93 para. 2. I'll unsign you all out. I'll put you in charge of calling a candidate for this decision. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We shall vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the return of the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. I'll wait until the number of applicants has settled... We will decide on this proposal in the vote number 23, which I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 23. Of the 151 Members present for 58, versus 83. The motion was not accepted. So we will continue with the debate in detail, in which I have three registered so far. The first enrollment is Mr. Jan Chvojka. Of course, I ask the House to be calm so that Mr Chvojka can state his amendment in detail in the debate and justify it. Calm down, please. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As I announced in the general debate, when I justified my amendment, I am now reporting to it in a detailed debate, it is registered in the system under number 790. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u19	I thank Mr Chvojka. Now, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u20	Mr President, I also mentioned in the general debate how House document 786, which I therefore refer to as being inserted into the system, so 786, the House document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u21	I thank Mr Ondráček. Now, Mr Marek Benda, then Mr Sadovský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u22	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply three amendments. You have one under the House press 769, where please, but only a mistake, only points 1 and 2 apply, that point 3 was left there by mistake. So 769, points 1 and 2. It's about releasing obstruction of justice. I have tried to justify this in the general debate, and I will probably stress this to you in the third reading, so that you can understand how big the problem is potentially. The second House document is under press 770, which concerns the failure to prosecute people who have given bribes, which I consider really immoral. I also spoke about this in the general debate. And the third House document is under House press 781. There I fear that I am almost the same as my colleague Chvojka, but it concerns, if there is any obstruction of justice, so that there is not at least the seduction that we consider to be very dangerous, especially in a situation where there will be no crime, but the seduction itself will be a crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u23	I thank Mr Benda. Now, Mr Sadovský, in a detailed debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u24	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, as I have justified here in the general debate, I, too, would like, as has been announced, to sign up to Amendment 543. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-011-018.u25	Thank you, Mr Sadovský. Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail. There was no proposal that was voted at second reading, and we can therefore ask if there is an interest in the final word after a detailed debate. Mr. Secretary? The final word after the detailed - it is not so. Neither does the rapporteur. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister. And we'll continue. This time it's about
