ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 80/6/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 80/7. I welcome Senator Pavel Štohl among us. I ask that the plaintiff Jaroslav Foldyna comment on the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have put forward a bill together with my colleague from the ANO movement. This bill, of course, I am no tax policy expert, I will admit it, we have collectively tried to find a way to deal with a group of people who are taxatically listed in the 1974 Double Taxation Treaty with Holland. We have had discussions here in Parliament, and I think that the way people who understand tax law and tax policy matters, we have approved it. Of course, when I was lecturing this bill in the Senate, even my fellow Members in the Senate pointed out that I was not an expert on tax policy, so I reflected what their body recommended them, i.e. the Senate Institute, or the area that deals with the tax policy. I respected the Senate's refusal to do so with the fact that I would consult with my fellow Members in Parliament. I'd like my colleague Fischer to introduce you to his colleagues, respectively. institutes, Senate institutes, to some extent they were wrong, and we will try, and I would like to ask you to try to overrule this Senate veto, because it is no obstacle in the context as stated in the Senate. I'll leave the technical and technical debate to my colleague. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, too. I'm just going to slightly challenge you to turn to your colleagues through me. I have here with Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact, but we are not yet in the debate, so I cannot give you the floor. Now I ask that Senator Pavel Štohl take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your colleague, Mr Foldyna, mentioned here that he was trying to resolve the situation, in a simple way, by proposing this law, of the sailors operating in Holland. We have also discussed with the Member that yes, this matter needs to be resolved, but in the opinion of the Senate Economic Committee, which was a guarantee committee, this solution is not exactly the happiest. What would that mean? What is the current situation, and what would it mean to adopt this bill? This amendment cannot only address the situation of shippers in the Netherlands, but it would affect more or less all people, foreign citizens, who operate in the Czech Republic. And it can't really be done just for Holland. This means, at present, that if a foreign citizen works in the Czech Republic, it is taxed from a supergross wage, which is a gross wage plus 34 %. Following the adoption of this amendment of the law, it would mean that a foreign citizen operating in the Czech Republic would be taxed on the gross wage plus the premium that applies in the relevant state. Among other things, it would mean that if Slovák, Němec, Polák etc. were employed in the Czech Republic, everyone would have a different wage tax because they would also have other insurance premiums that apply in the respective state. This would also mean, among other things, a relatively large administrative burden for small and medium-sized companies, because their payroll accountants would really have to find out what the premium rate is more or less in all countries of the European Union and Switzerland. Of course, problems would also arise in terms of control of Financial Administration, which would be quite complicated and complicated. That is, the conclusion is, yes, it is necessary to address the situation of sailors in Holland if I simplify it this way, but we have also dealt with the Chamber of Tax Advisors, and it has also given us recommendations that the adoption of this bill would be very unfortunate and complicated for smaller and medium-sized companies. Therefore, the Senate adopted a proposal from the Economic Committee and proposed to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u5	I, too, thank you, and now I wonder if an authorised representative of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Budgets, wants to comment on the Senate resolution. Mr Fridrich is no longer a member of the Committee on Budgets, so I will give you the floor in the debate. I am now opening the debate. Mr Kalousek and then Mr Fridrich came forward first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. [[There's noise in the hall, and there's a group of Members coming from the lobby.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this situation is very unfortunate and very discriminatory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u7	I ask the Members who come from the foyer to keep calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u8	No, I'm glad it's so funny. The situation is very unfortunate and very discriminatory. Although only for a few hundred people, but even if there were a few dozen, tax legislation and tax rules should not discriminate against anyone. The origin of this situation is, let's face it, in the unwillingness of Members in particular of the ANO movement and social democracy to abolish a super gross wage. I would point out that in 2012 a law was passed which set the calculation of gross wages at a rate of 19 per cent with effect to 1. 1. 2015. Although this law had been passed and became a valid part of the rule of law and waited only for its effectiveness, members of YES and ČSSD in love with the construction of a supergross wage did not allow this effectiveness to come to an end and abolished the law before it became effective. So we have a super gross wage on, even to 1. 1. 2015 wasn't supposed to be that way anymore. And so from 1. 1. 2015 is the few hundred boaters in the situation in which they are under a double taxation agreement concluded by the Czechoslovak Republic with the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Contracts against double taxation are concluded in accordance with the OECD standard, but there is a variety of interpretations. It rarely does, but it does. I have some fresh cases even from Bavaria. The Bavarian financial authorities have started to interpret some situations differently, and I think we will soon see several Czech citizens taking the risk of double taxation - although there is a long-term treaty against double taxation. Always, because it's a treaty and on both sides, there's a contractual will, so it's always the good will. Mr Foldyna proposal, as it was originally put forward, was, with all due respect, frankly, unusable. He was worked on by experts from the Ministry of Finance in good faith. It was an honor to be a part of it, too. I think that none of us can say that what lies before us right now is the perfect work of tax legislation, but it is a sufficient draft for the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic and the Financial Administration of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to agree so that these people are not discriminated against. After all, the Ministry of Finance's position, when we voted on it, was neutral, was not negative. Let's not be more papal than the Pope! It's not perfect, but it's a chance for a few hundred clearly discriminated people. I recommend that we maintain our position and approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u9	Thank you and now, with Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact, because we are already in the debate, and then Mr Fridrich, if Mr Stanjura is not with priority rights. No, okay. Mr. Ferjenčík, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to ask the Minister about the position of the Ministry in the debate, so that we could ask further questions, because the law was adopted in the wording of the amendment by my colleague Fridrich and I suspect with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. So I was wondering if he'd agree to the Senate's reservations or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Let's see if the secretary responds. I therefore now ask Mr Fridrich in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this issue, although much has already been said here before me. I am convinced - I will not go into the history of how it came about, or we have already discussed why this change is being made. But I am convinced that the Senate misinterpreted the amendment, virtually. put an disproportionate emphasis on the possibility that the amendment would also affect payers other than the intended shippers in the Kingdom of the Netherlands. [[15.00 hours]] The amendment does not in any way apply and cannot apply to foreign nationals who are employed by an employer in the territory of the Czech Republic in so-called the main employment, and that wasn't even intended. There is only one place within the European Union to choose social and health insurance. Employees-aliens in the Czech Republic is social and health insurance collided by the employer and paid to the Czech Social Security Administration, respectively. to the health insurance company. In the Czech Republic, this percentage represents 34 percent. The purpose of the amendment is certainly not to examine the rate of contributions abroad, as presented by the Senate in its negative opinion. The amendment does not concern whether the Czech Republic works Němec, Polák, Slovák. The Czech employer will always pay a rate of 34 percent for it, so a foreigner working in the Czech Republic pays social and health according to Czech rates and tax on income from supergross wages according to our laws. The amendment applies exclusively to Czech workers working abroad and taxes on income taxes in the Czech Republic, and this is known for those mentioned unfortunate shippers, when in Article 16 of the international agreement concluded between the Czech Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the exception in point 3 is that only the shippers of the tax income according to their place of residence. This is therefore the calculation of the supergross wage in the same way as the employees working with the employer in the Czech Republic, but at the rate that the Czech citizen took abroad with the foreign employer. That fact shall be demonstrated by the staff member by a certificate issued to him either by his employer or by the tax administrator concerned. The administrative demands of this measure will not be high. Perhaps I would mention that the conclusion made by the Senate on the amendment in question may, to a lesser extent, concern foreign nationals who work both at their place of residence and occasionally - and this must be stressed - occasionally have income from dependent activities in the Czech Republic. When we were thinking about who it might be theoretically, we were attacked by university educators who lecture both in the Czech Republic and in Slovakia. But I'd like to specify here, so as to be clear, what we're talking about, the amount of tax costs. Tax base in Slovakia or tax payment of social and health insurance is 35.2 %, in the Czech Republic 34 %, i.e. the difference is 1.2%. If we look at the other countries of the European Union, given that the Czech Republic has basically one of the highest tax burdens in the EU, then in Austria, Poland, it's about 20 percent, so even these people would make money on this amendment. In summary. The Chamber of Deputies adopted by the amendment to the Income Tax Act governing the text of § 6 para. 13 of the cited law, which was rejected by the Senate, does not affect foreign nationals working with Czech employers who are in the so-called the main employment relationship. I believe that the risk of some confusion or complexity of the amendment in question is acceptable given how a significant part of the Czech population abroad will help this amendment. That is why I propose that you vote in favour of the re-acceptance of this amendment, and that the Senate's negative position is thus overruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, too. And now I'm going to read the note. Mr Vondrák apologizes to us because of negotiations in the electoral region. Now, with the Prime Minister's priority right, she will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Briefly. Ministry of Finance, respectively. by my mouth, he takes a neutral position on the proposal. As far as the double taxation treaty is concerned, she is really old, she was somewhere from 1975, in 2012 the protocols were refined. And we've been trying to negotiate a treaty with the Netherlands for years. But if you want to renegotiate the contract, you have to sort of sit down at the negotiating table and the other side has to want to deal with you. Not because of the shipers, we have many other reasons why we would like to renegotiate the contract, and at this point we are failing. So that's why we didn't renegotiate it. But I don't think the issue of mariners would be the crucial reason why we would renegotiate it. I have been very detailed in this subject. The problem, if you are interested in him, is that our Czech shippers must file tax returns according to where they have so-called. domicil, i.e. center of permanent interests, and they have this in the Czech Republic. And the problem arose by intensifying the exchange of information in 2016 and actually the Czech financial authorities received information that many of them work on ships and do not file tax returns. So that's how this whole carousel of trouble came about. We've been very active in this, helping them deal with cases where they filed tax returns in Holland, those cases are models and every case of their kind. They're still texting me. I just got a letter from a boatman today, and we're still dealing with their problems. We've established a waiting system, given them a chance to file additional confessions, I think, the Financial Administration, we've introduced a penalty waiver system. But you can't forgive taxes, there's no legal authority for that. As far as this proposal is concerned, I am taking a neutral position. I certainly agree that, as far as this international element is concerned, a certain degree of inaccuracy can always be given. And I would like to say that the proposed legislation, which is the subject of this proposal, makes it possible for a different method to determine the income tax base of the dependent activity to be determined. a super gross wage for taxpayers of income tax on dependent activities, for which - and this is the essence - public insurance is governed by the legislation of another Member State of the European Union. The supergross wage would therefore not be made up of Czech employer insurance, because it does not actually include there, but foreign insurance of the same kind. I would like to point out - and therefore my position is neutral - that the proposal always has certain disadvantages. This adjustment may not always be beneficial for the taxpayers it affects. And I want to stress that it will not only be for boaters, we have a whole range of other professions of Czech citizens who also work in Holland. In particular, it will not be advantageous if the employer's premiums abroad exceed what is being paid in the Czech Republic. This legislation has been effective for some time after the introduction of a supergross wage, but it has worked with quite considerable complications. Therefore, it can be expected that these complications may arise again. Thus, the amount of such foreign insurance was not commonly known to the domestic employer as it is different, higher, lower than that of domestic public insurance. And it was difficult - and now I draw from the experience of the time when this legislation existed - to determine whether it was a compulsory system at all, because there is no such thing as in some countries. compulsory public health insurance. In view of this, I have taken a neutral position. I understand the problem, but of course I also draw attention to these shortcomings that may occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, too. And now, then, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. It is quite simple for me to speak, I did not support the law in the Chamber of Deputies. However, the reasons put forward by the senator and the Senate as a whole are quite serious. No one is questioning the problem of the several hundred sailors we want to solve, but the solution that is on the table can bring a problem to several hundreds or thousands of companies. And while the Minister has just given a neutral position on the Senate proposal, it can be said that I have understood that the senators are actually right because he says that the complications are imminent. Exactly what the senator was talking about, how to actually find out how it is in another state, how to do it or not to do it. [[15.10 hours]] I think that it is much more sensible to reject the bill, not to cause more confusion for hundreds of other entrepreneurs, and to continue to look for other solutions that could solve this special group of discriminated taxpayers - to solve their problem with income tax. By adopting this bill, perhaps we will help two, three hundred sailors, that is certainly a good thing, on the other hand, the unintended effect could be much worse, and within a year and within a day, we will be dealing with an amendment that will eliminate what we would have done today by voting for this bill. [[Noise in the hall.]] I think we agree, and so did the senator, in that the problem needs to be solved, only the senators have warned us that the proposed solution will create other problems, much worse. We can nod to this, but the State and the Financial Administration have a much longer period than an entrepreneur who must decide at the latest on the 10th, when he counts wages. And then the Financial Administration has at least three years to say whether he did it right or wrong. I don't know if we should burden the Treasury with any information obligations, how to get the rates to individual employers, whether it's mandatory, voluntary, what the rates are. I think there's a lot of problems. The senator's appearance was rather short, but I think he said the essentials, the main reasons. And the reason is not that we don't want to solve the problem. I would recommend that we follow common sense, if I paraphrase my colleague, Mr Kalousek, to be more papal than the Pope, I do not know who the Pope is at the moment, because adopting a bad law that will create new problems to remove some partial problems does not seem to me to be the proper procedure of the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. So it is much more reasonable if we reject the amendment and ask the Minister to try not to come up with a parliamentary proposal, but with a government solution in some way that would help these particular people and not burden the others with any confusion or new bureaucracy. It is clear that it will not be easy to negotiate a new tax treaty with the Netherlands, because when we talk about tax havens, the Netherlands falls very often outside exotic countries. I think it's very common in the public debate. Many Czech companies have their headquarters there too, nothing surprising or secret. If the contract is better for the Netherlands than for the Czech Republic, it is very difficult to convince the partner to change the contract. However, I think that, thanks to the fact that we are together in the EU, we have some leverage and it can be replaced for something else. So our club's recommendation: let's support the senators' position, they're right, they don't want to increase the uncertainty of those who do business and employ, for example, foreign workers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. At the moment, I do not have any more in the debate. I'm asking if anyone's still checking in from the scene at this point. Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u18	You know, I often hear what you're gonna do about the fact that they have so low taxes in Holland, they have low taxes in Ireland. How are you going to force national legislation to set its taxes in any way? Can somebody make us, too? He can't. It is solely the right of this Parliament. And if a treaty was negotiated with the Netherlands, I would like to point out that the problem, and I was really very devoted to it, very devoted to it, I have never been so devoted to any group of taxpayers as sailors, and I do not regret that time, it was very interesting to hear their stories. But let's remember one thing - there is progressive taxation. That means it's from 8 percent, I don't know, now don't grab my word, up to 35, up to 45 by the amount. And sailors who have a salary of around EUR 3,000, which is a low salary, pay a tax of 8 percent. We have 15, of course it's super gross, so it's over 20 percent, so logically that's the problem that they would want to pay the tax in the Netherlands because they would have 8 percent. But we don't just have boaters, we have college educators, we have flyers that belong to a high-income group, and again, if we renegotiate a contract for boaters, they'll pay 35 or 40. We don't want that. So I just don't want to promise the Tessian apples that the contract, if we renegotiate it, will solve the ship's problem. It's a pretty complicated problem. So we tried to solve these cases rather, Financial Administration, ad hoc, every case of its kind, we even have a boatman where we started as the Ministry of Finance arguing proceedings, he supplied all the papers and actually we found that he had it miscounted, it's complicated, it counts as part of the premium, the tax should pay here, insurance there, and they refunded him about 3,000 euros. So we've really, the Financial Administration, we've assessed every case, this is the competence of the Ministry again, the negotiation process, really, what we could have done, we've done. But we couldn't forgive the tax. The Minister of Finance doesn't even have that competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too. Now I have two factual points here. So, first Mr Stanjura, then Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u20	For the record, I didn't want us to force other states to raise taxes. On the contrary, the way is to reduce taxes in our country. We are proposing this on a regular basis, and at point 7, we will certainly be able to do so when we vote on it. I am pleased that the Minister has described the negatives of progressive taxation with such colorfulness and with the life experience of mariners. That's what we're gonna talk about. So let us learn from this, let us have a flat tax, let us have low and simple taxes, and other Member States of the European Union will have a problem. It is human nature that the taxpayer wants to pay the lowest possible tax. It's not surprising, I don't know anyone who would propose higher taxes to himself, and he's excited about it when the state raises taxes. I told you to find another solution. I didn't say the solution was a new contract. I responded to your speech, Madam Secretary, you said it wasn't easy with them. And that's what I understand. And I do not think that this is a simple task and that in a month or two we are able to have a new treaty with the Netherlands. That's for sure. But here we are before another problem. Here, trying to help someone, we're making someone else's problem. And that, in our opinion, but also the opinion of the Senate as the second Chamber of Parliament, is not the right procedure. That's what we're debating today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping time. And now, please, Mr Kalousek, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u22	In the first part, I was the second. I wanted to tell the Minister that, of course, we cannot force either the Kingdom of the Netherlands or Ireland to have other taxes, but nothing prevents us from having them lower than us. In this respect, we will have an exceptional opportunity to do so, especially in the case of those taxes that should have been lower from 1 January 2015 or 1 January 2016, but the existing coalition has kept them at that level and has basically been raising taxes since then. As for the complicated situation that could theoretically arise, I don't think so, but I don't want to say that I'm an expert, but it could only occur in our jurisdiction. And it's always kind of a thing of interpretation. That's why I said let's not be more papal than the Pope. If we help those hundreds of sailors with the Dutch financial administration, and the question of our own interpretation, how to deal with the situation of some companies, or individuals who do business with us and in Holland, there can be no problems with a little goodwill. If they had to happen, the Ministry of Finance could not give a neutral opinion. Unless a neutral position is total alibiism. But I don't believe that. I think it was premeditated neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. At this point, I do not have any factual remarks or applications for the debate, so I will ask again if anyone else is reporting for the debate from the point of view. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Senator? [[Yes.]] Is the plaintiff here? It is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. I think it came from this debate that we all really want to deal with the situation of the shipmen, but we are trying not to hurt other professions. I think the Minister here has described the reasons that might arise in the event of the adoption of the amendment to this law exactly. This issue is also quite difficult for tax advisors. That is why we have really contacted the Chamber of Tax Advisors, those people who are in charge of this issue. And they more or less said the same reasons that were raised here by the Minister, and the recommendation was clearly not to accept this amendment because it would cause complications for other professions and others. The Chamber of Tax Advisors even recommended that it might be appropriate to know the opinion of the Financial Administration, so how it would be able to control this situation without any major problems if this amendment was adopted. So I really don't think that's a political thing. It's a thing of substance. And now it's up to you to really make a situation that doesn't do more harm than it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, too. I'll ask again if the plaintiff wants to speak with the final word. He doesn't want to. In that case, we have exhausted the final words and will proceed to the vote under Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. I will set up a majority here and make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, pursuant to House Press 80/6." I've logged the application for check-out, so I'm checking you all out. I'm gonna go get some co-workers from the lobby. I'll wait for the number of applicants to settle. Members are still coming. I will therefore repeat that we will vote on the approval of the bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, and that we will overvote the Senate's veto, i.e. 101 votes are needed. I think that the number of Members present has become stable for us. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 15, 172 Members and Members of Parliament, for 123, against 29. The motion was accepted. I note that the bill has been approved and accepted. That's what we've come to terms with this point. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Senator. I'm opening another point.
