ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u1	30. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws / House Print 79/ - First Reading The Minister remains in place, and before I give the floor to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, who will submit a proposal under the authority of the Government, I will ask Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to take the floor at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for first reading. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a rather difficult previous point, I think we should have something less controversial. It is a minor amendment to the Criminal Code, which aims to ensure that we do not walk here every week with another amendment, to correct our criminal law so that it is in full compliance with the various international and European obligations which the Czech Republic has accepted. In this batch, we deal with three such areas. The first is the issue of money laundering and terrorist financing, when the committee of experts, called. MONEYVAL, within the fourth round of the evaluation, had some, I must say, strong enough, recommendations to reformulate some of the facts in order to better intervene against these crimes, so this is being done. Furthermore, we are preparing our criminal law to ratify the treaty that we have signed, the Council of Europe on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, so-called. The Istanbul Convention, where we are very late from that international point of view with the ratification of this Convention, although I believe or believe that our state, our civilization, is fully in line with the objectives of this Convention, but we need to formally introduce some crimes and some protection. And last but not least, we still need to implement Directive 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u3	Minister, I will also interrupt you and ask for the peace of the House. I think it is possible to hear the Prime Minister's opening words in peace. If you are discussing another problem, please let the Minister have a dignified environment for his presentation. Thank you. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will learn from this and try to be even more brief. Directive on the fight against terrorism, where in particular we extend criminal sanctions called. foreign fighters or cyberterrorism. The transposition period for this Directive expires on 8 September 2018. Support, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u5	I thank the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to present his report. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, allow me to present a report on the Government Bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws. The submitted material aims to respond to the requirements of the international community, which the Czech Republic has undertaken to meet, or is going to, by ratifying the relevant conventions and its membership in the European Union. These requirements relate to a total of six thematic headings: money laundering, violence against women and domestic violence, terrorism, obstruction of justice, bribery and, last but not least, accelerated storage of data stored in a computer system or on a means of information for criminal proceedings. The proposed draft law therefore amends, completely abolishes and replaces or supplements the criminal code, the criminal code and some other laws, as set out in the various parts of this House's press. The petitioner is led by an effort, or rather an obligation to bring our criminal legislation into line with international law and European Union law, respectively. implement EU legislation into the legal order of the Czech Republic. This is illustrated by the list of international treaties and regulations of the European Union affecting the above mentioned areas, which have been identified under the draft law. And that it's not the last area, it's more than obvious. The first objective of the proposed amendment is to address the legislative shortcomings identified by the Committee of Experts on the Evaluation of Measures against Money Laundering and terrorist Financing, known as MONEYVAL, within the fourth round of the evaluation. I note that this evaluation report was adopted at the 35th plenary session held on 11 to 14 April 2011. The Ministry of Justice tried to defend the existing legal situation and the ability of the Czech Republic to prosecute this kind of crime to the committee's evaluators during their official visit to the Czech Republic. However, the assessors were not satisfied with the explanation of the legislation supported by case law and professional literature, they considered the claims to be inadequately substantiated by practice and specific judicacies, as the number and severity of cases prosecuted in the Czech Republic were found to be low during the evaluation. They have made it quite clear that recommendations on the criminal regulation of money laundering need to be met very quickly. Statistics thus triumphed over factual arguments. [[Noise in the hall.]] The petitioner therefore submits a material stating that the current legislation on money laundering and the related fight against terrorist financing in the Code of Criminal Procedure does not fully correspond to the arrangements contained in international treaties, to which the Czech Republic is also party, and that is why this amendment has been adopted. Following the model of international agreements, the definition of the criminal code on the legalisation of the definition of the instrument of crime and the proceeds of crime is to be supplemented. It is also pointed out that in many cases it is very difficult to criminalise certain cases of sophisticated property crime, where the fragmentation of criminal penalties of direct and indirect proceeds from crime can serve as an example. For this reason, it is proposed to completely repeal Sections 214 and 215 of the Criminal Code, to commit shares and shares of negligence, and basically to incorporate these facts into criminal offences pursuant to Sections 216 and 217 of the Criminal Code, to legalise the proceeds of crime and to legalise the proceeds of crime from negligence. Paragraph 216a is also newly introduced, a special provision on punishment. For this area, the Government's proposal provides for a transitional provision that Section 163 of the Criminal Code, effective before the date on which this law was acquired, will apply to criminal prosecutions for crimes of shares and shares of negligence. However, I would like to say that the shortcomings that certainly exist in this area of crime can be seen more than in legislative terms in application terms, particularly in the difficulty of proving the subjective aspects of legalisation crime and also the traceability of revenues that are hidden abroad, where there is no one, or, diplomatically speaking, effective judicial cooperation. The traces are often obliterated and the yield flow cannot be traced or consumed. The individual problem, but more and more up-to-date, is the staff deficit, or even the undersized specialized police authorities. I prefer to keep quiet about the lack of professional experience of some police officers, as well as prosecutors and judges in relation to the implementation of the financial investigation for the purposes of criminal proceedings. Who understands the issue knows what I'm talking about. In response to other headings based on international conventions that I mentioned at the beginning of the intelligence report, whether ratified or pending ratification, the Ministry of Justice presents some partial extensions of criminal repression, such as. the introduction of a new offence pursuant to Section 347a called obstruction of justice or the extension of the offence of introduction pursuant to Section 172 of the Criminal Code. Here I expect a rather broad debate on committees. [[18.30 hours]] Another important overall amendment is the fight against terrorism. The proposal seeks to implement the European Parliament's directive on cyber-attack negotiations with specific terrorist intent. We have a deadline until September 8th of this year. In addition to the requirements of international documents, however, there is also an effort to adjust travel to the Czech Republic with specific terrorist intent. Organizers, guides and helpers should also be affected. To date, only travelling is being affected. Here, too, a detailed analysis and justification is presented in the explanatory memorandum. In the field of anti-corruption measures in response to the requirements of international law, e.g. The UN Convention against Corruption is presented to extend the criminal penalty for acts of indirect promise, offer or confer an unjustified advantage. The facts of the bribery offences referred to in Part 3 of Title 9 are therefore supplemented in such a way that the acts referred to above can be subordinate to those offences. The amendments to the Criminal Code first respond to the amendment of the Criminal Code due to the interrelationship of these legislation, and very rightly there are also proposals based on the parliamentary proposal, which is conducted in the Chamber of Deputies as House press number 70. The proposals are essentially identical and the need to discuss this House's press no. 70. Furthermore, it is proposed to reintroduce the data storage order unchanged for the period specified in the order and the order to allow access to other persons to the data. In this case, it is the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on Computer Crime. In other points of the amendment of the Criminal Code, it is proposed to tighten up certain procedural situations, which are now causing confusion in application practice. It goes for example. on the resolution of the bias of the Supreme Court judge, the possibility of representing the associate's lawyer when taking a look at the file in cases in which otherwise the counsel's representation by the associate is prohibited, or the clarification of the moment when the claim for cancellation or limitation of the claim of the injured party may be filed. The proposed amendment amends other laws, namely the Act on Public Collections, the Act on Electrical Communications, the Act on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, the Public Registers of Legal and Individual Persons and the Registration of Trust Funds, as well as the Act on Public Procurement, in response to the amendment to the Criminal Code. In the explanatory memorandum, the draft law is assessed as consistent with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, when it is particularly drawn attention to respect for Article 39 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in which there is a reservation of the law for defining what acts are a criminal offence and what punishment or other damage to rights or property can be imposed on its commission. At the same time, it is stated that the case law of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights is respected. In addition to the necessary harmonisation of substantive criminal law with international standards, which is ultimately an obligation under Article 1 (1) of the Treaty. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic can be called for positively by the fact that it is responding to the latest trends in criminal penalties, which may contribute to the financing of international terrorism. Next, criminalisation of the negotiations, which has corrupt potential, is strengthened, which can also be welcomed. It remains to be noted that these positive effects, despite further expansion of criminal repression, which can be considered to be very mild, prevail. The impact of the proposed amendment on the state budget is assessed by the petitioner as low, in the order of hundreds of thousands, due primarily to the necessary change in judicial systems and the statistical and accounting changes made by the Police of the Czech Republic and the judiciary in the introduction of a new institute of data retention order. The effectiveness of the act submitted shall be proposed on the first day of the second calendar month following its publication. For the reasons set out above, the draft law in question can be regarded as quite positive and recommended for discussion in the committees. The guarantee committee should be a committee of constitutional law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u7	Thank you and I am opening up a general debate in which Mr Benda is signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u8	Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has told us how a simple amendment, which means nothing at all, will pass through this House without any problems and will reduce its speech to a minimum. Then I would like to point out that this is not a simple amendment that means nothing at all. It means very fundamental changes in the Czech legal system and I am afraid that it cannot pass through this House without knowing. In addition to the fact that the Ministry has owed us a new penal code for about three years and instead introduces individual partial measures, which will then appear to be implemented into a new penal code instead of bringing about a general concept, I am expressing three serious reservations. The first reservation is that this bill is to be a sign of ratification of the Istanbul Convention. I consider the Istanbul Convention a fundamental mistake, a victory... now how to use a decent, decent word to not be a wild gender, and a very, very dangerous... wild gender. Just these modern things... a very dangerous thing, and I think it is very wrong for us to start implementing it before we had a chance to discuss and approve it in this Chamber of Deputies. That's the first note. Note two... But here, only some very small parts are shown just because the explanatory statement says that this is a foretaste of the approval of the Istanbul Convention, so I say that I will not vote in favour of the Istanbul Convention. The second remark, which I consider to be much more fundamental, is, however, the amendment to the Criminal Code and then to the Act on International Cooperation, judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which governs the loss, destruction or modification of data which has been interpreted so far, seems to have worked, now it is written as a new provision of the Criminal Code, then also reflected in the international cooperation, where it is assumed that the police authority - not the court, not the prosecutor, even if they are so nicely aligned, it is a court, in the preparatory proceedings of the prosecutor, but when it happens not to be possible, it is a police authority - can order the person who holds the data or has them under his control to keep such data unchanged for the time specified in the order and take the necessary measures not to make available information about the fact that it has been ordered to store the data. I think that this in today's computer-connected world is absolutely nothing trivial and simple, that this is the thing that we are supposed to talk about, we have to say under what conditions, when we can say that with these data often the person who holds them is not, of course, the owner of them, sometimes even unable to manage them so that they cannot be interfered with, these are considerations that I think are completely outside the reality of today's online world. But to say that it can also be done by a police authority, it seems to me at least to me that there should be a big discussion about whether this is right or not. The last thing I think is absolutely essential. These are correctable questions. The last thing I consider to be absolutely essential is 347a, obstruction of justice. I suppose the Minister expected me to come forward on this matter, it almost seems to me that he has taken attorneys as his main target of the war during this parliamentary term, which will have to be twisted and intervened. [[18.40 hours]] But if the appeals in the explanatory memorandum refer to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal, and what needs to be punished in the submission of evidence before the International Court of Justice under the Rome Statute, and it tries to deduce the criminality of certain things in the Czech Republic, I consider it completely absurd. Absolutely pointless! There is indeed a special court that actually judges war crimes and crimes against humanity. And because he's unable to judge some other things that might be related to it, he's asking countries to do so when someone before him is testifying and lying or presenting false evidence so that he can be affected by that country. Of course, we have false testimony, false knowledge, and other things in today's criminal law. But we never ordered it to all those involved in criminal proceedings. For example, the accused could always use everything to defend himself. Everything! Even because he was accused and could defend himself with the reasoning that led him, and he could make up, he could lie, he couldn't testify. All of a sudden we say it's a felony? Anyone who presents such evidence that he knows - by the way, we are putting those lawyers in the most difficult situation, because it is not just a criminal trial, it is, of course, also a civil trial. The lawyer is not able to review the evidence given to him by his client, he is obliged to follow the client's instructions, and then he will prove to the law enforcement authorities whether he knew or did not know that the evidence given to him by the client and said to him: use this note against the counterparty, for example in civil proceedings. And will there be charges of obstruction of justice? Will there be any charges against the person who presented the evidence to the court? Which would be the lawyer. And he's gonna have to prove he didn't know the evidence was fake. I just think it's extremely dangerous. I don't think there's any way that the relationship to criminal proceedings is resolved. There's no way a relationship is solved... [[Mr Válková is speaking with Minister Pelikán at the intelligence table.]] The Ministers of Justice shall consult. I'm glad I got them at least confused and forced them to consult. The relationship to the right of defence is not resolved according to the defendant's own considerations. I don't think he's solved at all. And I think it can lead to big problems. And there's no solution to the relationship to representation, whether in criminal or civil proceedings, to the submission of evidence by the person who didn't produce the evidence. And I think it's completely unnecessary, that this is really just on purpose, because I consider calling on the statute of the Roman tribunal in terms of testimony before our court to be a complete nonsense. There we may have to consider as one who is testifying before the Roman Tribunal, where by the way from the Czech Republic perhaps still... I don't remember anyone testifying, but maybe one day they will. But we don't have to use it for trial before our courts. I recommend that we order the proposal, of course. But I'm pointing out the problems that are hiding in it. And I say that in this text of obstruction of justice, I could not raise my hand for this proposal in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u9	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. The Minister is interested in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond very briefly to my colleague Benda. When I said it was less controversial and much simpler, I didn't mean it wouldn't be controversial at all. And I expected to hear from my colleague Benda. I did. Everything's fine. [[With a smile.]] All I'm going to say is obstruction of justice, and we're going to discuss the rest on the committee. It's a thing that I'm sure deserves a debate there. I don't want to lower it. It's just an intervention in criminal law. And criminal law is never meaningless or negative. That, of course, is true. As far as obstruction of justice is concerned, if we referred to the status of the Roman tribunal, for example, so that we can show that it is something that is regarded by the international community as standard, let's say, not exceptional, surprising. It's definitely not supposed to restrict the normal activities of lawyers. I myself am an attorney, and I look forward to returning to this beautiful profession. But there must be a limit to this activity. And in our opinion, that is precisely what is stated in that provision, and that is the moment when the lawyer consciously and intentionally - and I underline that, he does not really have an obligation, and not even the right to examine the truth of what someone is telling him, what the client is telling him. But if he knows, and yet deliberately tries to mislead the court and tries to mislead him by presenting false evidence - and now it is necessary to stress that it is not the defendant's speech, because he has a genuinely guaranteed right to lie to his defense, if he considers it appropriate - so the submission of such false evidence as falsified expert opinions or forged leads etc., is indeed a place where I believe it is behind the edge of the right defense and it is something that can make criminal proceedings very difficult, and unfortunately we are encountering it. And as the area of photomontage progresses today, for example, it is now also video montage, so we may be meeting more and more often with people who will be able to pay for it. And it needs to be prevented. Everything for me. I'm sure we'll discuss it in the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u11	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. There was no motion for a return or rejection, so we will deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Would someone else please suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So we can proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 104, 164 Members signed in for 145, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to discuss the next committee? Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would suggest a commandment to the Defence Committee and to the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-011-030.u13	Yes. We will therefore vote on this proposal. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for this proposal to be ordered for discussion by the Defence Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Checkout request.]] Oh, sorry. So the vote is adjourned, I declare invalid. I'm signing you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. I remind you that we will now vote on the commandment to discuss the defence committee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 106, 152 Members signed in, for 35, against 68. The motion was not accepted. [[18.50 hours]] We will now vote on the Commandment of the Security Committee. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 107, 154 Members registered, for 36, against 80. The motion was not accepted. I note that this proposal has not been directed to the next committee for discussion. I'm done discussing this point. It's 18.51... I'm asking the club presidents if they wish to open negotiations on the next item that we interrupt at 7:00 p.m., or end today's meeting... Okay. There is an interest in starting this point. I'll take that interest. So I'm starting a point.
