ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u1	31. Proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik, Miloslava Vostrá, Stanislav Grospič and Květa Matušovská on the issue of the Act on the abolition of Act No. 99/2000 Sb., on the prohibition of supply for the Búšehr nuclear power plant /house printing 112/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 This proposal was originally submitted under the scheme of Section 90 and was raised against it by the veto of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. The point was interrupted on Wednesday 18. 4. We will now continue the general debate. At the moment, no one is in writing in the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. I see no one, in which case I end the general debate. [[Messenger. Stanjura speaks outside the microphone with some Members.]] So I have a point here that a rejection has been proposed. Isn't that right? [[An application from the diaper.]] If there is no objection, I would, of course, allow a colleague to speak, I did not register him. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. I'm sorry. I closed the general debate prematurely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to respond to several statements by President Filip, which he repeatedly mentioned before us yesterday and two days ago in connection with the discussion of Syria's events and, on the one hand, this bill in relation to Iran. I think we're in a sensitive time today. We are in the year of the eight, when we remember the more famous events of our history, but also infamous. The year is commemorated in 1918. I suppose in October we will be very dignified to commemorate the emergence of our statehood or the restoration of our statehood. The year is commemorated in 1938. It was also mentioned in the context of the security forces of February 1948 and it is also recalled the unfortunate experience of August 1968. And I would like to quote for you how President Filip presented that part of the misinterpretation of our history, and I repeat again, very sensitive in this very eighth year, August 1968. I have already warned once or twice here that we are over-information at a time, but that the more we discuss all the problems today, the more we have to build up, and we have to level up the information, we have to build on disinformation and various twists, the more so that they have a relationship with our history and are used to support projects, the foreign policy business of projects in relation to problematic countries such as Iran or Syria today. So I would like to quote to my colleague Filip from the tapestry: "Blind faith led us to Munich 1938, March 15, 1939, and it also led us to the fact that in 1968 we did not have that sense of sovereignty anymore and we had to have foreign soldiers here. " This is a very special formulation of what remains most in our memory, because it has not happened again so long ago, which very strongly affects our experience of political, historical, civil, and this is the occupation of the then friendly armies. The Czechoslovak Socialist Republic was part of the Warsaw Pact, when the Communist Party failed to master its own internal transformation, the liberalisation of the system, led Czechoslovakia to the Soviet army and other armies of the Soviet Pact occupying Czechoslovakia. The occupation lasted not only until November 1989, but until mid-1991. To this day we count the dead, who were not only the result of the direct entry of the troops, or the occupation, the arrival of tanks, planes and half a million soldiers, but also of every exit of the Soviet army from the temporary posts where the Soviet army was. [[9.10 hours]] If my colleague Filip compares, and I quote this again from the debate on Iran, "and either we will blindly trust our allies and may turn out to be like 1938 or 1939," I think it is necessary to say that 1968 was definitely not a reduction in the sense of sovereignty, but the occupation of a then friendly country, a violation of all international standards. And I think that this is certainly not part of the debate that has its basis in terms of promoting undemocratic theocratic regimes and complicating the situation that is in the Middle East region. And so it is necessary to sweep away from its own threshold and say this experience, which, of course, is experience not only for the Czech and Slovak public, but also for the Communist Party, although the Communist Party avoids it today, and very strangely, instead of calling it true names, the real name that it was occupation, as from time to time the Communist leaders succeeded after 1989, under the enormous social pressure of political and social change, so today we have that the sense of sovereignty has been reduced. I think it's a thrown glove, that it's an insult to all of us, especially those who remember this time, who were surprised and were surprised that this is possible, even in the community we know much better than we knew at the time. Furthermore, I would mention one further link that follows to some extent, and how the Communist regime approached Iran, and I must say also Iraq, because there was a special double standard - I remind the Iranian-Iraq conflict. Therefore, I consider the support of this bill by these historical parallels, the shifted meanings and the misinformation to be wrong, and that is why I am here as well. It should be noted that the communist regime, to some extent without scruples, supported, of course, on the basis of questions and permission of the Soviet Union, both sides of war. When the very complex, very serious and very bloody conflict between Iraq and Iran took place in the 1980s, Czechoslovakia supplied weapons and weapons systems to both of these states. Although Iraq preferred for certain reasons, even though Saddám Husajn's regime was not in favour of Iraqi communists, many of them were murdered, executed and expelled from Iraq and ended up in Czechoslovakia, on the other hand, supported the Iranian regime to a lesser extent. Although some military projects, the nature of which, by the way, we do not know to this day, and the state did not disclose all the documents after 1989, and today historians do not have access to it, or we do not know to this day what Czechoslovakia was involved in, but it must be recalled that Czechoslovakia was by no means a peacemaker, it certainly did not support a peaceful solution, communist Czechoslovakia before 1989 was actually involved in arming and supporting the military capacity of these two states, which were competing for the Middle East at that time. And the crisis and the number of deaths on both sides is not necessary, I think, to remind you. I think that must be said, that was missing here yesterday. I don't think we should approach the vote without it. It is necessary to convey these conventions here, especially those conventions that mean - and I do not understand why this is happening, or I understand it from a political point of view, but from a factual point of view I strongly reject it - the reduction and disinformation of our own history, of what has been happening here. That is what must be opposed to. Just August 1968 was an occupation, we all remember it well and it is not possible to formulate it in support of some export article into a risky region by untruths about our own history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Do I ask Mrs Němcová - factual or proper? There is a written application by Mr Lipavský, then an application from Mrs Němcová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would like to propose that we refer this standard to three committees to discuss this in order to comment on this. Firstly, I believe that the Defence Committee should discuss this when it comes to banning the export and production of nuclear energy and potential nuclear weapons. Secondly, I believe that this is a question for the Security Committee. The important thing that we should consider is that this law was adopted before we joined the European Union, so I propose that the Committee on European Affairs discuss it as well. We know very well that Iran is currently part of international negotiations. There is an agreement with China, with America, with the European Union. This means that the Committee on European Affairs should also comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u5	Thank you. We will discuss the commandments of the committees at the right moment of the first reading. Now, please, Madame Němcová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u6	Good morning, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to enter into this debate with a few comments on the way of this bill by the Chamber of Deputies. I guess we have to start in 2000. This was the year when during the reign of then Prime Minister Miloš Zeman, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a bill that forbade the development of any components that could strengthen the nuclear arsenal, but also in the sense of the conquest of the nuclear power plant in Bušehr, Iran, forbade any exports of these components. The Chamber of Deputies then - I recall that it was in 2000, I think it was some time in March, now I do not have the date exactly - it was decided on in the so-called accelerated negotiations. The meeting was two days, I think on 7th and 8th March. Finally, this bill was adopted in the accelerated negotiations. I want to say as a seed bead that there are two Members from the then Civic Democratic Party Club, my honored colleague Marek Benda and I, and we both voted in favour of the export ban at the time, so we supported the government of Miloš Zeman in this meaning of the word, in this particular law. In order to provide the information in full, then the Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia voted against this bill, but there were also some social democrats who were here today and then supported the law, i.e. the ban on exports. The question is, how are they going to deal with this thing today? You can find the votes. It is, I think, March 8, 2000, and it is the number 36 vote, where you can easily find an overview of who stood up to the question at that time. That was the beginning. And the sequel - I'll get back to the beginning. So it turns out that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has supported Iran from the very beginning regardless of current developments in this country, it has supported groups that are still proving to be a threat to the Western Community today, especially to Israel, but also to Europe, as some current leaders of Iran express themselves. [[9.20 hours]] The continuation of this matter was so far the last in 2014, when the Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia again submitted the proposal to abolish this embargo, this law, Act No. 99/2000 Coll., and this took place from the time of submission in the last parliamentary term, i.e. during the reign of the coalition of Social Democrats, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement, it lasted from 11 June 2014 to 2. 12. 2016. Well, more than two years. The first and second reading took place and in the third reading this bill, i.e. 2. 12. 2016, The Chamber of Deputies refused. I will refer you again to the vote - it is a third-reading vote 2. 12. 2016, it is the vote number one-three - so that those members of the then Chamber of Deputies of the ANO movement who voted against this proposal by the Communist Party would have the opportunity to compare their positions at the time and today. The Civil Democratic Party voted against this proposal. It's important to mention one thing. In 2014, after this proposal was submitted, the Government of the Social Democrats, YES and KDU-ČSL gave a negative opinion on the proposal. A negative opinion, which has five points, of which I think the last, fifth point is important. Let me quote some conclusions from him. I therefore quote: The Government notes, with the knowledge of the above, that the repeal of Act No. 99/2000 Sb. From a foreign policy point of view, it would be a negative signal to the international community - I repeat: from a foreign policy point of view it would be a negative signal to the international community - because Iran's nuclear programme is not even currently completely without controversy. In this context, the government considers the prohibition of any share of Czech companies in the construction, modernisation or operation of the power plant to continue to be justified. It is therefore worth noting that no such export from the Czech Republic, no such contract, no such trade is concluded, especially with regard to the unclear use of the nuclear power plant, including for hostile military purposes towards other countries. That's a serious position. It's only three and a half years old, or four years from now. However, it was the government in which today's top officials of the current government sat in demise. He sat there as the current Prime Minister, who is in remission, and thus participated in this negative position. The current Foreign Minister, also in resignation, Martin Stropnický, then as Minister of Defence, was involved in this negative position. There was a Minister Šlechtová, who is now in remission, representing a different resort than she represents today. But she, too, as a member of the government, signed a negative position under which the government called the House: this proposal by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is not recommended by the government, especially given that it would endanger the security not only of the countries of the region, but also of the threat to us. This is an interesting shift if we look at today's recommendations of a government that is partly similar to that of the previous government, and then the exponents saw a serious threat to our security when this ban was broken, and today the same ones give a neutral position. It's funny, because we can all interpret this neutral position as we want it to be. We can offer an interpretation that says so, the government doesn't know what to do with it, and so it doesn't say yes or no, it acts like that famous clever mountaineer and says House, do what you want with it, I wash my hands of it. Which is certainly not good news for us or for the Czech public, because the government must be clear on the issue of such a serious importance in today's dangerous world. He can't play on his turf and I say nothing, I'm a musician, I keep my hands off it. The second possible interpretation of this neutral position is that we do not have a government with the confidence of the House, and in this meantime it is necessary not to anger anyone, so that anyone who could potentially support me, who could meet my demands, that I should finally - I mean now that I can become Prime Minister with confidence - so I simply have to Babiš where I would normally not dodge, where I would normally, as President of a sovereign state, be aware of my important role and defend the security of this country, while now I say this enough to me, because I know that I will not move any further without communists, and therefore, even on this crucial issue, I would not back down to them, and it means that I am an unspoiled politician, to whom the really fundamental issue of the security of our country is, let me say this word, stolen. Neither of those interpretations of the neutral attitude of the current government in demise is good news for us. And I needed to say all of this here so that we know for ourselves what positions we have ever held, what reasons we have for changing them now, and what we are putting on the table, if we are saying that this isn't really a big deal, we're going to leave the Communist Party and its representatives here in shame to argue with the analogy to 1938. I could say who invited our savior from Russia in 1968. I could talk about it when it was said here that we are supporting Czech interests, if we do not by chance support Russian interests, because it is the ROSATOM that delivers the nuclear power plant in Bošehr, unlike who started it, i.e. from German companies, and then because of the conflict that occurred in this territory, this contract went to ROSATOM. And I have the impression that more than Czech interests are served by the plaintiffs of abolishing this law by the interests of Russian companies, not Czech companies, the interests of Russian politics, not Czech politics, the interests of Russian alliances in the world, not the interests and obligations that the independent Czech Republic has accepted as part of NATO, as part of the Western alliance. Therefore, I warn you about this bill and ask you to really take sides with the interests of the Czech Republic and not with the interests of any other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u7	Thank you, too, Madame. With a factual point, President Kováčik wants to respond, then to the discussion by the rapporteur. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. They're starting to heat up outside, and it looks like it's starting to get a little heated around this topic. It's just a reminder. The contract lost by Czech companies was completed by other, Western companies. The power plant is almost ready. It was about the non-nuclear part, the fundamentally non-nuclear part, but that's all irrelevant. The important thing is that it turns out once again that some representatives of the Czech Republic are masters in the damage to the economic interest of the Czech Republic and its citizens. I just - and sorry, it is not out of the question when my colleague Žáček was able to speak as he spoke, so I would like to remind myself that, for example, the sanctions that we imposed on Russia fell mainly on Czech companies. [[9.30 hours]] So let us leave, if, for the sake of one of the allies, we don't be friends with Iran and the direct damage is in billions, so let Czech companies get contracts of similar amount, so let those companies that are actively trading after the abolition of sanctions with Iran also take Czech companies out of solidarity for joining us in the sanctions, whatever they are, mainly for ideological reasons. And let's get rid of the myth code. That is why I do not think it should be given to those committees that have been proposed here, but it is mainly food for the economic committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u9	Thank you, even for keeping time. With a factual point, President Stanjura came forward and took precedence over the standard application. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u10	Thank you. Then for President Kováčik, by your means. That's the law, that's not food. I find it extremely brave of communist mouths to say who is the pest of the Czech economy. Who destroyed the Czechoslovak economy from 1948 to 1989? They were communists. No one else. If anyone harms economic interests, they are communists - the way they promote foreign policy. That's right. And it will be the responsibility of the YES movement if they allow them to promote part of their foreign policy into the policy of the Czech Government. I think our Republic has really extremely good relations with the State of Israel. So ask, you supporters of this bill, what relations our ally Israel has with Iran. Have you noticed that for the first time the formation of the State of Israel at the Prague Castle will be celebrated? What's the message to our allies? It would still be ideal that we in third reading - not us communists, ANO, and who will join it, could approve the day when the formation of the State of Israel will be celebrated at Prague Castle. That would be nice. And it would be nice, balanced by the communist: So we served Moscow, so we will not serve anyone. It's kind of relativizing. And about the occupation here, Vojtěch Filip says: We had a reduced degree of independence or sovereignty. Unbelievable! And you're ready to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u11	Well, thank you. Another factual point, President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u12	We know something about the origin of the State of Israel. It was a socialist Czechoslovakia, which then supported the emergence of the State of Israel and, to this day, when you arrive there, at least I had the experience, so the share of Czechoslovakia in the creation of the State of Israel is recalled and quite appreciated. But that's just to the edge. They are Czech, Moravian and Silesian entrepreneurs whose interests we defend. And as for that remark by Mr Stanjura, through Mr President, for a long, long time, and even today you can hear him sometimes, an old joke. What was the greatest crime of communism? Well, they left the material here for another 25 years after the coup. So let's drop the myths, let's have a moment and a real moment, let's get rid of all that ideological stuff. And once again, Czech, Moravian and Silesian entrepreneurs who are losing their jobs and their employees should have these ideological barriers, if you want, to regulate their business, in some way compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u13	Thank you. And those factual remarks have brought about a whole series of things. First Mrs Němcová, President Kalousek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my speech, I forgot to quote some arguments in relation to Israel. So let's remember something. The Czech press agency from April 2018 says - I quote: "Iran is able to destroy Tel Aviv and Haifu if provoked by the semi-official Arab agency Fars. This is how Izraelec was warned by Alí Šírází, who is an advisor to spiritual ayatollah Chameneí. Iran has threatened to destroy Israel many times in the past. The same position was also taken with Iran by the related Lebanese Shia movement Hezbollah. The Iranian Revolutionary Guards Advisor was heard in 2016 that if an order was given to destroy Israel, the army would carry out this order quickly and it would not take her even eight minutes." Those are the sentences that should lead us to attention. At the same time, the phrase they add from Iran: "Until now we thought that Europe was not a threat to us, and we did not increase the range of our missiles. But if Europe wants to become a threat, we will," adds one of the representatives of the Salámí movement. Clearly, Israel is the target. Israel is our closest ally to whom we claim. Our official Czech policy is established as a priority partner for Israel in this region, and we have long been building and supporting these relations. I think that, if nothing else, we should also take these arguments very seriously into account. And you can't measure everything. Everything cannot be measured by economic profit, by any means possible, if there are political and military threats that have a far more devastating impact on us than possible supplies to this region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u15	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Kalousek, Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u16	Thank you. Chairman Kováčik is right. It was indeed a socialist Czechoslovakia that, in 1948 and 1949, armed Israel in its war for independence. And to this day everyone remembers how Czechoslovak rifles Mauser and Czechoslovak planes Messerschmitt and Spitfire helped Israel defend their state. But it was also a socialist Czechoslovakia that interrupted diplomatic relations with Israel and began to support the terrorist Arab states that were engaged in terrorist attacks in Israel. We both have these traditions. Now it's up to you colleagues to follow up on. Whether the tradition that the independent state of Israel supported or the tradition that supported those who wanted to destroy Israel. We have both of these historical experiences. Now let's decide which one to follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u17	Thank you. Mr Munzar, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u18	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague Kalousek took it a little out of my mouth. It wasn't just socialist Czechoslovakia. He was especially Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, who supported the idea of creating an independent Israeli state. And it was his son, Jan Masaryk, who, as Secretary of State, continued to promote aid to Israel after 1948. But it was the socialist Czechoslovakia that crashed and disrupted relations with the State of Israel. I would recommend that we do not merely have a selective memory of the socialist Czechoslovakia during these speeches, Mr Kováčik through Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u19	Thank you. With another factual remark by Mr Blažek, Mr Lipavský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. Well, I'm gonna start with a little bit of nitpicking, because it wasn't Czechoslovakian socialist, but it was a people's democratic back then. But that's just to be precise, and it's a marginate. And to Mr Kováčik through you. But we have to say the whole thing. I have no doubt that it was Gottwaldův's government that supported, or rather those governments that were after him, he was the president after that, but we have to finish the whole story. All those involved in this were mercilessly executed or arrested within a few years, because politics had once changed completely. So I'm not questioning this, but let's just say it all. All those who helped ended up in the execution ground or in prison, even if they were members of the KSČ. We have to say the whole thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u21	Thank you. So, with the factual remark of Mr Lipavský, then President Kováčik. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u22	Hello. I would like, through the President, to poke a little bit into Mr Kováčik. Because listening to KSČM defend the interests of entrepreneurs in Bohemia, Moravia, Silesia is really, really strange. [[9.40 hours]] Otherwise, I would like to add - it is necessary to realise that, of course, next to Iran, there is Syria, which has become a kind of proxy warfield of world powers - Russia, which supplies weapons to China, there is a very present Iran. And, of course, the threat, we've been talking about it quite openly in the past days, almost World War III, when Američan have decided to take military action there, they're kind of talking about, if Iran is part of this conflict, then we just have to be absolutely cautious about such matters. And then the question is whether it makes sense to deal with a law like this, when we can see that, for example, the international treaty that I was talking about here is in danger from the point of view that, again, the United States of America has a very hard position and, more or less, they want to back out of that treaty. So that's what I wanted to complete the international context of what we're dealing with here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u23	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kováčik. It's the last point of fact so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u24	So to end this, colleagues, because, after all, we have here other important materials that we have, sorry, laws, no food, but that will also be dealt with by the committees, and that is, for example, food. But with that selective perception of history, Mr Munzar and others through Mr President, at least we have nothing to blame. But I'm not gonna be a nitpick, so be it. But I didn't say that was it. I merely said how this was perceived in Israel on my last visit there, in which I discussed this matter with the then President of Parliament, today's President, Mr Rivlin. And the rest of you must also confirm if you were there in those discussions that the gratitude for helping Czechoslovakia still prevails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u25	Thank you. Mr Bartošek, then President Stanjura, made a point of fact, so I jinxed it a little bit with that last point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u26	Thank you. By your means, I will respond to my colleague Kováčik. He said a joke here, so I'll check it out. Why did socialism never work in the Czech Republic? Because such a big mess in such a small country just doesn't fit. And there's one thing that needs to be realized. I understand -- and the communists are consistent in this, and you've repeatedly passed this law. Historically, you've always been closer to the Palestine Liberation Organization than to Israel, so I understand you have these ties rather than democratic countries. I understand your position, but I firmly believe that members of the ANO movement will rather support Israel as a democratic country and our partner. So I ask you, members of the ANO movement, to support the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u27	Thank you. Another factual point - President Stanjura, then Mr Žáček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u28	I'm just gonna ask a few more questions. I think we agree that in Israel, they value our help in creating their state and value long-term great relationships. They also appreciated our resolutions and our resolutions, which responded to hostile unacceptable resolutions, such as UNESCO. That's all true. And everyone who refers to it is right. So let's ask: Did the Foreign Minister talk about this law with the ambassador of this state? We have a very large group of friends of the State of Israel, if I have watched, one of the most numerous. I recommend that the chairman of this commission convene a meeting, invite the ambassador and ask him how such a bill is perceived by our ally, and here he reports it. It is a good tradition and I hope that we will continue to do so, that sometimes the governments of the Czech Republic and the State of Israel meet as a whole. I support this very much and it is not common at all. As far as I know, such a meeting took place, of course, with the Government of the Slovak Republic and also with the Government of the Republic of Poland. I can't think of another example, but I may have forgotten someone, but it's only three of these cases that I've been remembering since 2010. That is why we repeatedly wanted the Prime Minister to give us his views on the microphone in demise, the Minister of Foreign Affairs in resignation, the Minister of Defence in resignation, because the neutral position is alibism. This is a purely political decision, the bill is very simple. We're either gonna break the law or we're not. You don't need legislative advice, government, long counseling with lawyers for that. It is, and we honestly admit it, a purely political decision. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u29	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Žáček, then President Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would connect, because, of course, the basis of our internal policy, foreign policy is our historical experience, and I would draw attention to the words or in another context, my colleague Filip - "either blindly trust our allies"." So as a condition for this to happen, he is trying in some way to question our trust in our allies. Why are we in these allied international organizations, why are we in NATO, for example? It is precisely because there was an experience from 1938 that the foreign policy commitments and contracts then were not enough to ensure that Czechoslovakia was defended, and so did part of the Soviet bloc and the Warsaw Treaty in August 1968, in fact, did not turn it back to occupation. Thus, our historical experience commands us to be in a sort of political and military grouping that ensures peace and stability in the Europe of which we share values. That is why I believe that the challenge of not trusting our allies blindly is completely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u31	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Kováčik, then Mr Janulík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u32	Just a really small reaction and let's move on. Towards Mr Bartošek through the President, whom I am quoting now, about the big brothel in a small country, the end of the quote. He must remember it well from the National Front, because the people's people were involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u33	Thank you for the brief factual remark. Now, Mr. Janulík. Madame Němcová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have been indirectly addressed by my colleague Stanjura, so just as the chairman of an inter-European group of friends of Israel, I want to assure him that there is no need to summon anything, because on this subject, basically, with the Israeli partners... at least I have spoken to the previous Ambassador, Mr Gary Koren, a long time ago, I think I have spoken to the current ambassador on this topic for the last time this week. His position as representative of the State of Israel is very negative. Of course, they have fundamental reservations and fundamental connotations about this. That would be a long time, the reasoning. Again, it's very negative because it's seen as a symbolism, of course. Maybe I'd join the argument that it's costing us, of course, and maybe we could and maybe we should expose someone, that's the other side of the coin. But we know that this is very negatively perceived. My colleague Černochová and I were at the Home Land Security conference about five years ago, we were in Kneset, so we talked to the representatives. And even then, the word "Búšehr" came out. So otherwise, who's interested, the blind pass over, how many Jewish friends are here, the group is hugely numerous, we have a meeting today at 4:00 p.m. across the street from the Pink Lounge, as it always used to be. So whoever wants to join us. I hope we'll serve a cup of Israeli wine as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u35	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Němcová. After that, the rapporteur failed mentally and made a point of fact. Then, with a factual remark, President Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u36	Thank you for the floor. I hope it's the last time today. I don't want to bother you too much with my performances, but I would like to say that we shouldn't just go over the government's position without noticing. I have quoted some of the ministers here who were in the then government giving a negative opinion and today giving a neutral opinion, but I forgot about those, and they are not here, there is no Minister Stropnický, there is no Secretary of Defense. We are pretending that these people - I know that they are excused and I respect that, but there were proposals yesterday to postpone this subject so that these competent ministers would have the opportunity to comment on it. You have not accepted these proposals. [[9.50 hours]] But there are ministers who were in the then government, it is Minister Brabec certainly, but I don't know if he is here, I don't know if Minister Ťok was already a minister or not, Minister Pelikán had a predecessor to today's Member, Mrs Válková, and I don't know which one was signing up for that statement, so some of them could come out here and say what the defense of today's government position is and what their change in position is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u37	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Kubíček, then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, but I feel a little crazy here. I'm a reporter, and I can't get off for three days. Through the President to Jana Černochová, on the statement she asked me to make. I didn't get that information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister, so I couldn't give any information. And if I were to quote myself, I was here reporting intelligence. The Government's statement is part of the material, and although there is a neutral position, there are some concerns in that opinion. As for the vote YES, which is called upon here, I have several colleagues here, and you know how we voted, Mrs Němcová certainly knows who voted otherwise. The way it worked. I was, I never thought about it here, but I was a member of the first fighter regiment of České Budějovice, I was flying on migs and I had the opportunity to meet Israeli pilots on the ground, but also in the air. And it's really top, and České Budějovice remembers it for a long time and there's a lot of support. However, on the other hand, I say that we are putting it in a context here and why we are going to those committees. I would like to hear information from the security services about a situation that works, and we know that committee chairmen can invite anyone they want to the meeting. They can make a closed deal, and it's information we'll never get here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u39	Thank you. Another factual point, President Bartošek, then Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u40	Thank you, really only briefly by your assistance to Mr Kováčik about the National Front. I've mentioned it before, but only to fill in your information. In 48. the leadership of the People's Party under the barrels of rifles and under the dictation of the Communist Party was given by Mr Plojhar, which was an excluded member, and it should be noted that the People's Party then suspended its activities and resumed it in 1990. Fill in the historical information. That means, basically, the Communists raped the People's Party, they subjugated it. And this is true history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u41	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Černochová. . [[Comment by Mrs Cernochová from the diaper]] Well, it turns out you can do the right thing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It would be fair to read the opinion here, not by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Stropnický, but by Mrs Zuzana Stiborová, who is the head of the Deputy Minister's Office and the political director at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is from the Security and Multilateral Section. "Dear Member, following the instructions of Minister Stropnický, I am sending the following information on the issue of the relevance of the bill on the prohibition of supply for the Búšehr nuclear power plant. This law is overcome by an agreement on Iran's nuclear programme. The Czech Republic is the only country of the European Union that has a similar law or had it. On the contrary, the agreement on Iran's nuclear programme calls for cooperation in the nuclear field with the Republic of Iran, which will ensure exclusively the peaceful nature of Ír. a nuclear program. Of course, the US threatens to reinstate sanctions following the possible termination of the Iranian nuclear agreement on May 12, 2018, by President Trump, which does not mean that the European Union will do the same. From the point of view of the Czech Republic, many companies are faced with the signing of major trade agreements in the area of the reconstruction of the nuclear reactor in Ark, which, in accordance with the agreement on Iran's nuclear programme, will prevent Ír. in the production of fissile materials needed for the arms industry, something that is in everyone's interest. If necessary, do not hesitate to contact me. Greetings, Zuzana Stiborová." So it is not the Minister of Defence's position. I'm just wondering if what Mr. Janulík said here through the President, which I totally agree with, so if it is communicated in your movement, because if it is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, virtually. his colleague writes this, while the government of the Czech Republic, where only Members, respectively, sit. representatives, not only Members, representatives of the ANO movement, I am a little confused about whether this foreign policy actually corresponds fully in this case, and the notes are aligned in the ANO movement, or whether what we've been experiencing since Saturday in connection with Syria, that every member of your government here says virtually something different just to avoid pissing off colleagues from the SPD, colleagues from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. I thought it was polite to read it to you here, but to tell you the truth, it didn't change my mind, because I would really like to hear the Prime Minister's position, even if he's in remission. Because if someone in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has this opinion, then there are also opinions from colleagues of YES others, there is a neutral position of the government, so there are actually a number of questions. For this reason, I beg you, colleagues, to interrupt this point in the presence of Prime Minister Babiš, so that he, as Head of Government of the Czech Republic, can tell us whether he agrees with what officials are writing or otherwise. Because it will be Prime Minister Babiš, who will then answer to his colleagues for what the Chamber of Deputies here will accept or not accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u43	Thank you, Madame. There was a procedural motion to interrupt this point in the presence of the Prime Minister. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. Let me read you a few apologies. Minister Schillerová apologises for the reasons of work, Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes between 12 and 13 o'clock for the sake of the hearing, I do not know if I have already read this apology, Mr Radim Fiala apologizes for today's working day to the end for the reasons of work, Mrs Barbora Kořanová apologises between 15 and 00.00 for the reasons of work, Mr Klára Slavíková apologises for the reasons of work, Mrs Válková from 9.00 to 10.00 for the reasons of health, Mr Petr Pávek apologizes from 9.00 to 11.30 for the reasons of doctor's visit, Mr Vyzula is apologizing from 10.00 to 1.00 for the reasons of work and Mr Ondřej Benešík apologises from 9.00 to 10.00 for the reasons of work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspension of this item. I see a request for a check-out that I will comply with. I'm gonna ask you to rejoin your ID cards. [[10.00 hours]] I'm opening the vote. I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point in the presence of the Prime Minister. Who's against it? Voting number 109, registered is 139 Members, for 43, against 21. This proposal was not adopted. So we will continue to discuss this. At this point, I am not registering any application for a debate or factual comment. Just to be safe, I'll take a careful look around. I don't see... There. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, after the flood of ideology we had here, I would return as a technical person to the facts. Iran is a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency, so the plant in Bushehr is subject to its control. The delivery of the company ZVVZ Milevsko, which was the subject of this law, which we are discussing, had a total value of 4.5 billion. crowns which, of course, were never refunded to Milevsk. According to the latest statistics published for 2016, the trade turnover of the European Union countries with Iran reached 13,8 billion. EUR, of which 8.25 made Iranian imports from EU countries and exports made 5.5. So one thing we can realize is that political laws, such as lex Búšehr, are basically just opening up space for competing businesses. And we were elected to defend the interests of Czech companies, Czech citizens, Czech people who work. I therefore propose that we refer this law to the discussion of the Foreign Committee and the Committee on European Affairs in order to open a thorough and precise discussion of all the conventions that this law and its possible abolition may bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u45	I thank the honourable Member for his contribution. He made a factual comment by President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u46	I am very sorry, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure this is not a factual point, so I am applying with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u47	And you have the option, no one's logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u48	Thank you very much. I mean, since the government bench is filled, I dare to make a request that may remain heard, but I'm still going to say it. I just can't understand the neutral position of the government. I would disagree, but I would understand if the government said "we agree with the proposal." Of course, I wish the government had said "we do not agree with this proposal." But I can't understand how it doesn't matter to the government! A neutral position means that the government says "we don't care." This is a political decision and a foreign policy decision. Foreign government policy is made up of government. The government is responsible for it. Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister Brabč, don't you care? You really don't care if we approve or not? Madam Secretary of Finance, don't you care? Mr. Home Secretary, you don't care? [[He always turns to the specifically appointed ones.]] I mean, you can't care. Either he's in or he's in. Can either of you please explain this to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u49	I thank you and ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone. So I am definitely ending the debate on this point and we will continue. The proposal was made by President Stanjura, President Kalousek and President Bartošek to reject this bill. We will vote on this proposal first. [[From the plinth of a request for a gong.]] I gong, I gong as much as I can. And there's a check-out request. I beg you to rejoin. So, I think we're ready to vote that the number of votes has more or less stabilized. To be sure, we are voting on the motion to reject this law at first reading. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number 110, registered 138 Members, for 48, against 15. This proposal was not adopted. We will therefore continue to consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Please, Mr Lipavský. [[Colleagues are calling him.]] Now I'm asking about the guarantee. And I report in advance that I have noted your proposal in the general debate, and I would certainly not miss it. So no proposal for a guarantee committee other than economics. So we're going to vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote 111. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting with beautiful number 111, registered 144 Members, for 131, against 4. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. In the general debate... And maybe I'll ask my colleague to do it again. Then the rapporteur, then Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u50	Hello. Mr President, I will therefore repeat these proposals. I propose that the law in question be relied upon for discussion by the Security Committee, the Defence Committee and the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u51	Yes, thank you. The rapporteur, please. Then Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would still recommend the Foreign Committee and the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u53	So please, Mrs Černochová. [[He's not interested.]] The proposals were identical, so the Member withdraws her application as well as Mr králíček. And once again, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It has fallen, but I would like to reiterate that we are proposing an extension to the committees for 20 days to 80 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u55	20 days. Yes, I have a note that Mr Hájek suggested 17. 4. And now we are going to vote gradually on the various committees. First, we will decide on the command of the Defence Committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 112, 144 Members registered, for 128, against no one. This proposal was adopted. [[10.10 hours]] Next, we will vote on the Security Committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 113, 144 Members signed in, for 125. [[against no one]] This proposal was adopted. Next, a motion was made at the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs by Mr Lipavský. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 114, 144 Members registered, for 128, against 1. This proposal has also been adopted. Furthermore, a foreign committee was proposed. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to have the proposal given to the Foreign Committee. Who's against it? Voting number 115, registered is 144, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. Finally, the Committee on Budgets was last proposed. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the commandment of this motion to the Committee on Budgets to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 116, 144 Members signed in, for 121, versus 5. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion as another committee of the Defence Committee, the Security Committee, the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Budgets and the Foreign Committee. Furthermore, in the general debate, a proposal was made for an extension of the deadline pursuant to Paragraph 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 to 3 of Mr Hájek - to extend by 20 days, i.e. to 80 days overall. We will now vote on this proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of extending the deadline. Who's against it? Voting number 117, 144 Members registered, for 132, against 1. This proposal was adopted and the deadline was extended. This has dealt with all the proposals and votes. President Bartošek with priority rights and then Vice-President Filip with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u56	Thank you. Allow me a brief summary of the discussion held and the final vote. In many ways, I was surprised to discuss this point. First, the failure of any member of the government to speak on a microphone and publicly say and justify the Government's position. Forgive me, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, but I personally consider it cowardice to give a clear opinion on why and how you think and how you decide. [[to Minister Brabco]] [[Don't give up?]] Furthermore, allow me to appreciate the few members of the ANO movement who voted in favour of rejection. I appreciate your attitude, including the fact that you expressed it publicly. Just as I am convinced that for the rest of the ANO movement the approval of this point and the release for further reading is the price of the emerging coalition, which will be supported by the votes of the KSČM. In the future, this means one thing in practice, and that is to betray long-term allies in short-term profit. I'm afraid this is the policy that the YES movement will bring here. And basically, you who let it go on, you made it clear that Israel is not an ally to you. The last thing that surprised me personally was the attitude of the members of the SPD movement. You have a program. I don't agree with him, but I respect him. You repeatedly define yourself against Islamic terrorism and Islam as such. And with your attitude and your vote, you've made it clear that basically money, whoever it is, doesn't stink to you. Iran is a state that supports and finances international terrorism. Iran is a state that supports an organization that wants to destroy Israel. And in that case, don't be mad at me, but your attitude is hypocritical. You have to decide whether you prefer money or strategic alliances. Today you have shown that money is more important to you, whoever it is from whomever it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u57	Thank you. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u58	Thank you. Mr President, since I did not even urge you to give me the final word before the vote, I will do so now, after the end of this point. First of all, I was surprised by some Eurohujers who suddenly had anti-European positions, and that was significant. I quote: The repeal of this law is particularly desirable under the aforementioned European Union Regulations based on UN Security Council Resolution 2231 of 2015, where, for example, in Article 29 of the Joint Comprehensive Action Plan of 14 July 2015 concluded between the EU+3 and Iran specifically on the European Union and its Member States, any policy aimed at direct adversely affecting the standardisation of trade and economic relations with Iran is required, which would be contrary to the successful implementation of this Joint Action Plan. In view of its content, Act No. 99/2000 Sb. The standardization of these relations with Iran is undoubtedly hindered. This is therefore on the account of the Eurohujers who have expressed themselves here. Now let me do one more thing. You know, it's in this law to argue in the way that we've shown here, or some of us have shown up here, it's really up to something. That's very considerate. When we talk here, and I start from the end, Mr Bartošek, about someone not actually following their agenda, we would have to talk about who is the bigger supporter of terrorism, whether Saudi Arabia or Iran. I do not know that there is anything in this action plan between the European Union and Iran about Iran's support for terrorism. I mean, that's not what somebody else said. And whoever reported it is one of the biggest violations of international law. So please leave the demagogy alone. Another demagogy, which was here yesterday, especially from Miroslav Kalousek, was, of course, quoting the words of President Rúhání, I appreciate that he found the courage to quote it. But he only quoted it in part, just the way it suited him to the debate. Just like my colleague here. The Němcová quoted before you the Government's position on our draft law of 2014 and forgot to quote the position by which the government submitted the same law in 2016. So what's the argument? What kind of argument is that? Did nothing really happen in between? If we're gonna cut to the point of quoting what's right here, okay, then we have to choose if that quote even makes sense in the debate. [[10.20 hours]] You know, I quote the words of President Rúhání, I follow up on what Mr. Miroslav Kalousek said, he's not here right now. And he just said that one sentence that we're telling the world that we're gonna make or buy whatever weapon we need, and we're not gonna wait for permission. We are telling the neighbouring states that - and now Mr Kalousek has no longer quoted it - we are telling the neighbouring states that these weapons are not directed against them. Their goal is to discourage the attack on Iran. We don't live in a normal region, and we see how they built a base of occupying powers around us. They interfere in regional matters, attack other countries regardless of the fundamental principles of international law, without the UN's consent. So please, when we quote, let's quote the whole thing! Who attacked another UN sovereign state from Friday night on Saturday? Was it Iran? Wasn't it the United States of America, Great Britain and France? So please stop with the demagogy! This is a law that concerns the economic interests of the Czech Republic and the economic interests of the European Union, which we are part of. So if you want to be part of the United States of America, say it out loud! And don't make excuses for our alliance with Iran. I don't have a problem. I already said here yesterday that part of my family had to move to the United States of America in 1938 when she was running from Hitler. So don't lecture me here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-001-031.u59	I thank you and apologize for not providing room for the final word. I'm so excited that the debate was over, I forgot. So I'm done with this point, definitely. Thank you. We've dealt with the first reading. Let's continue with point number
