ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u1	8. Members of Václav Klaus, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 61/ - first reading This point was interrupted yesterday. We will continue the general debate. Mr. Munzar, please. The Member spoke yesterday, which means that I beg Mr Kupka. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Quiet in the House, please! Please, let's watch the speaker's speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u2	vážený President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u3	I'm sorry. One more time, please calm down! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u4	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will return to yesterday's speech by Mrs Valachová, when she spoke about why she put the guaranteed place in kindergarten for two-year-olds, in other words the obligation of the founders to ensure that two-year-olds can be admitted to kindergarten. She mentioned that it was such a raised finger from government to municipalities and to everyone so that they wouldn't let it lie flat and prepare kindergartens to be able to accept two-year-olds without a problem. Well, the big question is, what finger was it raised? Moreover, I do not think that the government should work in such a way that it threatens municipalities and cities and that this way it will encourage them to carry out the responsibilities that they carry out by themselves, because they simply have it in their full work and, of course, every government has it as its commitment to voters. It struck me that several times Mrs. Exministra used data not only somewhat misleading but completely incorrect. She mentioned, for example, that in current kindergartens, the ratio of children under three years after preschools is the second most numerous group. I quote almost literally from the log. But the reality is quite significantly different because children under the age of three in the previous school year were 45,000 in kindergartens. The children of the three-year-olds were 91,000, the children of the four-year-olds were 100,000, and the children of the five-year-olds were 106,000. So she was wrong by some 100 percent. I would say that this is a rather significant mistake given that the resort was in charge. I would like to bring some serious reasons, some serious views on why it is appropriate to repeal this provision of the Education Act, why it is wrong and why it places the founder, but also the head of kindergarten schools, but also the kindergarten teachers, but also parents, and even children in a very complicated or even unsolvable situation. To begin with, a view of the founder. The view of the founder, which affects the surroundings of many large cities. The ensemble undoubtedly includes tens to hundreds of municipalities where, in recent years, mayors, deputy mayors and representatives have done their best to expand their kindergarten capacity. They used all kinds of tools, they were in debt, they stopped land that could still be built, and now after many years of work they were able to relax, wipe the sweat off their foreheads and say, "We have finally come to a point where we have the obligation to do so. And look - a new form of school law will appear and say to them: Although you have already done your best, you have reached the limit of your options, here is your new duty. This is a situation for anyone who has ever found himself in a government, indeed more than a lifted finger. And I don't mean the middle finger now, virtually. I don't mean forefinger now. The story of kindergarten directors and kindergarten teachers. They take care of some 25 children in the classroom, some even more. And they try - because I don't suspect them, and it would be wrong to suspect them of something else - to offer education to children in the best possible form, in the best possible quality. In addition, she strives to provide education and education, as the principal and teacher of the kindergarten are dealing with this, in the most individual form possible. And suddenly it should be addressed in a class where there are three-year-olds, somewhere even combined with four-year-olds and five-year-olds, because that was the recommendation of the Ministry of Education to mix the age of children in each kindergarten class, so suddenly it meets children who are under three years of age and have other hygiene habits, it has been said repeatedly here, some of them, for example, still using diapers, of course, have other needs to rest. How do you deal with it when the larger part of the class wants to play is full of energy, but of course other children would rather go to sleep or rest somewhere in the corner? How will this ensure that safe conditions are secured for all? And, of course, others are also eating demands. Then other important aspects that may be more troubling to the principal. Most toys have been tested since they were three years old. How do you make sure those two-year-olds don't get their hands on those two-year-olds in the same class? And, of course, there are other demands on the construction form of kindergartens, on the location of washbasins, toilets, etc. There is so much in the field of education that when it can be affected only for the basic age of children, it is difficult, let alone when it is necessary to combine space and environment for children under the age of three. It's a parent's story. Now they can count on the fact that the municipalities will take care of the two-year-olds, that they have to ensure it, and so, of course, because they live in a legal state, they assume that the municipalities will somehow ensure it, and they will find themselves in a situation where they will adjust their life schedule, and they will say, "Now my child will be taken care of by the community and I can plan my life." And suddenly, the hard reality of the parent is going to fall, because the community, even if it were cut, will not be able to provide a kindergarten for two-year-olds. It just won't be possible. She's exhausted all her options. A situation that's really complicated. The mayor's gonna do what he can, just as good a solution, he's not gonna find a good way out for that parent. [[11.00 hours]] We are not talking about the possibility that a child under three years of age could not be admitted to kindergarten individually, depending on individual possibilities. We're talking about whether the school code should contain this duty, head of the head. If, regardless of the state we find ourselves in, how kindergarten is prepared for this, what is the real situation on the part of the faculty, if this is simply possible to ensure. And I say that it is not and that it will not be in many places in the Czech Republic, even if ministers were cut up, if mayors and school directors cut up, it will simply not be possible to arrange it in 2020. It just doesn't go to the exact terms and conditions of fact. And the moment the law contradicts reality in this way, something is wrong. At that point, he's making an unfortunate really wide range of people who, despite all their goodwill, just can't deal with the law. Well, that is a good reason for us to immediately abolish such a provision of the law, because it is not in the interest of the rule of law to put so many people in an unsolvable and factually illegal situation. I'm going back to the original turnover of the secretary who said it was supposed to be such an elevated finger over everyone. So again, I appeal to the government not to plan for the future to lift a finger, because it doesn't do any good. The final remark concerns compulsory pre-school education, the compulsory last year of pre-school education, pre-school education. Apparently, the main argument was that especially in socially excluded localities it is difficult to ensure that children really go to schools, and so the genius solution meant: so we extend the obligation by a year. We are looking for a solution for more children to go to school, so they may no longer respect only nine years of compulsory school attendance, but even ten years of age. Well, that misses the target. We're pushing the age limit. We do not ensure that, in socially excluded localities, we would prepare children better to enter the first classes of primary schools. We're dealing with a different problem than the one we're talking about. In conclusion. I didn't like to open a small office to correct widespread errors. In fact, I regret that the petitioner of the law and the former Minister of Education really used inaccurate but fatally inaccurate data on how many children attend kindergarten in individual age groups. To supplement the relevant data, I drew from the official document, the Yearbook of the Annual Report of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, where the data can be traced exactly in the previous school year. I firmly hope that in this debate, which is still relevant, the facts will prevail and that we will succeed in this oversight, this perhaps ideological, senseless act of school rule out and strip away a lot of kindergarten schools, a lot of founders. And of course, we should not stop improving the conditions for children's groups, where we are able to find a better solution than for kindergartens and two-year-olds, that concrete steps will not stop for parents of two-year-olds who would like to go to work to find a solution. But the road doesn't go through the school bill, through another must, through the head-to-head solution that brings everyone really into an unsolvable, illegal and unpleasant situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u5	Thank you. A real point, Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by your means to my colleague Kupek. Of course I'm sorry. As he said now on the microphone from the point of view of the two groups, he really told the truth and I just responded to a number of questions from the discussion. It certainly wasn't a deliberate mistake on my part. I just want to be more specific. In the case of five-year-olds, this is the largest group, in fact, in the last year, the ratio of that year increased from about 91 percent to 97 percent, and then the ratio of two-year-olds three years ago from 35 percent to about 45 percent today. The other three-year-olds and four-year-olds remain roughly the same. I just want to explain what I meant. Otherwise, like he really said, it's true. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u7	Thank you. There is no further factual point, so please Mr Staněk and Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I must once again state that, in the exceptional interest of colleagues and colleagues across the political spectrum, we are discussing the proposal for an amendment to the school law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and through you, Mr President, even Mrs Černochová, in October of this year this will be just eight years since I am in municipal politics. So I really can't compete with Mrs Černochová and her 20 years in communal politics. I also cannot trump her achievements, for which I certainly congratulate her. I would like to tell you, Mrs Černochová, through the President, that the statutory city of Olomouc also manages the nursery. The capacity of the cribs, which currently have two departments, is 35 places, so 15 children in the younger toddlers section are cared for by three children's sisters, and the older toddlers department is for 20 children, cared for by two other children's sisters. Professional care is performed by registered general nurses with specialization of a child nurse with long-term experience. Each department has two equipped playrooms, bedrooms, bathrooms, for children's stay outside we use a sage garden where children play in a wooden house, a train, a slide in the shape of a frog and a sandbox covered by pergola. However, stays in the nursery are paid at monthly intervals, the amount consists of dietary and operating costs. We are also founders of kindergartens, primary schools, three-component Moravian Theatre, Moravian Philharmonic, Zoological Gardens. And we'll subsidize them with a small amount. We also subsidize public transport. And so I could go on and on and on. We also subsidize the performance of the delegated government for which we do not receive adequate compensation from the State. But I do not think that I need to convince you, Mrs President, with your experience in municipal politics that we are also concerned with our fellow citizens, young families and seniors in Olomouc. But you can understand that I am rather irritated when I hear how simply duties are shifted here - and often justified - to municipalities without thinking about where to take their finances. I apologize for this introduction, but I felt the need to comment on a rather personal and somewhat offensive response to my factual remark from last night. I think I was rational and material. Dear colleagues, at first reading, we are presented with a proposal from a group of Members which is essentially concerned with three areas. To begin with, I would like to remind myself that we are the nation of Jan Amos Komenský. It's often forgotten. And he is the author of a number of writings, including the School Information Society, which is an extremely modern concept of raising the smallest children. Even then, he knew about what psychologists were trying to get into general awareness today, how early childhood is not just an episode, foreplay for adulthood, but a completely separate and even standard chapter of life. The first experiences and experiences of the human are forever reflected in his soul, predestining his emotional wealth, or vice versa poverty. And I'd stay with poverty for a while. [[11.10 hours]] I am very sorry, and I understand the argument that has been made here that it should not be a state to take care of where parents put their two-year-olds, perhaps younger, that they should be municipalities. However, in 2017, in September, the Center for Public Opinion Research conducted a survey of the attitudes of the population of the Czech Republic to the amendment to the Czech Education Act, with 66 percent of respondents expressing themselves for a guaranteed place in kindergarten schools for each child over two years of age and 62 percent of those surveyed think that a place in kindergarten should be provided free of charge. We are not going to play the teaching training here, because I have to say that there really is no common view of whether three-year-olds belong. We can draw arguments here and base them on citations of different authorities. This debate is still relevant, and I would not like to take it outside of this matter. However, according to sociological data, up to one third of women with lower education remain unemployed after long parental leave and their subsequent economic deprivation has a negative effect on children's development. It's proven, or at least it's known. And I am very sorry that, indeed, in the past, and it has also been said here, it has been right-wing governments that have really gradually abolished the crèche system that has been introduced here in the long term. I have nothing against the fact that the system has been abolished, but unfortunately the measures accompanying this measure have not been sufficient. This shows today's interest especially of socially weaker families, single mothers to place the child in the facility so before the third year of the child's age. The arguments that are being raised here are, of course, very strong again. But I ask, in the localities, in the big cities, there is some discrimination between parents who want to place these children, because some kindergartens that aren't in such interesting locations to have full capacity, so ultimately, they have a job for their teachers, so they take the children, i.e. those children over two years old. And a mother who is not lucky enough to live in such an area, such a locality, but on the contrary living in an exposed location does not have such an option. Of course, I perceive the need for these parents, I perceive the need to put children into care for some time, I would say responsible people, whether they are kindergartens, teacher, governess, babysitters, babysitters, children's groups. But I'm asking, and I'm going back to the bill amendment that he's proposing. I don't see him there. I understand the legislative purity that Mr Klaus here declared through the President. That means there are things that don't belong in school law. But I wouldn't be happy to pour the baby out of the tub with dirty water. I would really like us to have a substantive debate on how to resolve a situation that has occurred after the looming of the nursery, how to resolve a situation where there is clearly interest from parents who need double income, they need the child to be placed here, how to deal with these things. That's what I miss about the proposal. What the second is very problematic in my opinion is the proposal to cancel the last or respectively. a section regulating the last year of pre-school education which, according to the applicant, should be covered. Respectively, there is talk that this education, which does not provide a specific degree of education, is paid for. Yes. We are the Social Democrats. Yes, it is a social support element, and it is not just for Romani children. It's not just for Romani children. It's an incentive element, it's an element that's supposed to be directed by parents to put the child in kindergarten at least in the last preschool year. You know, Marie Terezie, when she introduced compulsory schooling, she didn't introduce her day-to-day, or her amendment wasn't respected day-to-day. We must endure, we must wait, and we must do everything we can to ensure that this purpose, I would say God's purpose, can be fulfilled. And that is also the second argument that I say that the mandatory visit to the last year before entering compulsory schooling is meaningful. Even experts are talking about the fact that that year is relatively small, that the effect and impact is not what we would expect it to be for two years. But again, I think that this is a reasonable compromise that can be reached, and I am convinced that this year has its meaning, and it has its purpose in making it free. For this reason, I would ask, on behalf of the Czech Social Democratic Party Club, to reject this proposal, not because I would not want to discuss it, but I think that on the Education Committee and with the amendment prepared by Mrs Valachová, some of the ideas here have been suggested, so I think it can bring much more benefit with knowledge of the reality and knowledge and use of what we have talked about today and yesterday, so such work will be more meaningful than adjusting some other things. So my procedural proposal will vote on rejecting this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This is not a procedural proposal, we will deal with it after the end of the debate, but I have it registered. I ask the Excellent Member and the Rakušan Member will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to comment on the substance of this proposed amendment of the law, on the one hand, that I am an educator at the level of secondary education, but in recent weeks and months I have spoken with a number of especially heads of kindergarten schools not only in our region, and the information I have largely coincides with what has been said here by almost unisono from the mouth of my previous speakers. However, I also have an eight-year experience of a small town council member who is the founder of two kindergarten schools, and there I spoke with the directors and they only confirmed what is being said here. [[11.20 hours]] Just to illustrate, to see the situation that Chrudim County is in a particular kindergarten today. There are several immature three-year-olds in each class today who, of course, can't handle basic self-service, can't eat on their own, can't dress on their own. And I'm talking about three-year-olds, not two-year-olds. In each class there are already several, one, two, sometimes more children with first-degree support measures. Of course, in the near future, as pedagogical-psychological counseling works, the number of these children will increase and it will also be children with support measures at second, third and further levels. Preschoolers, that's another thing - from my point of view, not quite happy practice, where delays in schooling are given both on the running belt and in those kindergarten schools at once we have children not five-year-olds, six-year-olds, but also children who are just before the seventh year, or even children of seven-year-olds. And the duty of kindergartens to accept children for two years should come into this situation. I wonder how the principal, or then the teachers - and let's not really forget the teachers, the teachers - will deal with this if they have a few children with special educational needs there, then they will have two-year-olds who will be at a completely different stage of development than those preschool children, when in the end the kindergarten has a duty to work with those children in preparation for entry to primary school. Because it is highly unlikely that kindergartens are able to form homogeneous groups, that means only two-year-olds. Even the tendency - it is ultimately the recommendation of a number of experts in psychology, pedagogy - to create - and there the benefits are quite obvious - to create heterogeneous groups. That's how we get the guidance of kindergartens and teachers from an unsolvable situation. I would like to draw attention to one more fact, one thing. Although school law applies here and talks about the term 2020, secondary schools where kindergarten educators are primarily educated still do not reflect this situation in their framework education programmes and do not prepare qualified educators for - I'm a little reluctant to say education, because here we are really talking about caring for the two-year-olds. I would like to say that I am impressed, and it has also been said here that the Ministry of Education, or the Education Act, is here in today's wording, and that is why this amendment is being presented here, it falls within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And I understand the situation that is here and can sometimes be very justified. The fact that, for any reason, a mother of a two - year - old child has to take up employment should, in principle, be addressed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and not by the Ministry of Education. It really doesn't make any sense to me. And if, with the abolition of this obligation, we institutionalize children's groups, which are unfortunately in the burden of subsidies from the European Union today, and they will of course not be eternal, so if this form of care for two-year-olds is institutionalized and it will not be thrown in addition to the founders, the municipalities, but it will be clearly legal here that the state guarantees this possibility, then I think that this situation is also a solution for mothers of two-year-old children. And that is to say that there are pilot projects of micro-weather and other institutions running here today that can help solve this situation. So it's not that we want to deny the possibility, and sometimes fair and justified, mothers get into jobs when they need to, but we have to look for ways other than by breaking into school law things that are within the competence of another resort. So many factual remarks on the grounds that led the KDU-ČSL MP to support the abolition of this obligation. And in conclusion, let me remind you that this is not a ban. No one is going to forbid the heads of kindergarten to accept children who are going to miss a month, two until they reach three years of age, because, for example, they have siblings in that kindergarten. There's a logic to that. So the point here is that the founders are not obliged in 2020 to have sufficient capacity for kindergartens, which now, in recent years and months, have hardly, and not everywhere, conquered the capacity to cover the rights of children of three to six years olds. If I were consistent, then the founders, the mayors of the municipalities must have their capacity ready for all two-year-olds in 2020. Because where does the mayor have the assurance that everyone doesn't come up with the request? I think this thing is really unsolvable. We here should not create legal claims, demands towards self-government, which are not really able to comply with self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u11	Thank you, and please, with the priority right of Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u12	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for taking advantage of my priority right at the moment, but I did this because yesterday, when the debate that I would like to be involved in, I was in charge of the House of Deputies, and if I applied now, I would be in danger of driving again when my turn came to me, that is why I did so. I, of course, am one of the proponents of this proposal and, as the former Minister of Education, also want to comment on this matter all the more, that I have been mentioned here several times last time, for example, by Mrs Ex-minister Valachová in connection with the preparation or strategy for the development of the education system by 2020. The ex-minister mentioned me positively here, but she used an argument that was wrong. So I just want to remind you that I am actually applying, together with my colleague Jiří Nantl, to the concept and idea of preparing a document called the Education System Development Strategy by 2020. I'm glad this document was created. However, by the time it was approved and adopted and when it came to its final form, I had not been Minister of Education for almost a year. So unfortunately and actually thankfully I am not responsible for his definitive version, because there are things that I cannot agree with and which are not of a professional nature, but are more of a matter of ideas. However, there is nowhere to find, not even in the new form, that we assume - anyone, not even my successors from social democracy - that children who fail to reach the age of three should be required to be admitted to kindergarten. Because such an idea contradicts the knowledge of the professional public, it contradicts the real state and possibilities of kindergarten schools, it also contradicts what the Czech education system is able to offer and what is reasonable to offer. I want to make it clear that from the outset - and I have been here in the previous Chamber of Deputies against proposals that have introduced both compulsory pre-school year, i.e. compulsory one year of kindergarten, and the obligation of pre-school students to receive two-year-olds from 2020. I consider both of these proposals to be problematic from the outset, to a large extent harmful, but above all, those that are not solved by any of the problems that we have in the education system. And which we need to talk about not just education, but which we also have with the employment of young mothers, parents of young children. None of these problems will solve these measures, only complicate the situation, carry responsibility for their solution to someone who does not have such a responsibility, and will only make the situation worse. I would like to remind you that the Government's Legislative Council on the obligation to receive pre-school education and two-year-olds stated that while the guarantee of places in kindergarten helps the state save thanks to the increase in the employment of mothers of small children, it has negative effects on the budgets of municipalities associated with compulsory capacity building for the whole two-year population. [[11.30 hours]] Yes, these arguments were made here yesterday and it is good that they were heard here, i.e. the problems encountered by the municipalities, and that the task given to them is problematic in such a short period of time. But what matters is that it should not be a community and not be a kindergarten to solve this problem, and that it should not be a state who will impose on them a solution to this problem. The idea that two-year-olds belong to kindergarten and that it is the duty of a kindergarten that is enforced by its legislative provisions by the State to adopt such children is a misguided idea, to a large extent dangerous and an idea which also contradicts what purpose a kindergarten is set up as part of the education system, and what is the condition or the ability of two-year-olds to undertake some form of education, which is also intended or primarily a kindergarten. If we agree to the idea that all the children whose parents want it, who have not reached the age of three, should actually be admitted to kindergarten, then we must change the nature of the kindergarten, because the educational purpose that the kindergarten has will be significantly changed. We need to change the characteristics or competences of those who take care of children in kindergarten, who raise them, who educate them, and we would have to make a whole series of other changes that I don't think we can make, which are pointless and which have no logic to make. All of this makes it clear that if we want to resolve this situation so that it is reasonable for the municipalities to deal with it, that kindergarten schools do what they have to do, then the only way to do it is to cancel this nonsense, which has been introduced here, and we will not be required to do it to kindergartens, virtually. to impose on municipalities from 2020. And if we really want to argue abroad and solve the problems of employing parents of small children and such things, then we need to take different paths. It must be addressed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we need to focus more on creating conditions for children's groups, we need to look at the possibility of employment for short-term jobs and other and other things related to it, and on the things that this problem is normally solved abroad. But ordering preschools to accept two-year-olds from this table is no solution to this problem. Therefore, what we are now offering to abolish this nonsense is the right way. And here I have understood somehow that there is perhaps a majority will of the Chamber of Deputies to correct what has been wrongly adopted here in the past period. This will, if I correctly understand the debate and statements of the representatives of the parties, no longer exists in the case of the second proposed measure, and this is to abolish the compulsory year of pre-school attendance for five-year-olds. Here, both the Ministry of Education and a number of colleagues argue that this measure is good, that this measure is necessary, that this measure should remain in our education system. I don't think so, I didn't think so even when this proposal was made here. I argued quite comprehensively in the last parliamentary term against such a measure. I'm not going back to all these arguments right now, they appear in public debate, but I'm going to remind some of them. First of all, and this is the main argument, there is no reason why the state should prescribe that all five-year-olds will have to go to kindergarten for a year. There is no such need and nothing can be solved by such a solution. What's the reality? The fact is that over 90 percent of children have attended nursery school for many years without being ordered to do so. Of course, these numbers vary year-on-year, sometimes 93 percent, in some years 95 percent, sometimes 92.5 %, but consistently over 90 percent of children attend nursery school even at a time when this measure was not imposed on the State as an obligation. There are many good reasons why parents decide that children go to kindergarten, but there is no reasonable reason why it should be imposed on the remaining few percent who, for various reasons, do not put children in kindergarten. Of course, I am well aware of the arguments that this will help disadvantaged children, disadvantaged families, that we will force those who do not have any such institutional awareness of the importance of education and training for school, that we will force them to prepare themselves well and send them to schools and so on. We will not force them to do this, and so does the existing practice. But what we have done with such a measure is a complication for parents who are abroad, complications for parents who are on maternity leave with a smaller child and can take good care and prepare their older child well for primary school. Complications to parents who, for various reasons, very specific, do not put their child in kindergarten without meaning that it does not prepare him well for primary school. And these bureaucratic complications, this forced state parents do something they don't want to do, they don't have to do, it doesn't make any difference, it doesn't make anything better, it's something that I don't think is unacceptable, and that's why it's necessary to get this unnecessary, bureaucratic and burdensome issue out of the law and bring it back to the situation that it was in front of the amendment to the school law and that was satisfactory because it didn't cause any problems. On the contrary, we now have new problems in the education system with this measure. Some may also argue that we have a problem in the Czech Republic that many children are not well prepared for primary school. That a lot of kids are delaying their entry to primary school and that this will help us reduce the number of delays. First, ladies and gentlemen, and there is a rather extensive debate on this, the question is whether the 25, 20, 19 %, as it moves year on year, delay is a really high number, or this corresponds to certain developmental tendencies and assumptions of individual children for entering primary school, but this is indeed an expert issue that is being conducted. Some colleagues believe that the number of delays is too high, some believe that it corresponds roughly to some expected amount. I do not want to go into this debate, but I want to remind you of one thing that is essential in this debate, and that is that the vast majority, and there are studies, most of the delays are recommended by kindergarten teachers. So it's not like if we bring all the kids to kindergarten and they have to go there, we're going to reduce the number of delays when we go to elementary school. It just isn't, because those delays are recommended for children who go to kindergarten who know their teachers well, who are specially trained and who, on the basis of the recognition of the child's development and its prerequisite for entering primary school, recommend the delay. So even this argument cannot be used in this case. [[11.40 hours]] So the only thing we have achieved with the introduction of this obligation is that we have been obliged for nine years to go to primary school and to have to be educated at this grade of primary school in fact extended down by another year for five-year-olds. We have achieved no improvement in the relationship, no improvement in education, no better preparation for elementary school, and we have only complicated the lives of those parents who, for various reasons, did not put children in kindergarten and prepared them well for primary school themselves. I don't think the state is supposed to take such measures that do nothing, which only fill any ideological idea that the best solution is to put children in government care as soon as possible, sorry, that's in quotes, not to leave them in families, not to leave it to parents' decisions and force everyone to act the way the state is imagining. It's a misguided thought, but we could still really talk about it if it improves something, if it has proven to have any results, if it could have any results at all. But this measure has only one result: bureaucratization, complications for kindergartens, complications for parents, and it has not improved anything at all. By the way, speaking of employing the parents of the young children I mentioned at the previous point, that is to say, the obligation to provide for children from the age of two, I also have to say in this context that the measures on compulsory last year or the obligation to go to nursery school for five-year-olds have made life more difficult for some working parents instead of making life easier for them. Suddenly children are supposed to be there five days a week, while there was a chance before, and many parents practiced it so that they put children in kindergarten for two or three days and spent the rest of the week. This possibility has fallen away. Yes, you can argue, but if she's a reasonable principal and if that and when someone interprets it freely, it's still possible. Well, that's something that actually... We force needlessly, completely unnecessary kindergartens and parents to try to bypass or interpret the law, a provision that is wrong and that does not help anyone. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to point out or make a few arguments here that support both the basic building blocks of our proposal, i.e. how we are to abolish the obligation of pre-school children to receive two-year-olds from 2020, and why, in our view, it is clearly reasonable to remove the obligation for five-year-olds to attend pre-school in all cases. As I said, we have not improved anything, we have not made the situation easier for parents, we have complicated the lives of teachers, kindergartens, parts of parents, municipalities, but improvements for children, improvements in the education system, improvements in the conditions for parental employment, none of which has brought about this measure. That is why, in our opinion, it is reasonable to remove such unnecessary legislation, to re-release it, to restore it to a sensible form, and to leave it to parents and kindergartens to proceed in a way that they themselves consider to be good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u13	Thank you. I beg Mr. Sklenák to take action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u14	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. Only in response to what President Fiala said here. I think it sounded quite often here yesterday, too, that there are parents who would like to educate their five-year-old, but they can't and must put him in that kindergarten, and that's something they can't spend. It's not like that. There is something called individual education, and, of course, if parents want to educate the child at home, they can. There's no problem at all. So the legislator's intention was for preschool education to take place, not for children to have to attend kindergarten. And he doesn't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u15	Thank you. Mrs Majerová. He withdraws, in that case, Mr Rakušan, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u16	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, many have fallen during the debate on this subject, most arguments will be repeated. I will try to be quite specific and try to mention from the local mayor's experience several moments that clearly speak against introducing a legal obligation to take two-year-olds into kindergarten. First of all, it is necessary to realise that technical, hygienic, eating tax on kindergartens simply and simply are not adapted to be visited by children who are two years old, whose needs are really many times completely different, they are children who often require such care that they are the teacher's, and I stress that the teacher's word will have to be changed in kindergarten etc. For example, there are not enough premises in those kindergartens to allow all of this to take place in accordance with hygiene regulations. I generally resent the fact that there are not many connections here, not only financial but also the educational system of teachers in kindergartens. We want them more and more. After all, we want them to get a college degree, we want them to have a Bachelor's degree at least. And if we look at educational plans for teachers in kindergartens, they are clearly talking about the fact that teachers are being prepared for an educational process in the age category of three to six years. That's just what we as a state define in their education. And now we're moving a different legal arrangement without, for example, moving it. They changed these educational plans, the obligation to accept two-year-olds into kindergartens. However, I would also like to mention the local experience. For eight years, I was mayor of Kolína, and I was also at a time when a distinctive demographic curve came in the very sphere of children to attend kindergarten. In eight years, we have increased the number of places in kindergartens at huge financial costs by 150 seats. At present, we are building a new kindergarten pavilion, finally achieving a state where we will be able to ensure that three-year-olds are guaranteed a place in kindergartens in our mid-sized Central Bohemia city. The idea that I should be the mayor of this place for two-year-olds since 2020 is something that changes the entire city's investment strategy completely. It means to dig her up, but it means to dig up the zoning plan, too, because those places just won't be found anymore. It means finding new spaces in the city's cadastral to make sure that new kindergartens can be exposed at all. As Mayors and Independents, we have pushed for an amendment of CZK 300 million in the state budget for this year for the construction of kindergarten schools. I just want to point out that this amount will not even be able to ensure that all three-year-olds, especially in the suburbanized area around Prague, are entitled to be admitted to kindergarten schools, not to mention what the financial expenditure would have to be at a time when it would have been an obligation to receive two-year-olds from 2020. It bothers me, overall, that the state like that wolf, before which communities like those sheep are supposed to tremble with fear, still and still comes up with new responsibilities without discussing this with the municipalities. In fact, I do not know what was the commentary procedure from the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, by the Association of Local Authorities, because this regulation complicates the life of municipalities, their leadership, people in municipalities, but of course also teachers in kindergartens. So why go into such a regulation that may make life more difficult for all those involved in the educational process in a given age category? So, of course, as starosta and independents, we fully identify ourselves with the proposal to refuse to accept two-year-olds for pre-school education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u17	Thank you. I have two factual points here, Mr Kasal and then Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It didn't work for me, and I signed up for a discussion. I don't want to argue about responsibilities in any way - optionality, but from a paediatric point of view, when I've been in practice for 25 years, these kids have shifted over the past 25 years. And we're talking here that two-year-olds, three-year-olds can't do anything. I can still say six-year-olds, seven-year-olds can't do anything. You're talking about taking care of them, changing them, but how many pissing babies are there at five, six or seven? So it's more about taking some sense into the hand, and as it was said here, it's about a certain individual approach, because there are some children of two years who don't need a diaper, they're significantly on the height, sometimes intellectually significant, and of course they're five-, six-year-old children who aren't like that. Another thing that you have to expect to increase is that the number of autistic children increases, where it is much more difficult to take care of them. It's also with regard to approved government procedures on how to deal with these kids. There's already a screening where they're intercepted at 18 months. And if they are to visit this facility, there will be more difficulty in raising them. So these capacities are going to have to increase in some way anyway. So I'm not saying that something is mandatory, but that these things that life brings can be dealt with there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u19	Thank you. Mrs Valachová and then Mrs Majerová, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Rakušan, because he has raised a rhetorical question here about commentary proceedings and actually the involvement of the Association of Local Authorities or the Union of Towns and Municipalities. And, as I mentioned in my words yesterday, it is true that in the case of children under the age of three, no such commentary procedure ran standard because it was an amendment here in the Chamber of Deputies. However, once the law was passed, a series of talks by the Ministry followed with the Association of Local Authorities and with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. There was a progress agreement. And I will not delay the factual remark, of course I am prepared to refer it to Mr. Rakušan's hands for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u21	Thank you. Mrs Majerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u22	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. I would just like to briefly respond to what my colleague said before me, that when we talk here - and we talked yesterday - about the psychology of child development, one of the things that is absolutely trivial in preschool education is that, regardless of the fact that the teacher wants to establish an obligation now, they are very busy with children who are already inclusive and need assistants in kindergarten. And in this situation, when children who have any mental problems have to bring in these toddlers, it's wrong. In conclusion, I would just like to say that whether it is a two-year obligation to receive children or a mandatory last year of pre-school education, the only thing this amendment actually says is what we're talking about here the next day is to exchange the word for an opportunity. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u23	Thank you. I don't have any more factual points. Mr Válek, please, and Mr Jelínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this has already been the second day, so basically everything that has fallen, what should have been said, maybe it has been said. I love the debate, so I've been thinking in the last hour what I have to say and what hasn't been said here so I can't be a complete fool here. And finally, I decided to go completely against what I do in everyday life, and instead of scientific data and let's say studio conclusions, use the chandeliers' messages and on the case reports to say some things about how they work from my point of view. I would also like to say that I am extremely fond of how this debate is conducted rationally, correctly and decently, for which I thank both Minister Valachová and former Minister Valachová and Mr Klaus, because I think that if it always worked that way, we can really talk about the laws in a reasonable way. And now for my case report. I have four children, and I'm going to use that chandelier's message on them. I'll use it on myself because I went to kindergarten, even to daycare. The four children are three sons and one daughter. And that is the first thing that has been said only marginally here, the doctor, the colleague Kasal mentioned it. The difference between the daughter and the sons, when they were three years old, was absolutely crucial. In three years of age, the daughter was practically an adult from the point of view of the boy, practically a partner, whereas the sons were unable to stand up separately from the potty without help. That's all it is. It's in general, little girls at that age of three, four, five years and beyond are always smarter, more capable and more powerful in every way than boys. We'll catch up with them at retirement homes, but we're not gonna make it, are we? And the little boys were also in a completely brutal way. All three of them, because mom's a pediatrician and a puppy doctor, mother-in-law's a teacher, all three went to kindergarten because the kindergarten was close to home, teaching there the aunts they knew, looking forward to them, looking forward to schoolmates and schoolmates in those kindergartens, and solving the only problem, and the problem was whether by o. I don't know if your kids were also dealing with a major kindergarten problem, after or not after, but I remember when I went to kindergarten, that was my main problem, too. For those who didn't deal with it, it meant whether mommy or my mother-in-law or my grandmother, my mommy, they're gonna take them from the preschool after lunch, and then they won't have to sleep there or take them after lunch. And after that, he was a rock of injury. The three kids' access to your nursery was different. One of them concluded after a week that kindergarten was enough that he didn't want to go there anymore, because everything he could learn about kindergarten learned about it, and that it wasn't an attraction he wanted to attend, so we had to bribe him, tell him that after he definitely did, that he wouldn't have to walk every day - and basically works well, he went to school before he was six years old. The second child, who was only a year and a half younger, went to kindergarten with the same promise that after, after a week, because she fell in love with Aunt Miluška, whom all the children loved in that kindergarten, she packed her backpack with her moving in with Aunt Miluška, she was determined to marry her in the future when she was older. And the last son, he was something in between. I mean, like my colleague Kasal said, children are incredibly different at the same age. We're all colleagues here, even though we're generations apart, we have the same opinions on a number of things, but the difference between a two-year-old, a three-year-old, a four-year-old, a five-year-old, a six-year-old, a freshman, a sixth-year-old is huge, and that's just the way it is. You have to count on it, and I don't think you can put it in the box of any law. Therefore, the law must be written in such a way as to take account of these individual differences and the maturity of children of the same age. The second thing I would like to mention is the necessity or the necessity for children to go to kindergarten at the age of five and acquire some knowledge so that they can go to the first class. When I tried to remember - again, mother-in-law teacher, mommy dorostová, i.e. pressure from both sides - as it was with my children, and the crucial thing that decided whether they would go to the first class when they reached the age of six or not was whether their kindergarten classmates would go to the first class. That was the crucial argument on which we made our decision. And basically the eldest went to first grade, he wasn't six years old yet, just because he was crying crazy that his classmates, who he went to kindergarten with for three years, would go to that first class, and he thought it was incredibly damaging that he wouldn't get there. On the other hand, it was a little different with the other kids. But the main criterion was that their classmates went to first class, and they wanted to continue with the collective. [[12.00 hours]] And, of course, I absolutely sign up for what was said here that even though my mother-in-law is a teacher, even though my mother is a pediatrician and a teenager, and she has dealt with this issue for a long time, they eventually put on the recommendation of a kindergarten teacher who said it would be good to just wait, etc., and we took into account a number of other things that cannot be fully incorporated and inserted into one simple legislation. I'm gonna quit stalling. On the basis of these case reports, I would like to sum up. There are incredible differences between children. There are huge differences between little boys and little girls. Whoever has a little girl and a little boy, you know that. There are huge differences between how to provide a kindergarten in a big city such as Prague, Brno, and how to provide a kindergarten in a small town where there are 800 people, where there are basically no kindergarten in the village or in the town, in the heirloom. Therefore, I very much intercede for this law to be reopened so that we can debate it and make it so that it takes account of all these differences and that it is as useful for our fellow citizens as possible and for those little kids who are often really excited about kindergarten because they have their friends there, they have their first love there and they have their aunts there. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u25	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. The appearance of my colleague, Mr Válek, raised three factual points. The first is Mr David Kasal, then Mr Václav Klaus, and then the Minister, who also failed to endure the tension of the situation and claims a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u26	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. A colleague of Mr. Válek brought up one more thing in me that I wanted to deliver before, but it wouldn't be enough time for me anyway. We're talking about the education of these children. And of course, here we can agree that a two- and a three-year-old will definitely have a different one. But let's take the reality again. What's kindergarten? Kindergarten isn't just about education, folks. There are really social interactions. There are other matters. And if I take it upon myself, then if all these things should be taken into account, then if it should even be under education. I don't want to bring up another debate. But the stay of children in pre-school facilities is done by multifactorial matters. It's not just education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u28	Hello. Looks like we're gonna make it to the vote by lunchtime. So I just wanted to make it short. I thank Mr Válek for his nice assessment. I'm always very fond of listening to his very erudized interpretations about medicine and recipes. I also think there's a little white crow here. I'd just like to terminally correct him for not saying "after" and "not after" but the termologically it's "after" or "after spa." It's just that. [[Fun in the hall.]] As far as Mr Kasal is concerned, Mr Kasal, by your means, we are talking about education, because social interactions are also needed at university. Maybe my dad recognized my mom at the Spanish Academy of Everything. So social interactions are everywhere. But this is a school bill, we're talking about education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u29	I thank Mr Václav Klaus for his time on the point of fact. Now, Minister of Education Robert Plaga, with a factual remark. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u30	Good noon. I wanted to respond to Mr Kasal. In my opinion, the individual approach is currently in Section 34, where it is usually from three to six years old, but first for children from two years old. That means, that's on the individual assessment. And now we're talking about abolishing the whole thing. So I think it's going back to the original state, virtually. The 2020 obligation that arises there is not entirely happy. And the second part of the factual note is already gone, because I also wanted to say that we say "po o" and "po spa." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u31	I thank the Minister of Education. Now another point in fact by Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u32	Thank you for the floor. Only to Mr Klaus. I get it, but that's a two- or three-year-old kid who doesn't understand it's education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u33	Yes, well, thank you. The time has been observed more than well. We're good to go. Now, Mr Pavel Jelínek. My colleague Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u34	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, colleagues. I really like the working atmosphere of this point, and I believe that a substantive debate will also go to other amendments that will respond to changes in education made in the previous parliamentary term. But inclusion is not a topic today, which is why I want to comment on two parts of the proposed amendment. The first part talks about changing the guarantee of the placement of children in kindergartens from the age of two. I'm sure most of us were lucky enough to have met children two years of age in her life. However, this fact alone does not make us experts on this issue. As not everyone who owns a computer, a cybernetics expert, so the parent is not an education expert. However, development psychology also talks about the need for maximum contact between parents and children up to the age of three. So far, a system of parental contribution is set up that allows and supports this fact. Of course, there are cases where a career will prevail over the child's natural needs, or when the financial situation of parents will force the child to be entrusted to other people's care. Yes, the need to put the child away and go to the belt to make it possible to pay a mortgage is real for some parents. But kindergarten is not the right place for a child to spend his age between the second and third years of his life. There are great differences between children's psychomotor abilities at this time. Their hygiene habits are also completely different. And kindergarten just isn't equipped for that. It's not just the investments we've been talking about, they've been mentioned many times. It's about the knowledge and skills of the staff. The kindergarten is part of the educational system and according to this, the teacher's knowledge and abilities are set accordingly. I'll use a classic school equivalent. We can't count or add pears with apples. Care for a two-year-old child has completely different requirements than the education of three-year-olds and older children. That is why I am completely opposed to the position of two-year-olds in kindergarten. And I will be happy if there are suggestions in committee debates on how to deal with these cases as well. Second point or second part of the proposal - cancellation of the obligation to attend the last year of kindergarten. I have to admit, it was a dilemma for me. More and more delays, the inability to maintain the level of teaching in the first classes is a reality with which a compulsory kindergarten could help. But where's the responsibility and the choice for parents gone? Many parents already calculate that the school will not only educate their children but also educate them. Any extension of obligations will automatically trigger a weakening of the natural development of habits for the possibility of entering the first class of primary school. Let us please put this proposal on the committees so that the debate on preparatory years, about the zero years, which have had excellent results in placing weaker pupils in the first classes, can be launched. Let's find an appropriate solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u35	I thank Mr Pavel Jelínek. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, let me, too, make a long contribution to the debate today. I would like to start by saying that we clearly support the abolition of the overall guarantee of the admission of two-year-olds to all kindergartens since 2020, and we support only voluntary option in the pre-school education system. The discussion of this amendment clearly demonstrates the unsystematicness and fragmentation of family policy. The state is literally destroying this area with further legislative regulations, and pre-school education is part of it. [[12.10 hours]] It is important and decisive that the state should clearly define the direction it wants to take, whether it will encourage families to be at home with children at least two to two and a half years old, or whether it wants to use the parental allowance granted to care for children under three years of age to babysit them. Yes, a family should always have a free choice, a choice that is best for each family. In practice, we perceive that there is a great hunger for institutions where children can be at least two years of age, and unfortunately, it has been unsystemically resolved to place two-year-olds in preschool education in kindergartens where conditions are not suitable for these children, because really two-year-olds cannot be educated. The alternative for children under the age of three is also our criticized children's groups, which should be targeted, even legislatively, only for children under the age of three, so that they can then enter kindergartens in the form of high-quality preschool education. We also have a long-term warning that we are in favour of the rebirth of the institution. I believe that children's groups should only be one of the possible alternatives for children under the age of three and the main and liaison organisation for these children should again be a nursery. However, we cannot support the other two changes - the abolition of general compulsory preschool education for all children from the age of five years. We are led by the terrain as well as by the surveys carried out, which show that the child who visits preschool attendance in the last year is much better matched with social differences, and the socialization of the child is one of the main jobs of the kindergarten and has a much better start in the educational career in primary education. We see the payment of the last year's preschool education as very unfortunate. If we want children to be better prepared to enter primary school, the obligation for them to attend the last year of kindergarten is essential. Practice brings us a lot of insight. It is, for example, the capture of various dysfunctions, such as graphomotors, the successful diagnosis of each child by a teacher, the detection of visual defects, hearing and, on the contrary, the individual development of gross and light motoring. Great emphasis is also placed on the correct pronunciation and speech. Often children don't know hot food. rohlík is a friend every day. They don't know soup and main dish, hygiene habits during the day, they can't cut, paint. And why is that? Because they just don't do it at home with their parents. I would also like to point out that the legislation already in force has caused considerable confusion in the personnel field of kindergartens. They do not receive adequate funding for the necessary nanny and often the kindergartens are built before the possible dismissal of a special educator. There is, of course, much more, and I think that if there was a chance to let the teacher from kindergarten speak, we would hear a lot of spicy words, although it is not common in their vocabulary. But the anger, the helplessness, the resignation to the system itself, or even to help from its umbrella ministry, it's really big. Let's try to forget about party t-shirts once and interview the experts from practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u37	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, and now Mrs Gajdůškovášková will perform, Mr Pour will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u38	Hello, Mr President, Madame Members. I see who's here from the government. I must start by saying that I understand very and very much the concerns of kindergarten schools. I talked to the teachers, the heads of kindergarten. I'm an original elementalist. It's not much use, so I'll translate - I taught first class in my teaching practice. It's been a long time, but that's what stays in a man and he doesn't forget that. In my speech, however, I would like to touch on the issue a little more widely. Let's think about what needs to be done in relation to pre-school education, but especially in relation to children in that pre-school education age, i.e. within six years. We as a society must ensure three basic conditions, three basic things. These are the conditions for healthy development of children, second conditions for families and for what is called reconciliation of family and professional life, especially for mothers, and third conditions in kindergartens themselves to establishers, but also, of course, school workers, teachers and other workers could meet the conditions that we want them to meet as a society. To point one - healthy development of children. Of course, developmental psychology is quite obvious - within three years the child's personality is being created and there, of course, needs the care of the family to the greatest extent possible, but we also have to say that within three years the child will learn the most in life compared to the next life, it is very sensitive and it is not true that within three years we have only to care for the child and to change it. It's just not like that! The child needs to be cared for so that it needs to be developed, its personality developed, because it is here and at this age that it is being shaped. I must add that, of course, if two-year-olds are to be in kindergarten, they are really debatable. There would be a need to create appropriate conditions, and I will comment on that. What I cannot agree with, however, is that we cancel the last year's obligation before school attendance for the child to go to a pre-school facility. Why? Because it's not just a question of whether a child can already do a letter or whether he can count, but what's essential and what doesn't replace the most qualified parent is what's called professional socialization. These are the contacts with the other kids, and that's the behavior with the children's team, the communication with the children's team, you can't really replace that with the best will. Two brief examples, stories from a teacher's practice, from my own, then. I got a little girl in the first class, who was already writing somewhere 1984-1985, who didn't go to kindergarten, even though most of the kids went to kindergarten back then. She didn't go to kindergarten because they lived somewhere in a military retreat and she just couldn't. The little girl was intelligent, her parents were college students. Really handy. But she had a big problem because she couldn't move between kids. The only thing she was stressed about was being in the collective. And it's handicapped her all through first grade, and as far as I know, even further. Second example. Very handy boy, Rostík was named, whose mother was a teacher, but they were mostly abroad for a year because the father was an expert who worked abroad. His mom taught him, she was a national school teacher, so she was highly qualified for that moment. Rostik was great. He's an excellent manager today, but he had a big problem in class because he wasn't able to keep up the pace he was in normal class. He didn't have time to watch the teacher give any instructions to all the kids when it wasn't his. He just had a problem, and completely. So it's not that, it's not that individual education is the best thing. There's a missing b. There's missing that stay in the children's group. [[12.20 hours]] And here, through Mr President, on Mr Bauer. I'd love to meet that daddy he was talking about last night, how cool it is that they educate their kids themselves, and how handsome that boy is for a lot of things. I would really ask if he is so handy and how it works in the relationship between other children and how it will possibly be in adulthood. About that part again, I'd say what I said yesterday. We deal with the consequences of the total destruction of the nursery and the conservative ideology that the mother is supposed to be at home with the child - I will exaggerate - until I am 15 years old, but certainly until she goes to school, and she is supposed to take care of the children, the household, the husband. Under this ideology, the nursery was abolished. And today we're looking for a way to make what is the second role that the state has to deliver, and that's what it's called a reconciliation of a family and professional career. You know, when we look at numbers that show demographic developments, i.e. birth rates in the Republic, it turns out that people don't have as many children in our country as they want, but as many children as they think they can. Roughly one. The average birth rate is 1.4 or so. Maybe a little more. But they're not even the two that would ensure the normal reproduction. We say we don't have people, that we have to recruit strangers to even ensure the company's operation. Better would be a good pro-population policy. And the best pro-population policy, i.e. the best and most effective, most effective measure for people to have as many children as they really want to have to be happy, because a child is the fulfillment of life, is happiness for a family who wants to have the baby, so that a woman doesn't have to think about whether to take care of the baby and sacrifice her career, or to make a career, and that child won't. It shows up in international comparison. Where these options to ensure care for the child are, the birth rate is very high. I remember France, I remember Scandinavian countries. On the contrary, it is quite surprising that where the conservative family model is, there is a low birth rate, facing it there. So that's point two. To ensure these conditions, we need pre-school facilities. We need facilities that are fully devoted to children, ensure their development and help families in child care, of course. And the third point is the terms... The third role of society is the conditions for kindergarten schools and founders so that they can make this requirement compulsory pre-school... that last preschool year in kindergarten to ensure, but also, if we can't find another way to give Mommy the opportunity to take care of those children over two years old, how to do it. Let me remind you here that it was a government of social democracy, and it was up to us to reduce the direct work of children in kindergartens so that they could really focus on the management and organisation of nursery school work. We propose a reduction in the number of children in classrooms and insist on creating the conditions for teaching and ensuring the conditions of the law by 2020 before the law is to come into force at all. Mrs Valachová spoke of the proposed amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, we're dealing with the school code. It is intended to provide conditions for the education and education of children. I am convinced that there must be a child at the heart of our interests. Our goal, shared, must be education in society. And the role of the state is to do everything that I've talked about is also in line with the wishes and fantasies of the parents. But also that both the founders and the educators have the conditions to fulfil the roles, the three roles - healthy children's development, the ability to reconcile work life and careers and the conditions in kindergartens themselves -. To ensure these conditions by 2020, we will submit our own amendment to the bill. We will strive to ensure that the measures that will lead to this are also taken by the Ministry. Thank you for your patience, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u39	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. There is one factual point by Mr Ferjenčík. And I would like to point out that after his performance, if it takes two minutes, we will not launch another debate, because we have a fixed point, a motion for a change in the composition of the House of Deputies, and there we have decided by resolution that we will begin this point 55 at 12.30. So the plaintiffs and the rapporteur will take a moment's break before we discuss this point. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u40	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Gajdůšková through Mr President. She attacked the individual education here. But that's what the law allows for today. Well, I'm very glad it makes it possible. I think that a general ban on home education or some alternative approaches to education would be a huge mistake. I'm glad it survived the last term, although there was a lot of pressure to cancel. So I'm not going to agree with her here. And I'm pointing out that at the moment, it just doesn't work the way you say it does. The fact that it is written in the law that it is a compulsory preschool year does not mean that children from socially excluded localities really go to those kindergartens. That the objective of the law is not fulfilled at all, for which we have imposed bureaucracy on all the other parents and kindergartens and municipalities associated with compulsory preschool attendance. Just the overwhelming majority of the children who were supposed to get into kindergarten because of the law didn't get there. And that's the trouble. I think the solution is that, as we tighten up social services' behavior towards those families, we start taking these kids away, or I don't know how you're gonna do it any other way, it's not right. I think we just don't have to start communicating directly with those parents on an individual level and convince them that it's useful for them to send the kids there, without that, we just can't move forward. In order to do so, we did not solve any problems, on the contrary, we caused a number of other problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u41	Well, thank you for keeping the time to make a point. One more point in fact, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, but I would like to point out that she is only allowed until 12:30. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u42	Thank you. I'm sorry, but I have to respond. Firstly, as regards socially excluded localities and whether or not the last preschool compulsory year helped is an analysis of Man in distress that says something other than what my previous speaker said. First of all. Secondly, I merely drew attention to the pitfalls of individual education. Of course, let parents have that opportunity. I'm just warning you that, first of all, it's not that simple, it's not black and white, and second, if it's a trend that we let kids educate at home, it's those kids and those families that can't handle it at all that are capable of taking advantage of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-002-008.u43	Thank you, the time has not been exceeded. It is 12.30 and, according to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to thank Mr Václav Klaus for a moment, thank the rapporteur, Mr Lukáš Bartoň. Let's open a point.
