ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u1	169. Oral inhalation The next item is oral questioning, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members who will perform and submit oral interviews was drawn first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the government from 16.00 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I draw attention to all Members of the Government and to those who are intersected, that if the interpelling of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is exhausted, the intersecting of other members of the Government will immediately begin. I now give the floor to Mr Lukáš Bartoň, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Mr. Ivan Bartoš will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u2	Thank you. First interpelation this school year. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether, according to the government, it is okay that neither the Ministry nor the government has long complied with its obligations under the law. Specifically, I'm following up on my interview with the Ministry of Education from June. Section 3 of the Education Act clearly states that the Ministry of Education processes the National Programme of Education, discusses it with selected experts in science and practice, with relevant central trade unions, relevant employers' organisations with national competence and with regions and presents it to the Government for discussion. The Government is submitting the National Education Programme to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of Parliament for approval. This has not happened in 14 years' time and does not happen in your government. What is the meaning of legal obligations when neither the Ministry nor the government fulfills them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u3	Thank you for keeping time. And now Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u4	Hello, everyone. Thank you for asking. That's an interesting interpellation. You said yourself it was 14 years ago. I think it's been since 2006. Since 2006 the Ministers of Education were Kopicová, Kuchtová, Liška, Dobeš, Fiala - you can ask him, Štys, Chládek, Valachová and now Plaga is there. Plaga's been there since 11. 7. We have a new coalition partner, you may have noticed. We reckon we'll be there till the end. We'll see. I'm totally rooting for it. We certainly want to present the National Education Programme. Education is crucial to us. We certainly need to be clear and maybe make some fundamental changes in education, say priorities, and maybe make some greater competencies for directors and teachers and fewer states, industrialists and agriculture and health, from regions such as. under the ministry and finally a dual system that we've all been talking about for a long time, and nothing happened. I'm just gonna ask you to be patient. We will certainly present such a strategic document. I, too, personally consulted some Members, the opposition, the ODS, the SPD and others. I don't even know if you're in charge of education. We can take you in. I suppose the Minister needs everyone to advise him because education is a long time. And, of course, we have a big problem. We don't have people, we have college students. That's changed. When I went to college, it was kind of hard. Today, whoever doesn't do college will do it on private. We've got problems like inclusion. Last time, I was shocked that even if someone didn't graduate, they could complain through the Ombudswoman, and we were discussing with the government that the Ministry wasn't on time. In our day, the school principal graduated. When we had long hair, they gave us five crowns to go to the barber. When we sang falsely, I got slapped. There was no inclusion. The crap that we've put into education here, that we're funding private kindergarten, middle school, but no longer high, and college actually determines their own salaries, etc. There's a lot of trouble. I went to Finland to see it on the spot. There are ten candidates for a teacher's job in Finland. The most prestigious profession is there. And they're clear on that. They don't even have an inspection. They don't. There were 50 pupils and four teachers in the class. Even we wrote it into a vision of the school's mission. The school's job is to know what the child's talent is. But I don't want to tell you my blade theory and marshmallow candy test for university, etc. Education is definitely, and we want to do it. And if you're gonna be there, we're just gonna be happy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u5	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the Member if he wants to ask the Prime Minister an additional question. He does. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u6	Thank you for your answer. I will not ask the previous questions, I am an MP for less than a year, i.e. with your government, so I'm turning to your government. Thank you for the commitment that the National Education Plan will be submitted, and if I may add the question, until when. What is the term, what is the view that this plan will be presented?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister will want an additional answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u8	You could ask Chairman ODS Fiala, he was the Minister of Education, what he did there. He's so engaged in foreign policy. I don't know why. He should get involved. Education is the most important thing for us. I can't make the deadline, but if we take it that we had eight ministers and we did nothing, and I promise you we'll do it again, and we'll do our best if you give us some advice, so we'll do our best as soon as possible. But I don't want to make any promises. If we did it next year, it'd be great. That ends 31. 12. 2019. Everyone heard it, even Plaga hopefully, but I'm gonna text him now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u9	Thank you. Before we move on to another interpelation, a series of apologies arrived. Mr Richter apologizes from 17:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes between 14 and 19 o'clock because of negotiations in the electoral region. Mr Bartošek apologizes from 15 a.m. to the end of the day. And she apologizes to Mrs Urbanová between 14 and 19 on account of the hearing. Mr Ivan Bartoš, who was drawn in second place, will speak with further interpellation in the case of the Civil Service Act. Mr Vlastimil Válek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u10	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, your amendment to Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on the Civil Service, got under the sharp criticism of the European Commission, the Trade Union of State Institutions and Organisations and also a number of experts. In the long term, the pirát are also constructively criticizing it. Why? This amendment clearly strengthens the political influence in the state administration and brings a disproportionate sense of uncertainty and demotivation among civil servants. The proposed regulation substantially increases the risk of recalling uncomfortable civil servants who are experienced and immune to the politicisation of their work. Furthermore, there is a risk that people whose political loyalty will be the main criterion of choice will be placed on key positions. Last but not least, this proposal increases the government's influence on the Deputy Minister for Civil Service and the Secretary of State and makes it impossible for selected positions to object to the service assessment. It follows from all of this that the amendment goes against the objectives of the Service Act, which was to depolitize the state administration and its subsequent professionalisation. In this context, I would like to ask you the following question: In what way did the government respond to the criticism of the European Union, the Trade Union of State Institutions and Organizations and the Czech Pirate Party? Because this question has already been raised here before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u11	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u12	Thank you for asking. Let's go back to history. We were actually the last ones in Europe who didn't have the Civil Service Act. When we joined, our coalition government 2014, so we were told that if we want to draw European money, we must do so. Of course, I fundamentally reject your thesis, because I think I was a clear example of the Minister of Finance who never had anybody in the Ministry of Finance from the ANO movement. Not even in the supervisory boards of companies that I had in competence and which I drove, such as Chepro, Mero, airport etc. So I'm sure it's not us who want to push somebody. Even our government has - now I don't know how many, about 9 ministers, of which 6 are not members of the YES movement. Mr. Kněžínek, Mrs. Schillerová, Mrs. Dostálová is not even... So it's not with us that the minister is depending on how the county would like, they don't even dare. In our country, it's not like traditional parties, and we don't have a bunch of people we need to stab somewhere. When we first started as a coalition government, the traditional parties came to us and the deputies - and we don't like it, we didn't even have people. We actually inherited them mostly. We didn't have an MPSV except for the deputy, now I don't even know her name properly... Excuse me? [[Help - Mr.Faltynek: Hanzlíková.]] Hanzlíková. Well, that's our only nominee. So here you are creating some kind of atmosphere that we were doing some cleaning. If you're not in it, and you're a minister, and you have a state secretary who does what he wants - he doesn't go to work, he's an social worker, a mother who has a home office, he threatens, and that's the kind of person we have, a state secretary. And if you have a subordinate who doesn't work well, which caused the damage, then why don't you explain how we're supposed to replace him? And we've been fighting that for a long time. We talked to the European Commission x-times. I even offered to discuss this with Commissioner Creta, but I was forbidden to do so, so Mrs Dostálová went there. When it's all nonsense. It's absurd for a minister to be there in numbers to actually do what the Secretary of State wants. So he can't de facto, when he's dissatisfied with a direct subordinate, so he can't replace it. So try to have fun with Adam Vojtěch, who may have been leading there since February - he asked for some disciplinary action and now we're waiting for the highest official. Because Mr. Postránecký highest official is more than the government. More! It's totally top! Ah, here's the minister. [[To the appointed minister who is now entering the hall:]] You can tell Mr. Bartoš what a great state secretary you have there, who - when he's at work, he doesn't go to work, and when he's on vacation, he goes to work. And he does what he wants. He even nominates a deputy. Without him! What's the minister for? So we didn't succeed in the state service. And you're going to say, yes, we were there. I'm applying, it's wrong. Of course, we want good people in the public service. Good people. That means it's hard to get good I.T.s today, we're not able to get lawyers, economists. We're struggling with all this. So we only proposed to change the modification of the selection procedures and open competitions to individual categories, yes, to a wider range of people. Why should the government be in the position that they're superhumans? And Mr. Středula? Mr. Středula, he would actually want no one to work and we'd only get money. That's probably his concept. And now I'm not gonna argue that he's still campaigning for the president, probably. Our economy is in some kind of a situation. I just invited all the biggest foreign investors to dinner on Tuesday. We talked about the 250 billion dividends that are leaving, and what is the situation that our suppliers don't have people. We become untrustworthy suppliers, etc. So if we're gonna run the state effectively and the clerk isn't working, for example, the deputy at the MIT that actually... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] ... has also caused us to lose money, so of course we just wanted to ask that, after the Minister's arrival, at least one official, if it didn't work, we could trade. Well, I think that's normal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u13	I thank and ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. He's interested, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u14	I thank the Prime Minister. I would just repeat the final question, because we are the history of the Service Act, which was a condition for the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, but started to pay with deferred effect, we followed it. But my question was different, Prime Minister. From the European Union - and I think you even met with Mrs Creta last week - I don't know if you were discussing only money or even this law - there were clear reservations from the European Union about the amendment you are now coming up with, which was just at that time short of the possibility of replacing the civil servant, tightening the classification during the evaluation. And the same particular reservations came from the union. It's not a question of money. So if these reservations were made by Secretary Dostálová, who was there, or your government as a whole, in some way reflected. If there's an answer to this criticism, if it was reflected in your amendment to the Civil Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u15	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u16	Of course, we have dealt with them repeatedly. And today, what Středula wants, officials have. Five weeks vacation, sick days, home office, and it's warm, so go home etc. They're complaining. When I joined the government office, I've been working 15 hours and there's no one there after eight hours... I've been looking at such a great official, so he's got 20 minutes of overtime in a month. So I know it's a different world. Let somebody try to go into the private sphere. And we consulted. The European Commission has a position, and we certainly want it to change so that they do not dictate everything to us. Mrs Cretu came - yes, we discussed, the debate was that we wanted to determine where the money from Europe would go. Not that they're dictating the European... ESF. Now it was on one server - a seminar where they drew some sex organs and consumed bread. That's how you spend your money from Europe. [[14.50 hours]] So our concept is that the Member States will take the lead, not Mr Juncker and the Commission. And that's what we want to change so that we can have a major influence there. We won't be in the position of a servant, a subordinate. Yeah, that's how it's built up, but we pay $50 billion a year there, and we get, of course. So that's what this is about, and we discussed it, and look at Slovakia. A completely different system. Only we have this system that tied our hands, and we want to run the state efficiently and allow outsiders - not that the officials are recycled - that I got rid of one of the clerks at the Treasury, because the day before I got there, she was still doing some weird land transactions with the reporter. [[Time, Prime Minister.]] Then I found her at the Office of the Government, and I thanked her again, and then she showed up at the Minister of Industry. So it's recycled, and when we're looking for someone, there's almost no one to report because they're still the same officials. We need to open up the state administration so people from the outside can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u17	Thank you. With another interview on the National Theatre Brno, Mr Vlastimil Válek will perform. Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. When I'm afraid to ask, I hope it's not interpelare. I don't think I have an interpellation as a modest question and suggestion. There are 19 institutions of various cultural, which are contribution organizations of the Ministry of Culture, and four others, which are in the section of professional art, e.g. Prague Philharmonic Choir and others. National Theatre Brno, respectively. The building of Janáček's opera and ballet was reconstructed with a amount of 1 billion. CZK, I think it was slightly higher, and thus it becomes one of the biggest scenes in the Czech Republic, which also has a relatively fundamental international cast in the field of soloists both opera and ballet. My question is whether the government is considering or not discussing the government to take this institution into the professional art section directly under the Ministry of Culture with basically the same logic as being financed by the university hospitals through the Ministry of Health and the large universities through the Ministry of Education, so I think that this path would be the right one. In this is my question, virtually. Interpelation on you, Prime Minister. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u19	Thank you, and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u20	Thank you for asking. Of course, we have the problem that we have to coordinate individual activities, because we have a self-government, i.e. regions have their contribution organizations, cities, municipalities, state, the same thing with hospitals etc. The Ministry of Culture, the priority, of course, is the restoration of cultural monuments, it has a connection to tourism and, of course, we want to support live art, but I don't know about it. I'm sure Brno is a city that has big plans for culture. There is a unique Janáčkův concert hall built there, whose project was made by a world-famous architect. Brno is certainly a cultural city, but I do not have such information, I can only tell you that the National Theatre Brno by the Ministry of Culture received non-investment subsidies in 2018. They received 13.5 million per year, i.e. 3% of total costs. Then there is a grant for the Janáček Brno festival, which is 9.5 million, and a subsidy for the Brno Theatre World, that is 2 million. They got $25 million in total. This is support from the Ministry of Culture, and I don't have that kind of information. I think the city of Brno is trying to invest large sums in the culture, but I'm sure I'll refer your question to the Minister of Culture in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u21	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u22	Maybe I just want to be more specific about what I meant. If one billion were invested in the state budget, relatively large money goes to subsidies, it would seem reasonable and strategic to me than to finance such a big scene from the city of Brno's budget, to get the scene, perhaps some others, directly under the financing of the Ministry of Culture and really turn them into institutions that are dignified, like universities, like faculty hospitals. It's purely a question of strategy in culture. This is just a proposal to consider, and please only if there has been no discussion about it in order for this discussion to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u23	The Prime Minister will answer an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u24	So that's the strategy of how we split the taxes, the RUD, and we all got the RUD and the regions, the municipalities, the cities. We, of course, have debt as a budget, although one of the lowest in Europe, but the municipalities, cities, regions now had 220 billion in their accounts at the end of June. Yes, we have a great budget for self-government and, of course, by collecting more and more taxes - and so will the case of 2019 - so they will get even more, while our spending will continue to grow. So the situation between the state and the self-government is that we have the debts, we have more and more spending, they - and that, of course, depends on how they manage, and some manage great, some have plans that they don't want to have any debt, they don't want to borrow. So it's a debate about using the money, but we need to agree together to make those investments and make everyone participate. So I understand what you said, I'm surprised the state put a billion in it when it's not in his possession. We have learned, for example, that we own the castle Litomyšl. There is even a 2002 Government resolution that requires the government to fix it. Someone forgot about that. The state has enough assets and the need to invest in the restoration of cultural monuments is close to 100 billion. However, I will discuss your proposal with the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u25	Thank you for keeping up the time and with further interpellation on subsidies to those who are about to close the audition, Mr Šafránková will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u26	Good afternoon, thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, since the Minister of Industry and Trade is excused this week, my interpellation from a citizen who works at the Financial Authority will be directly on you, because I have no doubt about your knowledge of subsidies. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is one of the largest providers of European subsidies in the Czech Republic. Over the last ten years, billions of crowns have been distributed to entrepreneurs. It is a sad fact that insolvency registers of regional courts are full of such recipients of subsidies. In many cases, the subsidies were received and received by entities that immediately ended up in bankruptcy, and the assets acquired for the subsidy funds are disappearing irreversibly, and, in a better case, creditors are partially satisfied with its sale and the remuneration of the insolvency administrator. Prime Minister, how will you ensure that such subjects do not receive subsidies in the future? How do you ensure that the State's claims on the beneficiaries are applied in due time to insolvency courts? Is there anyone in your ministry who monitors the insolvency register in relation to the recipients of subsidies from the Ministry of Industry and Trade? How do you ensure that the Ministry starts applying the institute of withdrawal procedure according to budgetary rules? And one more question from the citizen directly to you. Ten years have passed since the outbreak of the last financial crisis. In view of the expected state budget deficit of this year, about 40 billion. CZK would be interested in whether the Czech Republic has financial reserves created and to what extent in the event of another crisis, which necessarily has to come with regard to economic cycles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u27	So I'm glad that through you asks the citizen, the employee of the financial administration. That's interesting. And he's talking about the crisis. I don't know why we're still haunted by the crisis. Of course, we went to those regions to make an investment plan for the first time in the history of this country, no one did. Not even the vision. And our crisis, the Lehman Brothers, it actually took place on the Czech road. These were actually all commercial banks, state internet and bankruptcy and ended up in the Czech Consolidation Agency. So, yes, we have a great dependence on exports and imports into the EU. But on the other hand, the growth that is given by consumption and exports can actually be replaced by investment. So, of course, we have to count on it. That means we're doing some kind of export policy. And we're having a crisis where people aren't actually on the job. We have the lowest unemployment, 30,000 job vacancies, and this is becoming a really big problem. As far as subsidies are concerned. Well, of course, that's the problem with individual ministries. This means that for the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is aware of the issues mentioned - in the challenges of the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, the rule is laid down that the entity for which it has been decided on its bankruptcy cannot be the applicant or beneficiary of the subsidy. According to the decision to grant the subsidy, the subsidy provider is then entitled to suspend payments, to repay the subsidy if insolvency proceedings have been initiated with the beneficiary. At the same time, in the period five years following the completion of the project, no decision may be taken to declare the bankruptcy of the beneficiary's assets and the beneficiary of the subsidy shall not enter into liquidation. If that is not complied with, the subsidy provider shall suspect a breach of budgetary discipline and, in such a case, the project shall be investigated by the subsidy provider as an irregularity, in accordance with established procedures in accordance with the legislation and methodologies concerned. The subsidy provider shall report such cases immediately in accordance with these regulations to the competent authorities of the Financial Administration, which are competent for further proceedings under the tax rules. The subsidy provider thus acts in accordance with Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws, as amended. The subsidy provider does not have a legal instrument for the recovery of funds affected by a breach of budgetary discipline. The competent authority of the Financial Administration shall be responsible for the recovery of such funds. Of course, the subsidy providers are workers who specialize in these cases, the irregularities and follow their course. It is, of course, also the effort of the subsidy provider to avoid granting subsidies to risk subjects. This includes the economic evaluation of each individual project of the applicant. It is assessed whether the applicant is able to implement the project of the scope submitted. To the institute of withdrawal, we note that this is a means by which beneficiaries of the subsidy can be withdrawn. The question seems to be directed towards the use of this institute, in particular according to the provisions of § 15 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) budgetary rules. In this context, it should be pointed out that the subsidy provider can benefit under this provision from his right to withdraw the subsidy if he finds that the purpose for which the subsidy was granted cannot be fulfilled properly or in good time, but only on condition that there is no breach of budgetary discipline at the same time. The competent authority of the Financial Administration shall be responsible solely for establishing whether the infringement has occurred. Therefore, the subsidy provider cannot initiate this procedure under this letter until the budgetary discipline has been violated. In general, we note that the institute of withdrawal is used by the subsidy provider in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u28	I thank you for keeping time and answer. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u29	Prime Minister, I am not sure that this answer will be quite sufficient for the citizen. However, I would still like to ask, because this issue concerns not only the Ministry of Industry but also trade, but also other subsidy administrators, other public authorities, so I want to ask if you have any statistics in the government, how many subsidy recipients ended up in insolvency, after individual resorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u30	Thank you. The Prime Minister will be interested in an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u31	Well, if the citizen isn't happy, I'll buy him a cup of coffee, and you can text me, and I'll meet him and I'll call some experts. And I'm sure we have statistics. So if you want it, I'll ask Secretary Dostálová to give it to you. At least I hope we have her. But I suppose logically we should be watching this. [[Messenger. Saffránková from the bench agrees with the Prime Minister that she would be interested in providing statistics.]] Sure, I'll send it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u32	Thank you. And with further input on dilettantism, Mr Dominik Feri will speak. Mr. Jakub Michálek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. A few months ago, the government presented its proposal for a discounted fare for students and seniors. It began to pay September 1st, and a few days later the articles began to be published. [[He's showing the papers.]] České dráhy makes good money on discounts for students and pensioners. Or: Carriers found tricks to get more money for discounts on fare. Or: Adult for 295 crowns, student for 121. The Czech Railways earn new discounts by changing the calculation of the price of the ticket. I'll quote for an introduction to the story. For example, on the Prague-Ostrava route, there will be an action ticket for an adult to 295 crowns. However, the ticket for students and seniors who can apply a 75 per cent discount will come out at CZK 121. This means that the discount is not calculated from the action amount, but from the normal kilometer tariff, according to which the trip will go to 484 CZK. The state will pay CZK 363 for the ticket on this track. České dráhy will gain CZK 189 more than if an adult without discounts bought the ticket. Well, okay. So now that the government has to come up with such socialist proposals, I'm at least wondering why they're not finished. Why if something starts to pay, then why do the carriers already know how to get around it? In several ways, they know the ways and ways to milk the state budget. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to know who prepared this at the Ministry of Transport and whether he will be personally responsible for the fiasco here. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u34	Thank you. And now Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u35	So, obviously, the colleague is not watching the TV Newspaper Nova, where Minister Tok explained it yesterday. This was a mistake of the Czech Railways, which is why there are also personnel changes and we have fixed it. So the mistake of the Czech Railways and it has been corrected. Well, why did we do that? Come on, 'cause somebody here forgot to build apartments, for example, so when these students are looking for accommodation, it's expensive, so within that discount, when you pay 15 grand. For 2 + kk or something, at least they'll save on the traffic. But I think it'll help the elderly too. So we had it in the program. We have it in a different way than it is in Slovakia or elsewhere. So the mistakes of the Czech Railways. And the consequences that now, I think, will be a tender for the CEO.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u36	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u37	Thank you for your answer, so don't answer it. I didn't ask why the Czech Railways... or who failed. I asked why you failed. You've been preparing this for months. You weren't able to make it. You've dealt with the carriers. I'm asking about failure on your side. And you didn't answer me who prepared it and if he was responsible for it. I don't care about liability on the side of the Czech Railways. The Czech Railways behave market, they want to milk the state budget, you have a lot of experience with that. I'm interested in who failed on your side, on the side of the government, on the side of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u38	Thank you. The Prime Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u39	I see you're a loyal pupil of your teacher, because I haven't heard such a senseless performance in a long time. [[He's laughing.]] One more time, Mr. Ambassador. We had it in the program. Originally we assumed that it would happen with the timetable of České dráhy, which changed, I think on 10 June. And the county told us they weren't ready. So we moved it, and now it's working. And people are happy to drive much cheaper. I know you're upset and every good thing has to be punished. So your question is pointless. Everybody's wrong sometimes, right? You too. But maybe you're still young, so you're not wrong yet. But I'm wrong as an old pensioner, but I'm trying to make up for my mistakes. So the Czech Railways were in error and we hope - now there will be a tender, so hopefully the new management will not make such mistakes, so hopefully that will be the case. I firmly believe that this will be the case. So it's not about the Ministry, it's not about the government, but it's about the deadline being postponed and the Czech Railways didn't make it. They fixed the mistake, I think they publicly apologized. Well, that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u40	Thank you. With further interpellation on "why have you done nothing for electronic circulation of documents at the offices," Mr Jakub Michálek will speak. Ambassador Petr Fiala will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u41	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, fellow Members, I already spoke about this once today, but I suppose the Prime Minister didn't look at it from the record, because he probably has better things to do, but maybe his advisors, his team, worked it out, but I'll do it again just in case. I have turned to the Prime Minister asking how his representatives for digitization are doing, which should address one of the most important problems, and this is the electronic circulation of documents that is needed for the introduction of digitalisation. The answer I have received states that the authorities have an obligation to handle matters electronically. It was sent to me by Prime Minister Babiš on paper, respectively. with a signature on paper, which was subsequently converted, that is, the Prime Minister signs things on paper and employs other officials who must then convert them into electronic form instead of signing all those documents with one electronic signature. I think that if we want to introduce digitalization, we'd need to start with those ministers. That's why I prepared this survey for all the ministers. I'm a little sorry that the Prime Minister didn't answer the fundamental questions in my interview. The first fundamental question was how many authorities already work digitally digitally, so there the Prime Minister replied to me that they have an obligation to operate electronically, but he did not answer how many of them actually work electronically. I don't think the reality is going to be positive. The second answer to the question of what concrete steps the government has taken towards digital circulation of documents is not there either. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So what are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u42	Thank you. Now Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u43	Hello. I expected the pirates to show us something. You guys have had so much talk about the IT that you guys are fantastic experts. So besides the bitcoin mining or what you were doing here, when I asked Dzurilla to meet someone from you, the guy came in and didn't come out of it at all. You just woke up recently and started criticizing us that you had experts, and on the same day, you put an ad out that you were looking for an IT expert. You're so young. You're not supposed to be doing the same policy as Kalousek. You should do something real. Come and show us. You're just talking. And when we told you to come, you quickly applied to the Dzurilla Commission and did nothing. Well, I'm an old man. I sign normally. Look, here's your computer, it's my laptop, no one's gonna hack it, is it? [[Laughs in the hall.]] No cyber attack attack, nothing. Good, huh? So I'm retired, you're young, you've got everything online everywhere. That somebody didn't show us the digitization? Yes, we have an agent, and he's very handy, that Dzurilla. And he has the Prime Minister's support. No one ever did, because he was just a resortist. Internal Affairs, Finance, etc. were fighting. So regarding digitization we have My taxes with the first services in 2020, eJustice, completed procurement documents for the eSpis project, we have eRecept, insolvency agenda module within the eJustice program by 2020, digitization of the building process, which will be created a comprehensive information system for the performance of the building office agenda, which will allow the online availability of all necessary information, the expected date of the first stage 31. 12. 2019, connection of ministries to the citizen portal, connection of the information system of the trade business register, electronic licensing system ELIS, simplified application completion, yes? So we have Project My Tax, yes?, we have eCitizen, Electronic Collection and other projects. So I was at that conference in Hradec Králové, where everyone's been meeting for 25 years, talking about digitization, and now we're doing it. My friend, Estonian Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, will come here in November for an official visit and we will do an eGovernment seminar. And he'll show us how it's done in Estonia. And they have it in Denmark, and we're talking about it. So, of course, you asked about the documents, so they're preparing an analysis of the file service at the inside. In three weeks, we will approve of the government. We are discussing the Chamber of Commerce to involve them in the process. The whole analysis will be done due to the concept of Digital Czechia. We also have settled comments and will approve the material on the government. In the analysis, we will discuss how we have the standard defined, whether we change it, and other aspects of the file service. With regard to electronic circulation, we are preparing again with regard to the concept of Digital Czech Services Analysis, which should be provided by ministries and authorities, and we will plan to digitize a specific plan. We'll prioritize, we can't do everything at once. It is the capacity on the part of officials and financial claims, as well as the civil service, so that they can work more if they want to. So we expect comprehensive implementation plans by 2018. So the sum of the sum, you're always criticizing something, and when you're involved in something, you don't even have the people to do it, so all you have to do is talk: So if you really want to help with that, we're looking forward to finally getting someone involved, and Dzurilla is doing great and has concrete results. So I think we're the first to even do this because the one who was at the Office of the Government, Ondřej Malý, was only there to number, had no position. Dzurilla has the support of the Prime Minister and it is a priority for us, we want to digitize, we want less bureaucracy, we want to make life easier for citizens, companies, businessmen, authorities, everyone. Yes? It's not my fault that the state here invested 125 billion in IT systems, it costs us 25 billion a year, companies occupied the ministries, yes, and that we depended on them, yes, and we inherited all that, and now, finally, under our government, we have an agent, because digitalization is one of our priorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u44	Thank you for your time, and I ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u45	Well, he's not gonna be a complete follow-up question, because what you did here, it was really brainwashing. I asked you what specific results you have in the field of electronic file service. Of those systems that you probably don't even know what they are, the only system that concerns the file service is the building process. And I asked the secretary what you did in five years in a building trial, in his digitalization. She told me that, based on my request, they entered an update of a five-year-old study on the digitization of the building process. So this is the way digitalization works in your government. You've been sitting there for five years at the Ministry of Regional Development, and you don't have any results. You promise to introduce some of my two-year taxes here, and you will present a comprehensive implementation plan in two years. But we're working and we've got results. We have tabled an amendment, look into the system, House document 1275, which introduces electronic circulation of documents on offices since 2021. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Will you support it? The specific proposals that we are making?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u46	I ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u47	All you talk about is demagogic. In the last government, we had six ministers. I was the finance minister who had a surplus budget, reduced his debt, collected taxes, pissed off ODS voters - EET, checking reports. And with that money, we work how we work. Yes. So don't push my stuff... Yes, we did it at the Treasury Department. But during the reign of the former Prime Minister, it wasn't a central strategy. Yes? So you're criticizing something when you say what you're doing. That you're suggesting something? Let's get this done! You have no idea how the government works. You have no idea. So please don't lecture and come here and... If you wanted to get involved, you could've come. No. You only perform here, you criticize everything. But when it comes to breaking bread to do something specifically, you put an ad on your experts. Well, that's all yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u48	Thank you. With the next interview, he should perform... Mr. Chairman Michálek reporting with priority rights? I'm afraid it's not customary during the interpellation. [[Numerous reactions from the diaper that cannot be done during the interpelations. Still, MP Michalek is demanding the words on the microphone. Mr. Petr Fiala explains to him that his time for interpelation has expired, and now there is an automatic follow-up to another interpelation, whether or not he agrees with the Prime Minister's reply. Member Michalek continues to insist on priority rights.]] That would completely break the interpelling system. So I'm going to invite Mr. Petr Fiala to another interview in the matter of the Government's programming statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u49	Dear Prime Minister, in a month it will be one year from the election. You've been Prime Minister for three quarters of a year. Soon you will be in one quarter of your mandate, so it's probably a good time to ask what of your promises you've fulfilled, what laws that help citizens and entrepreneurs, you've presented what your real results are. We, the Civil Democratic Party, keep our promises. We promised to simplify the tax system and reduce the tax system and reduce the income tax. The proposal lies in the House. We promised the tradesmen an increase in spending flats. The proposal is also on the table. Your coalition rejected him yesterday. We promised to simplify the rule of law. Our two proposals are already on the agenda for this meeting. So we keep our promises, we work. Each week we come up with new concrete proposals that have been developed into amendments to the laws. But when I look at the House of Deputies' agenda, there are no such government proposals. And so I ask you, Prime Minister, three specific things. One. In the government's programming statement, you state that you want pension reform - I quote: "We will set up an expert working team for pension reform, evaluate existing proposals, current situation, expected developments and submit a proposal for a solution." When will you present this proposal for a solution? And until when do you want to enforce it? Question two. The statement further states: "We will create a central portal for the state where the citizen can handle everything electronically. " So I'm asking you when you're gonna make it so the citizens are clear. And three. In the preamble to the programme statement, Article 5 entitled "We want to start reform of the state, which means a balanced state budget and a new law on income taxes." But next year, you're planning a budget with a deficit of 40 billion. So I ask you when the Czech Republic will have a balanced budget. I could continue with these questions, I could ask about different stadiums, libraries, and other things you promised. [[Attention on time.]] But I'm asking these three specific questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u50	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u51	Mr President, the Czech Republic even has a surplus budget. Thanks to me. The biggest surplus was 2016. Thanks to the inspection report and the other measures we've taken. And he has a balanced budget. I 2017 was de facto balanced. And this year, it's gonna be similar. So you're still comparing a plan. But we're supposed to talk about fulfillment. The main thing is fulfillment. What's important is what's 31. 12th in the account. Yes? And we've had... we've had surplus since 2016, and we have a de facto balanced budget, even if we're planning a deficit. And why are we planning it? Well, because money from Europe is very difficult to plan, because no one knows how programs will be exhausted, how will the European Commission stand up to it, etc. So I think it's clear. And as for pensions, I'm always amazed when an ODS representative actually asks me about things you could have done a long time ago. So who actually canceled the retirement account? Who actually ran this country for a long time? No? Your side. Your founder, Mr. Klaus. And pension reform - it's been on the committee for a long time, and nothing in particular came out of it. Under our government - and I would just repeat that the government was a minority without confidence from December 14th last year to about, now I don't remember, June, so we are there very briefly... But we have concrete results. I canceled the quota. Everyone was yelling, "We don't want quotas." Well, in six months, I've put them through within the V4. Especially with Prime Minister Orbán. No? He made it. We have promoted the voluntary relocation of refugees. We have pushed for a substantial increase in pensions. That was the proposal of the minority government of the YES movement, which you criticized, that you said we should just drown and shine. And now you're asking me what I did. So we didn't drown enough and we didn't light up. But there are specific results. Digitization. We've decided on a government agent for digitization. Yes, at last, it's being addressed specifically. We've decided on a government sports agent. Yes. We started to deal with overpriced mobile operators' services. Yes. And you know that pension reform... Yes, we have a new government since 11. Seven, there's a new secretary, we met at the level of the team. And the Minister will now present a specific procedure. And you know that pension reform... and that's more like fixing things that have been a problem in the long run. Those old-timers, those professions that are very hard and should retire early. So we're doing it. We're filling up! You guys have always raised taxes and we're cutting them down. We've reduced by 30 billion in the last government. Yesterday, you were re-creating the EET. And EET - out of it was 10 billion. In fact, you tell citizens before the municipal elections: we will not give you money in municipalities and cities, because we do not want EET. EET has brought 10 billion since the creation of 1. 12. 2016. Of which three billion for the municipalities, for the municipalities, so that the mayors could make those investments for those people. And I don't understand why you're blocking it when it's clearly confirmed that it's a great project. It's the only digital project. Realized in record time. And this proposal of yours, I beg you to cancel the super gross wage, so you're kidding me again. I mean, you guys promised people a 15% flat-rate tax. Yes? And then you found out that it didn't work, that you were gonna ruin the budget. Well, you put a basis of 134 there, and it went to 20.1. So you actually cheated the voters, and now you're actually proposing the same thing as you once did in the proposal, and you didn't keep your promise to the voters. And that's the impact of 75 billion in the budget. Then why would you suggest that if you knew it would ruin the budget? And on the other hand, you're begging us that the budget is badly designed and so on. So I don't take it seriously what you're suggesting here. And that government, even if it didn't have confidence, has clear results, has a clear foreign policy. He's finally fighting for our interests. It promotes our interests in the European Commission. And we have concrete results. And the Minister proposes a tax reduction within the EET. [[Attention on time.]] And you don't want to cut taxes? From 21 to 10 percent? We want to give another 4.5 billion to people in tax cuts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u52	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u53	I will be happy to discuss all these questions with you, Prime Minister. Maybe we'll get a chance to have a public debate. But I have asked you three specific questions here, to which I would expect a specific answer, especially from a person who says he runs the government in a managerial capacity. I'm not really questioning it. So I asked you three specific dates. I also asked about the deadline for a balanced state budget, which also means that it will be planned as a balanced budget. But I do not want to debate here that, for example, the Supreme Audit Office notes that the state budget management ended in 2017 with a deficit of CZK 6.2 billion. But I'll ask you two more questions. So when are you going to introduce pension reform? I'm interested in the date and citizens. When will we have a single portal for electronic communication with the state? Those are my specific questions, and I would expect an answer to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u54	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister will give an additional answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u55	I could clearly ask what you've done here since the revolution with Klaus. The Czech road, the coupon, the broken companies, the banks? Why didn't you? You could have done retirement reform. And you know that pension reform must be discussed. At least we'll try. When's the deadline? I don't know, I'm not able to give you a deadline right now. We're discussing this with our coalition partner. From the point of view of digitization - I think yesterday was a seminar organized by Mr Dzurilla. If you want, we'll give you a presentation. In November, the Estonian Prime Minister will come here to present their digitalization, and we will introduce you to what we have already done and what we want to do. It's the first time we've actually dealt with this centrally. I think our results are clear, the plans are clear. Too bad we didn't do it a long time ago, but that was in your hands.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u56	Thank you. With further intervention in the case of legal certainty in the Czech Republic and the calculation of financial compensation pursuant to § 5 para. 2 of Act No. 428/2012 Sb. Výborný. Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u57	Thank you. Prime Minister, colleagues, I would like to begin by saying that I am absolutely fascinated by the Prime Minister's ability to speak, speak, speak and not answer de facto any question he has been asked. That's the world's championship. Now, please ask your question, interpellation. Prime Minister, repeatedly in public space in various of your comments on Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, you state that financial compensation was overpriced by 54 billion. It is noted that Article 15 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation does not apply. The financial compensation to churches and religious societies amounting to 59 billion, i.e. only a difference of 5 billion, is calculated on the basis of the above law. Can you please tell us where you're getting the information from? I would like to ask whether, as Prime Minister or your government, you have relevant professional studies to support this claim. And if you have any idea how this amount was introduced into the law. At the same time, allow me to ask a fundamental question. Dear Prime Minister, how do you see the validity of contracts as prime minister and major entrepreneur? I note that the contract is a bilateral or multilateral legal act consisting of mutual and content identical expressions of the will of the Contracting Parties towards the creation, modification or termination of rights and obligations. Therefore, the content of the contract cannot be changed without the agreement of both Contracting Parties. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask you: Do you consider legal certainty a fundamental attribute of a legal democratic state? Thank you for your clear and specific answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u58	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u59	Thank you for the floor. I'm mostly from public sources. I don't know, where were you on February 3, 2012? Were you in the party or where you were? But I suggest you read Mr. Hašek's speech at 3. 2. 2012. That's where it's all written. I don't want to read it here because it's long: compensation, government valuation, 130 billion, 53 billion. to the detriment of the state, to the detriment of taxpayers - that was the expression. I think it's easy enough to figure out how much land cost, how much a hectare of forest it cost. We can see the consequences today. Try asking the mayor in Březinevs why he can't build a school in the village. There's some land that's been very strangely reconstructed. The restitution was supposed to be solved right after the revolution. What took so long? And do you remember how it was approved? How did the MP - still preaching morale - the Němcová woman cut off the negotiations at half one at night? And how did you approve it? By the vote of a Member of the ODS, who is finally or illegally convicted of corruption. At 12:30 at night. Yes, a very strange meeting. You beat it: 54 billion. an overvalued price for church restitution. And that's it. Nobody's questioning the Church's getting it. I happened to have dinner with Cardinal Duka last night. But that's not what we talked about. I don't know what you're asking. Well, look it up, that's what public resources are for. By the way, we don't even have it in the program, we've been talking about it for a long time. It was the ČSSD flagship in the 2013 election. We were even with you in the government. Then Mr. Sobotka got over it, and then we did some pseudo-commision where we played it like we were dealing with it, but no one wanted to deal with it. And now it's on the table again. We think it's unfair that the state has overpriced the compensation, which is why I think the House will discuss it. I come from public sources. There was another gig. Try reading it. It's a long speech, I don't want to read it here - 3. 2. 2012 at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u60	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u61	Prime Minister, I would expect anything, but that you would argue with Michal Hašek's speech, I really wouldn't. I thought the answer would look different. I don't know if you have any idea that in 2012, by the way, KDU-ČSL wasn't here in the House at the time, so the House set up a commission. The commission had a study conducted by the renowned international company Ernst and Young, and in its conclusion, it found that it was perfectly okay. That's one thing. Second thing. But I think it's a completely intentional lie on your part. It wasn't Mr. Pekárek's voice. Find it, it was a hundred and two votes. Yes, Mr. Pekárek was here, he voted in favour of the law, but it wasn't the decisive vote. It wasn't 101, it was 102. You keep saying that. I know it's handy, I think Mr. Prchal told you it would work for the public, but it's not. You're being pure and populist about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u62	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister is interested in an additional answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u63	Of course, I can track the analysis of how much land cost. I know something about farmland, too. I don't have anything to say. I think it's a clear view, it's documented, it's been analysed. It's been approved strangely. It was arranged strangely. I don't have anything to say. It would be good to publish how this is actually going. The current government - we had a duty in the past to keep the public informed - now Minister Toman, Minister of Agriculture, and Minister of Culture Staněk, and the two of them will oversee it, and they can, of course, inform the public as it goes, when in fact some churches have come, which, in some opinion, are not entitled to it, there have been some obligations. I don't want to deal with this here. I think that this is the subject of discussion in the House, and I am sure that Members will comment on this. That's not the kind of thing I'm a key player for. I made my point. Putting so much cash, putting an inflationary clause in there, I think it's wrong. I just have a different opinion about it. And I argue what I read in public space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u64	Thank you and Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak with further input on the matter of subsidy policy. Mr Valenta will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u65	Dear Prime Minister, you will now decide on all subsidies, which projects deserve support and for which money will no longer be left. It's written and said on your social media. Do I understand correctly that the Mayors of YES who have your phone number are more likely to receive funding because they're just gonna call you? And the other mayors, who are part of the misfortune of their communities, get nothing? There are therefore two categories of municipalities. The ones that your fellow partymen will lead, and the ones that will lead someone else. The first ones will have subsidies, the second ones will not. I consider it clientelistic, discriminatory and reprehensible. Prime Minister, do you have any idea what message you're sending to municipalities and cities? Probably like this: whoever is well with your state side will do well. Whoever doesn't become a party is unlucky. We've had this model before, remember? I do, and I certainly don't want to go back there. If you really want to do something for self-government, increase their share of the income of shared taxes. This will help them, all the municipalities and all the cities. But you certainly should not interfere with the decision-making of individual projects and individual subsidies for municipalities and cities from the prime minister position. Or do you want to interfere and influence the subsidy procedure, and will one phone call be enough to influence it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u66	Thank you, and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u67	Madam, I haven't heard so much nonsense in a long time. But I am so glad that only the ANO campaign has attracted everyone to the local elections. Someone even posted my phones, and they're all texting me and swearing dirty, so I'm glad. You know, that's probably the marketing thing. I'm glad you're intrigued, too, and that you actually support these things. So you said some terrible nonsense here. You know I don't make any decisions about subsidies! And I'm here for everyone! And if any mayor asks for a meeting, that's what I'm doing. In your village The Khans, thanks to the program I invented at the Ministry of Finance, have a new school capacity, a sports hall. That's where you came to introduce yourself, yes, so I don't know. I don't even know who the mayor is. I don't even care. My big Rakušan fan, he's got that kindergarten in Semily. He looks awful. What? Farish, jeez, sorry, sorry. Mr. Farský, he still criticizes me. So, the mayor from Semil, I made an appointment with Mrs. Dostálová. And I'll do it to everyone. Then don't talk nonsense! The fact that there's a campaign and there's something there, we're glad everyone's talking about it, and, of course, I'm available for everyone who asks me for a meeting, so I'm doing it. So it's nonsense that it should be discriminatory. First of all, I don't make decisions, I don't make decisions, and the rules are the same for everyone. Same for everyone. So please don't say that because it's nonsense. But everyone knows I'm trying in some way when people ask me to meet them and somehow point them in the direction. But I've never decided on subsidies, nor will I, you know that. And I don't understand why you're acting like this. You know very well that even the grants for the 150 municipalities around Prague that Kalousek never wanted to give you money, so I did it as the Minister of Finance. In June 2014. And it was objective. It's always objective. I don't care about party jurisdiction. We all have the same rules, and we follow it. So I fundamentally reject what you said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u68	Thank you for not running out of time, and the honourable Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u69	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm glad you said you wouldn't affect any grant proceedings. I don't want to say you said nonsense, too. First of all, you didn't get the grant title at the Treasury. This was arranged by the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of the decision of the Committee on Budgets on our proposal. As far as kindergarten in Semily is concerned, as you don't influence it, the meeting was. You cursed Mr Farský for not being able to arrange the kindergarten, and that you would arrange it in the Semily. And then you sent the mayor to the ministry and told her they'd give her the donation. From the grant title that we in the Chamber of Deputies have raised the votes of all other clubs except the votes YES. So please, who's talking nonsense? [[Attention on time.]] Well, I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u70	The Prime Minister is interested in a follow-up answer, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u71	I don't understand. In fact, you say that it is for Members to decide. Okay. All I'm saying is that I found money for those schools that Kalousek never gave you in the savings of state debt, 11.9 billion. And I could have used them for something else, I wasn't the Minister of Education. You're not telling the truth again, you're not telling the truth. And the mayor in Semily showed me the kindergarten, so I just got them a meeting. It's normal! The mayors always came to see me. And if he gets the grant, I don't know, I don't care. But I consider it an obligation when someone asks me, for example. magnetic resonance imaging in Kromeriz, so I'm asking. Because sometimes the officials don't work the way they're supposed to, and I just tell everyone that they have an open door and that I can help them. But I'm not making any promises, I'm not making any decisions about subsidies, so you guys are doing some stuff here, and school subsidies, including your village Chyne, were my work. The money I saved at the Treasury Department. And that's very easy to prove. But I understand you're campaigning, but I think numbers that anyone who wants to read it can read it on the website that I did as Treasury Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u72	Thank you. And before I invite another speaker, I have a note here. We are apologized to the Minister and Member Antonín Staněk from today's meeting from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr. Jiří Valenta will be speaking with further intervention in the case of war reparations of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, in recent days Poland has quantified the damage caused to Germany by World War II. This account takes account not only of the death of 5 163,000 Polák, of which 90 percent were Žid, but also of the damage caused by the German army in the cities. The conversion is a requirement of 312 billion. Crowns. The Polish Commission has already started preparing documents for its factual enforcement. Polish Foreign Minister Jacek Czaputowicz even identified such a replacement as his priority, regardless of the fact that Germany is now a key partner for his country, with which friendly, but also certainly historically correct relations must be made. I ask you: What does the Czech Republic say? In an expert report by Leopold Chmela from 1945, it is stated that the German occupation caused damage to Czechoslovakia of 430 billion. Crowns. Of which, for example. 135 billion in currency, 45 billion in agriculture, 30 billion in Jewish property. or 43 billion. as part of military damage. The number of human casualties was roughly 365 thousand. Anyone's claim that the Czech-German Declaration of 1997, where both the Czech Republic and Germany have undertaken not to bring property claims and claims against each other, thus requiring reparation, is irrelevant according to many important experts on the law. Our legal claims simply still apply, which was confirmed by the law in its time. also a constitutional lawyer Professor Václav Pavlíček, a well-known expert on so-called. Benešův's decrees. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u74	Thank you. And now Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u75	I understand that's an interesting subject. I just want to reiterate that, as far as Poland is concerned, in our opinion, Poland does not have a real chance of exonerating the reparations from Germany because it cannot exercise its claims before any international court. It's some kind of politics. According to Part III. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Potsdam Agreement with the Soviet Union undertakes to satisfy Poland's reparation demands from its own reparation share. The Potsdam Agreement therefore did not admit any separate reparation claims to Poland, respectively. By default, she ruled out. The Potsdam Agreement was followed by a bilateral agreement between the Soviet Union and Poland of 16. 8. 1945 on compensation for the damage caused by the German occupation, according to which the Soviet Union gave up its claims on all German property throughout Poland and further established for Poland a share of 15 percent of its reparations. Poland, unlike Czechoslovakia, is not a party to the Paris Reparation Agreement from Germany, signed on 14 January 1946. The Polish study does not provide convincing international arguments for annulment of the statement of the Polish Council of Ministers of the Government of 23. 8. 1953, by which Poland expressly renounced its reparation claims against the GDR or Germany. The Polish study was issued by the Sejm analytical office under the title Legal Opinion on the possibility of Poland to claim compensation from Germany in connection with international contracts for damages suffered during World War II. So it's the Sejma initiative. Of course, we can discuss this with them, but the study says that Poland is entitled to demand compensation for war damage, but of course we said in 1997, as you said about the declaration, that the injustices committed in the past on both sides belong to the past, 1997, so we need to ask those who signed it at the time, how they approached it, and that the injustices committed in the past will not burden their future-oriented relations with political or legal issues of the common past. In this spirit, the parties advance. Of course, the postwar arrangement of Europe is worthwhile, and I don't think you would want to question it. But if you feel that this is not the case, then, of course, as an MP, you can certainly propose such a measure. We're... the claims were of 306 billion expressed in period currency. By Germany, 230 billion or millions were paid, I don't know exactly. Millions. If you have an idea that can stand up internationally and legally, you can submit it. But at this point, our government is not dealing with this. And the attitude, virtually. I consider what Poland says to be a policy rather than a real opportunity to get money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u76	Thank you. And the Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u77	I hope that's enough in a minute. Prime Minister, you may well know that the long-term SRN effort is to prevent anyone from opening the reparation requirements. But after the conclusion of the 2+4 contract, which preceded the reunification of Germany, the Němec pretended that silence meant that the reparations were wiped out of the table for good. But the position of the United States was completely different. According to the US Department of Foreign Affairs' lawyers, silence simply meant that the reparations would still be discussed in the future. Reparation can be ruled out for good only by a peace treaty with Germany with the relevant provision, but it's just not here. You're right, it's quite limited time, limited space for an interpellation like this. I will try once more to open this subject with you at the point of rejection of the parliamentary question and then to propose some relevant resolution for this House, which we will then also discuss with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u78	Thank you. Is the Prime Minister interested in a follow-up answer? He mít. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u79	I think that every Member is free to propose anything, and I'm sure if you suggest it specifically, we'll certainly be subject to legal analysis. I don't have a problem debating this. This issue has certainly not been addressed under the current government, but if you are convinced that it has a solution, we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u80	Thank you and I will invite Mr Jakub Michálek to interpelise further on whether you are using an electronic signature to sign official documents. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the last speech by the Prime Minister, it turns out that he probably does not use an electronic signature because he has his paper laptop. I'm sure it will look very, very good when his friend the Estonian Prime Minister arrives and shows him how he has a paper laptop and how we're doing it, and I'm sure everyone will believe that we're going to introduce e-regulation here, an electronic way of preparing laws, so that the Prime Minister and the President of the Chamber of Deputies sign up electronically. I don't think we're ready for this at all, and there's nothing going on here. I wonder if this will continue, if you want to do paperwork with that amount of documents, or if you want to change it. Because what you've been describing here are some promises that are not related to the file service and do not lead to the digitization of documents, as I have said for example. about a building procedure in which you just entered some kind of study update, and you've been sitting there for five years. You've just been sitting there for five years at the ministry. You have your nominees there. You've had a few, Prime Minister, and nothing happened. And, of course, the Ministry has a building procedure in mind. He can change that. You have the mayor of the capital city of Prague, so even large authorities, well and five years nothing happens and the construction proceedings are slower and slower, and then those people wait for it for three quarters of a year, a year before the building office gives them a stamp on some crap with which they wait for the office. You're incredibly damaging these people. I wanted to hear specific results. After five years, you have no concrete results on MMR in the field of digitization of the construction process. And you're not doing anything about it. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Of course, the fact that you invited us to a meeting that takes place at a time when the Chamber of Deputies is sitting does not mean that we will go there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u82	Thank you. I ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for an answer and I shall warn you that we are pressed for time. At 4:00 p.m., the Prime Minister's interpelations should be over. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u83	What can I say about the demagogy? Five years, colleague, so do the math. I was the finance minister who had the best results, reducing our country's debt by 73 billion. He had a surplus. You can laugh all you want. Try telling the citizens what you've been through in your life when you're so cool and you're always criticizing something. Well, we'd be happy to give you the deadline for the IT. Public too, to show you how cool you are. You're full of shit, and when you come in, you put an ad in order to get an IT guy. So what five years? I haven't been there in five years. But in that time, I was fired, in case you forgot, in May 2017. And I did something there at the Treasury Department. It's essential. That is why we have some of the best public finances in Europe. [[16.00 hours]] And the fact that you're mocking me, that I don't have an electronic signature-- well, I don't have one. I sign myself. This is a scandal. You think that you're doing everything here electronically, that it actually has some sort of major effect on what? For what? The point is, if you have any visions in your life, you turn them into deeds. And that's what I did. All you have here is suggestions. Too bad you guys didn't go out to try it on. Maybe you could've done your normal job before you went into politics. [[Laughter.]] To try out what real life is. Not to make a living as a politician, you're young enough to do that. [[Let's hear it.]] If you'd done something first in your life...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u84	I would like to ask that we proceed to the point...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u85	And then criticize someone here. [[Response to Mr Michálek's screams:]] I'm acting normal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u86	I'd like to ask both sides to remain calm in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u87	So much. When the Estonian Prime Minister comes, we can go together - I'll be happy to introduce him to you, I don't have a problem with that. We're really doing something. Whether I sign electronically or not, I don't think it's relevant at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u88	Thank you. I will ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. It does, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u89	It won't be an additional question. I was working as a paralegal, dealing with people's problems, so I didn't go straight to politics from school. And unlike you, I was in communal politics before I joined the top policy. So I gained some political experience, I didn't go into national politics right away, and I didn't join the government right away, so it would end in such a problematic state. So I would ask you not to lie here, Prime Minister. That's point number one. And point number two. I've been talking all along about the Ministry of Regional Development, which you've had for five years, where there's a construction process. The Ministry of Finance doesn't deal with the construction process. This is handled by the Ministry of Regional Development. You've had your nominees there for five years. You've been sitting there for five years. And there's the construction process. Why did it stop there? Why isn't it digitizing? There's nothing going on, and the construction proceedings are getting longer, the apartments are getting more expensive. Well, explain this to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u90	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u91	Of course, we were not alone in the government. We have solved the problem of building apartments in a very short time. Mrs. Dostálová has construction. And now we're dealing with the construction law in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce. Together. And it takes ten years to build apartments in Prague, that's true, but the vision is, if there's an approved zoning plan, it might be reduced - I don't know - to a fifth. So we've been in that government, yes, four years. And we've got what we've done written down. I personally have it written down. And I was the Minister of Finance, yes. And we passed the laws in the coalition, so we didn't have a majority. So I don't know what you're blaming me for. You were supposed to go to the government and basically show us. All you do is criticize everywhere, but you don't want to take any responsibility. Come sit there and show us! You're still talking - IT, IT, that you didn't have an appointment. We'll give you a deadline. So give us a deadline and we'll come. It's okay. I don't have a problem with that. Because you're just talking. And if you're gonna do something, you're not gonna be able to do it. That's what you showed on the IT. You guys woke up saying you weren't there, and then you put in ads. Well, that's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u92	Thank you. By doing so, we have exhausted the time reserved for the Prime Minister's interpellation, so now we will get to the government's interpellings, and I will hand over the chair at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u93	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. We will continue to interpel on the members of the government. I call on Mr Martin Kupka to give an interview to the Minister for Regional Development, Mrs Klára Dostálová, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Madam Secretary isn't here, so I'm gonna ask you if you want to load your interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u94	I'll keep it for the next show. However, I would like to respond to what was said here a moment ago. I don't think this rhetorical counter has ever witnessed a self-righteous human training that he has just shown -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u95	Ambassador, if you don't have an interview, I'd like you to comment on the interventions. We're in the interpellation block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u96	It stopped me. I wanted to ask the secretary about the NEN system. The Prime Minister said how the government is finally handling everything electronically. This is how the NEN system has been dealt with for five years by the Minister - various ministers for the ANO movement. It's a remarkable example of the IT system. We will now, in this meeting, deal with the Internet Access Act, so the NEN system, which should be an example of accessibility, is the opposite. It's inaccessible if you want to do something about it, so you can wait up to five minutes to respond to the load. I would like to hear from the Minister, then, how he is prepared for the very sharp operation, which should occur during this year, whether we are expecting a collapse of public procurement due to a dysfunctional IT system that has been in charge of the ANO movement for five years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u97	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. I assume that this interpellation has been loaded and the Minister will reply in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to speak to Mr Marek Výborný, who was drawn in the second place, to present an oral interview with the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Since the Minister is not here, I will wait for another opportunity at one of the other meetings, although perhaps the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs might also respond to the question. But that's not even how it's mentioned, so I'll leave it until next time. I'd just like to stand up for my colleague Michálek for a very short time. I can disagree with him in a hundred and one things, but the paternalistic, arrogant attitude of the Prime Minister when he treats him like a father... [[Madam, I'd like to ask you...]] ... to a naughty child, I find it really inappropriate and not belonging to the land of the democratic House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u99	I would like to ask all Members in the Chamber to comply with the Rules of Procedure, and if they are invited to interpel, to comment directly on the Minister or the Minister. Thank you very much. Next in line is Mrs. Golasowská - for Mrs. Minister Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, the Committee on Social Policy adopted a resolution in which he asked the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová to withdraw the methodology manual for curators from the MPSV pages, which did not happen. I also found no answers to my questions in her 17-page response to my intervention, including, for example, a specific answer to who was the author of the methodological manual. That means the names of specific persons. The Minister also stated, among other things, that curators must follow the laws, not the methodological guidelines of the MPSV. I ask you to ensure that the Department of Family Protection and Children's Rights issues methodological guidelines in accordance with applicable legislation and only distributes them to lower bodies of social-law protection of children through regional authorities and only such on the MPSV website. The MPSV long-term calls for unification of care for endangered children under one resort. At the same time, the practice in its own resort is being smashed by questionable methodological guidelines. Madam Secretary, I ask you to withdraw manuals from the MPSV pages and from practice and I have a question as to whether and at what date you will do this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u101	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs issued a methodological guide for children and youth in November 2016. Its starting points were presented after the methodological line of performance of social law protection for children before the release in May 2016, following the publication of the methodological manual, a meeting was organised in March 2017 with representatives of the regional authorities, which focused on explaining those parts that OSPOD representatives perceived controversially. [[16.10 hours]] This spring an MPSV meeting was organized directly with representatives of curators for children and youth, one in Prague, the other in Olomouc. The meeting was attended by more than 350 workers from the institutions of social law protection for children, most of whom were curators for children and youth. The methodological manuals and its conclusions and principles on which it is based have been questioned both by the media and by the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. In May of this year, a meeting took place with representatives of regional authorities, on the basis of which it was agreed that this methodology manual would be revised by the MPSV, in cooperation with regional authorities, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Office of the Public Protector of Rights. At the same time, it was decided that the methodological guide would not be withdrawn until its revised version was issued. It is true that the original deadline for completing the revision of the methodological manual was set at the end of June 2018. This term has been moved, for my predecessor, to the month of October of this year, because it has been shown that this term is unrealistic, including with regard to the dates in which the MPSV was sent individual statements of all stakeholders. As regards the interpelation of Mrs Golasowská on the April 2018 Methodological Manual, the MPSV was answered by a letter from my predecessor, Mrs . Jaroslava Němcová, who also sent a reply to the Committee on Social Policy following his resolution, where he informed him of the follow-up to the MPSV on the matter, including the reasons why not only the methodological manual was not downloaded, but also the methodological information on facilities for children requiring immediate assistance. As has already been mentioned here, this was a very comprehensive position. As I mentioned earlier, the deadline was postponed to October by the MPSV management meeting. At this point, we are discussing both the changes made and the revised version of the methodological manual. Let me assure you that the MPSV devotes all its strength to completing the revision of both methodological materials and that this is a priority for us, and I firmly hope that in October we will present and discuss the revised version of the manual with all stakeholders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u103	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask if there's any interest in an additional question. It's not, so we'll proceed to another interpellation. Mrs Kovářová Věra for Minister Schillerová, Mr Bartoň Lukáš will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u104	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I wanted to have a bit of an unconventional question about the very video of Mr. Prime Minister in the election campaign where he claims to influence decisions on subsidies for municipalities and cities based on the initiative of local politicians who have his telephone number. I also wanted to ask you if this would be relevant to the Ministry of Finance. I also wanted to ask you, as experienced lawyers, whether influencing the decision-making of subsidies in ministries and regions by the Prime Minister is legal, how the Czech and European regulations are looking at this and whether the government is going to change these regulations, if necessary, in order to move the decision-making of subsidies to the Prime Minister's office. Given that the Prime Minister has answered me that he fundamentally rejects the claim that he would influence the subsidy procedure, I do not expect that it will be necessary to answer these questions, however, I will ask a new question: In that video it is said that there are regions and ministries in the way of good ideas that mayor and mayor. So I want to ask you whether you also feel and whether you identify with this statement in that video, whether your ministry would throw sticks under the feet of mayors, mayors, municipalities and cities. That's a question I'd like to hear the answer to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u105	Thank you, ma'am. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to reply briefly. The answer is basically clear. The procedure for the allocation of subsidies is governed by the Budgetary Rules Act, which the providers are obliged to follow. The grant is always preceded by a call from the provider, which includes common conditions for applicants, and a range of applicants for which the call is intended is defined. The subsidy shall then be granted on the basis of the applications submitted in accordance with the established transparent evaluation criteria. The budgetary rules do not allow individual subsidies to be granted, the application for a grant and its allocation in any other way is simply not possible, i.e. I don't have any other answer either as Secretary of Finance or as a lawyer. So this is it. I think I answered another part of the question. I don't know the quoted video, I don't really know it, and I'd just like to say that if you're interested in it, I have some interesting material that I've had to process on the exit, and I'm working with it, of course, using various meetings with the Union of Towns and Communities, etc., the Association of Regions. It is called Economics of municipalities and regions and there are such interesting graphs - the development of the balance of management of municipalities and regions, I have an increase in tax revenues, shares of RUD etc. It is very interesting and it means that municipalities and regions are getting more and more money thanks to the RUD and because we have a strong economy and, on the one hand, we are doing well in tax collection in an unprecedented way thanks to the measures that the Ministry of Finance has introduced, and I am glad for that, I believe that they will simply use it meaningfully. And I certainly don't imagine throwing sticks under anyone's feet like that. That means, I think we're doing the best we can, and so in that house together, that's what I'm always saying, we're doing great in that joint public finances house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u107	I thank the Minister and I assume that the Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u108	Thank you so much for reminding me of those transparent criteria, and I will hope firmly that they will follow their lead. As for throwing sticks under my feet, perhaps I would ask about the state budget and the registers, and that the government intends to deprive the communities with the registers of CZK 150 million. So I wanted to ask if it would really hurt the state budget, whether it would be missing then, the 150 million, if it were the price of starving rural matrices, and whether the state budget would be able to sustain the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u109	Thank you. Madam Secretary is interested in answering. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u110	Thank you. I just know that this fits into the concept of the Ministry of the Interior, which the Prime Minister has also been actively involved in, because we have taken this issue into account within the various government exits of the previous minority government, and I know that the problem has been dealt with actively, that it has been promised to be dealt with individually, taking into account certain local conditions. I believe that's how it works. Of course, this would be more of a question for the Minister of the Interior, but at least what I see as the Minister of Finance, and for the Ministry of Finance, I will say that we are again valorizing the contribution to the so-called. State administration, because that's where I think you're targeting. In the next year it will be, I guess, 10 percent again and in the next year it should be up to 20 percent overall, and we valorize it regularly. I don't know the nominal amount right now, I know exactly where the file is at work, but I don't have it here with me, but of course I'm able to deliver anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u111	Thank you, Minister. I have an apology here before I pass the next word on to the next interviewer. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes for the negotiations today until the end of the day for reasons of work. And now I will give the floor to Mr Bartoň Lukáš for an interview with Minister Vojtěch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u112	Thank you. I'm lucky to have one of the three ministers present. Dear Minister, I would like to ask what the Ministry of Health intends to do and in what timeframe to support and preserve small hospitals in smaller cities. I am from the Pilsen Region and, for example, the hospital in Sušice is fighting for survival, the department is shutting down, and the ministry is taking this into account as health care is reduced for citizens in the region. What is your plan, Minister for Hospitals of size, e.g. The dry one?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u113	Thank you. And the words will be taken by Minister Adam Vojtěch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, when it comes to the smaller hospitals, and here we need not only talk about Sušice, so it must be said that, especially in the last two years, before I arrived, there has been a convergence of the so-called 'payments', as is actually taking place and set up by the payment decree. basic rates within the DRG system across actually providers of acute bed care, i.e. health services. That means, there was really going to be a so-called. the functions of arcus tangents - here I do not want to fully explain - brought the basic rates of those especially smaller hospitals that are underfunded compared to the larger ones. That's the first thing. That was objectively the case. The second thing is that next year, and perhaps this has been recorded in the media, payments will be made on the basis of agreements between all hospitals and health insurance companies. There is conciliation procedure, all hospitals where even small hospitals are large, have signed a payment agreement for next year's health care, where the system is set up equally. This means that the basic rates of those hospitals, which have a lower basic rate, with the higher ones, will be aligned again next year. So it's just a general framework as it's set up. It should be recalled that the Ministry of Health, but health insurance, is responsible for the availability of care - you said here that we are taking this into account. Health insurance companies are legally responsible for providing networks, let them be hospitals, let them be practical doctors, outpatient specialists. In short, overall health care is provided within the Czech health system by the health insurance company responsible for time and local availability. If, of course, we, as the Ministry, see that the insurance company is not able to ensure time and local availability, which is determined by law, virtually. Government regulations, so we can act, we can carry out a check. But it's not that the Department of Health is responsible for the hospital somewhere. That's not how the law is set. They are health insurance companies in our system of Czech health care. So that's the first one. And more systemic -- because all this stuff that I was talking about, of course, and you're going to argue that maybe it's some things that, let's say, are cosmetic, even if I don't think so. But as far as the more systematic, robust solution is concerned, we are preparing the DRG Restart project at the Ministry of Health, which is a project that aims - I would say that this is a relatively revolutionary change - to change the payments of acute bed care, i.e. in hospitals. The point is that we are really going to aim at uniting basic rates across acute bed care providers across all hospitals and paying for genuine care. It's not like that today. Hospitals are being paid for today. On a flat-rate basis. And the flats, of course, are different. Unfortunately, it's some historical reminiscence from the past. It's been going on in the health department for about 20 years. And that's the DRG Restart project that we should hack into, unite the payments across those acute bed care providers. From our point of view, we think that this should really lead to a systemic solution. We've been working on this project objectively for some time now. I've accelerated the preparations. The plan is that according to this new system of reporting care will be, respectively. it will be reported in shadow next year and should be paid in accordance with it, but it will be some sort of run-up, of course, from 2020. It's a rather robust change. There's got to be some kind of run, a couple of years old. But that's the basic, I'd say, postulate, that will actually change the system of payments for acute bed care, so that hospitals across are paid more or less the same. It won't always be the same, because if you need a hospital, it's not just Sušice, it's Jeseník etc., which is worse available, so of course the insurance company has to bonify the hospital in a certain way to ensure care there. So there may be some differences, but the basic rates should simply be the same for hospitals. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u115	Thank you. I'll ask if there's any interest in an additional question. Yes, he's interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u116	Thank you for the system solution. This really requires that even small hospitals receive the same money as the big ones for the same operation. Thank you so much for that. However, I would still... It's a problem for small hospitals, you said it right. And I would go back to the dry one, which unfortunately some departments won't last until 2020. Do you have any instructions, any solutions? Because it's months since the department's been shutting down because of the money now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u117	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u118	Thank you for the floor. Well, let's just say the hospital is private. It's owned, as far as I know, by Penta. That means we, as the ministry, have no direct tools to run the hospital, deal with it. That's how it's set. That hospital isn't under the Ministry of Health. It's not a direct organization. This means, unfortunately, I do not have a specific instrument because in the system, as it is set, the Ministry of Health does not have that power. Again, it is up to health insurance companies to ensure the availability of care. Of course, I do not know exactly what the structure of care in hospitals is, what departments are needed there today and are threatened with extinction. But, in general, the care needs to be taken care of. If it doesn't, we can, of course, deal with health insurance companies. But we don't have a direct instrument to support any particular hospital. I don't think that would be right, either, because we have to treat all hospitals the same way. And while I know that you're saying that this is something that needs to be done in a while, I think that's the only way we can deal with this thing, really systemically. We can't say there's a hospital here, and now maybe we'll send a grant because another hospital would come, she'd want a grant too. I don't think that's possible, and the law doesn't even allow it. This means if there is a threat that any care will not be available and that the time and local availability will not be met, as set out in the law, virtually. In the government's order, we'll deal with this in cooperation with health insurance companies. I can declare it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u119	Thank you for keeping time. Before I pass on the next word, I'll read another apology. Member Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes for working reasons today from 17 a.m. to the end of the day. I give the floor to Mr Vít Kaňkovský for Minister Richard Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u120	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, colleagues. The inhabitants of the southwestern part of the Vysočina Region for several months have been concerned about the project of repairing the Great Přezitý Pond, which is a relatively large water area in the same name's nature reserve, which includes rare bogs, among other things is the deepest in the Highlands. The Agency for Nature and Landscape Protection has developed an extensive project to repair and modify the dam on the basis of the allegedly significant leak of the dam and the threat of its rupture in the total value of the contract of more than CZK 48 million. The public, who learned about this event quite late, became very concerned about this project and I would like to present here the biggest reservations that citizens have about this project. First, after having had the opportunity to get to know the public about the evidence that led to the launch of this project at all, it turned out that the very reason why this project is starting is very vague, and many experts are questioning the reasons. Then it's the scope and length of the planned work. It means that the pond will be launched for at least two to three years, which, in a situation where we are fighting extreme drought, is a significant intervention. [[16.30 hours]] What citizens are most afraid of is the impact on the spring grounds in the area. And here are the historical experiences - when this pond was released in the past, there was a significant reduction in the drinking water springs in the surrounding area, which is certainly a great risk at a time of extreme drought. Quite logically, citizens are criticizing the timing of this event, because if at the moment we are fighting extreme drought and this pond is historically a backup source of drinking water, it is clear that the timing is wrong. [[Time warning]] So, a question for the Minister. Minister, you were aware of this problem. I want to ask you whether you intend to verify this action and, if necessary, suspend it until some ambiguities have been clarified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u121	I'm very tolerant, but I'd really like to keep the time to interpel. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u122	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Member, fellow Members, we are facing quite an interesting situation here, where the so-called public, which must be a few dozen petents - and of course I do not want to evaluate their ambitions, virtually. their motivation to do so. I know that pond is a favorite bathing place. In principle, they assess whether a correction is to be carried out. This is quite specific, because when you take it and you take it, my colleague, even to yourself, that you should have the responsibility as the owner of the relatively large pond from the 16th century, just reminding me where it has been repeatedly since 2011 in every report, which is done regularly in terms of status assessment, so since 2011 - just before that the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency has been the owner of the pond since 1996, when it was taken over - it has been renowned companies, in this case, for example TBD - Waterworks, continuously pointing out the risks associated with the leaks of the dams. A geophysical survey was carried out in 2011, which confirmed this problem. Other problems arose, even greater, in 2013, when it was even decided to reduce the level again. Then again and basically from then on every year in the reports for 2015, 2016, 2017, a professional organisation whose competence, I think, has not been questioned calls for corrective measures to be taken every year in the overall correction of the dam. That's why the project was commissioned. The contractor was selected on the basis of the project. There's been a tender. I think I heard about it sometime in August. Of course, I asked the director, but the information simply showed that there is a reason, after all, supported by expert reports, and I can hardly really force the director of the Nature and Landscape Agency, who is responsible. The moment that there's really a rift of the dam and then there's some kind of disaster, I probably wouldn't be the one - virtually. I couldn't take the blame for saying, "I told the director he shouldn't do it." That's just his responsibility, and the Agency has made that decision. I was more surprised at how the discussion took place recently, because it was about a month ago when we started talking about it, but the building permit was issued 22. 5. 2017 Municipal Authority in Telč. All participants, where not only the Municipal Authority Telč was, but the municipalities Vanov, Řásná, Rybářství Nechvál, Rybářství Lipnice, everyone knew about this in the long term, it was discussed, it was discussed on the edge, and suddenly at the last minute this debate began. I have stepped in and we have actually discussed with the director and there has been a shift from August to September of the gradual discharge of the pond, which, according to my information, has actually occurred in the past days. The nature and landscape conservation agency, by definition, is the one who shares the concern that there will be no environmental damage, damage to nature, peatlands. All I can say about your particular initiative, which you spoke of, is that the springs, the flood of groundwater, are located in the flood of the pond and its surroundings, and in accordance with the requirements of the regional authority, I would say above standard, will be the spring in the flood and the entire bay area will be equipped with holding dams, which will ensure the flooding of these places even during the repair. I'm just reminding you that the pond was very much used for fishing until 2001, and it was released every year until spring in the fall. Now, I dare say, it has much better water quality under the guidance of the Nature and Landscape Agency. And I can really assure you that it's not going to be repaired by the fact that the water doesn't escape into the watercourse, but it actually stays in the pond system under the dam and stays in the entire area. So I really want to assure you that we have considered all the risks, but on your clear question, yes, the last sentence. [[Prime Minister...]] I don't suppose and I won't be, as if I can't even order the director of the organization to do something he has professional... virtually. to oppose what he has an expert opinion on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u123	I understand that this is a very difficult and interesting subject, but let's keep time. The Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u124	I thank the Minister for his reply. Just a few notes. There aren't dozens of petents, I think there are 1,200 of them at this point, so I don't think they're a small group of people anymore, and they're definitely not just the bathers. But no hard feelings. The point is that the public has actually learned about this quite lately. It's a question of whether or not it's the authorities' fault, but the reviews you mention have their opponents. They claim that these assessments are overvalued in terms of the risk of a dam leak. That's a lot of professional discussion. Then it's the range. The scale of these repairs is really enormous, and the impact on the ecosystem is also enormous. That's what the petents wanted to talk to the agency about before they started working. And then, of course, the timing. Extreme drought. Even the clues don't have to contain all the risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u125	Thank you for keeping time. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u126	Thank you. I would once again like to assure you, Mr. Ambassador, that we are not indifferent to those voices. Even the debates with these petents have been organised repeatedly. The meeting took place in August and again in September, I think once in Telč and the second time at the Agency's headquarters, where there were representatives of petents. According to my information, the negotiations were very constructive. Important matters have been explained. And I'm sure we're ready to discuss the matter, but not in the sense - and I guess I have to let the petents who hoped for it disappoint - that we're going to stop the action, but we're going to do everything for it, and as I know Director Pelc and the Agency, she really cares very much about the conservation of nature and landscape, and it would be paradoxical or absurd that she's being attacked today for not taking these things into consideration. I really want to assure you, and we have a whole range of evidence that all the risks you have mentioned have been taken into account, evaluated and done everything to minimise the risk that there will be a more fundamental impact on the ecosystem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u127	I thank the Minister for his time. Mr. Jiří Ventruba is next in line for Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u128	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am asking you a question about the sister education system. You know well that the biggest problem of endangering the normal functioning of hospitals is the alarming lack of nurses. Its cause is the current, after last April's meeting of the House of Commons already improved education system, when it is no longer necessary for nurses to undertake a nonsense Bachelor's study. But even this solution is not optimal. [[16.40 hours]] The initial and one of the main triggers of this unfortunate state was, in my opinion, the introduction of Act No. 272/1996 Coll., when secondary health schools were transferred from the gesture of the Ministry of Health under the Ministry of Education. Since this change, sisters have to prepare for general graduations with a fundamental change in the number of professional hours. By transferring to the Ministry of Education, there was a significant reduction in the number of professional hours of theoretical and practical teaching, which made it impossible for nurses after graduation to enter hospitals fully educated and qualified immediately. Therefore, their obligation to continue their studies has been unnecessarily extended by the necessity of a one- or a multi-annual study superstructure. So I ask you, Minister, if you are in favour of high schools going back to the Ministry of Health and again producing fully educated and professionally qualified nurses for our hospitals and our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u129	Thank you for keeping time, and the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, thank you for the interpellation, which is undoubtedly very factual and appropriate. At first, I must agree that, indeed, the biggest problem today is the lack of nurses, general nurses and practical medical staff. I don't want to be completely specific to nurses, because he's the problem with lower medical personnel, etc., but we can actually see it on our data that the problem is the biggest problem in this area. So I have to agree with that, although I always like to say, it is not an entirely fundamental argument, but that the problem is basically today in all states west of us. When we look in Germany, there are 50,000 sisters missing, both in Austria and in the United States, in Canada, if I have the opportunity to read. So unfortunately, the lack of nursing staff seems to be a relatively global phenomenon, especially in the Western world. But I'm sure that's not the kind of thing we want to hide behind. We're trying to solve the personnel situation. And it's not just about the money. Certainly not, although the money will go significantly for non-medical medical personnel just next year, it is certainly not a matter that can only be resolved by this measure. We also created a working group for staff stabilization in health care, where we talk about other motivations, other benefits, is also a question of early retirement etc., some contributions to spa and rehabilitation care, because the work is very demanding. I think there are a number of measures that we need to take to make sure that there are hospital staff. On the issue of education, it is true that today, and this still needs to be mentioned, the capacity of the education system in secondary schools and higher vocational schools for non-medical disciplines is sufficient. If we're really talking about capacity, we know that the filling is about a third or so. the spare capacity is about one third higher than the filling, so we have roughly one third of the unfulfilled places in these fields by pupils and students, but what is positive in the last data available to us, and according to the information we have that the number of students in secondary health schools has increased. One of the reasons for this will certainly be that the MŠMT implemented a measure that will not make a compulsory examination of mathematics in the common part of the graduation exam, which I consider to be a positive step, and that is why we see some higher motivation for applying to high schools. We are the framework education programme for a practical sister, as is in secondary schools, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and is focused objectively more on teaching in clinical fields, so that graduates are better prepared for practice. As far as your question of transfer to the Ministry of Health is concerned, I and priori do not fight it, although I would not like to say a fundamental position here right now, because this must certainly be discussed very well with the Ministry of Education or with the regions under which the secondary schools are. So I wouldn't want to say here that we're going to transfer high schools to the Ministry of Health because it wouldn't be entirely correct with the other institutions involved, but I'm not defending the debate. You're right that it's that the schools really are specialized, they're focused on training, even if the question is, doesn't there have to be any general educational basis at all? I'm not quite sure. What has succeeded, that is, that there is no mathematics, which I consider beneficial, and the question is whether there may be any other standard subjects, in which I am not an expert, and that is precisely at the meeting with the Ministry of Education. So in conclusion, I would say yes, I'm ready to discuss it, I'm not resisting it, it would give me logic, yes, but I'm not sure if it's possible to do it so that there's just not really a general educational basis. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u131	Thank you. Are you interested in an additional question? Yes. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u132	Minister, thank you for your words. I just want to say that the Prime Minister mentioned in his interview today that 80 percent of the college students in our company are nonsense. I think the same thing. And that includes the nonsense of the nurses' higher education, which has been removed. So, like the old classics said, house spiro sperm - while I'm breathing, I hope. So I hope that together we can find such an educational system so that once again there will be enough professionally high-quality and qualified nurses in hospitals as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u133	Is the Minister interested in an answer? Yes. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u134	Thank you for the floor. My interest is exactly the same, without a doubt, and I am also prepared to discuss this within the Committee on Health and the subcommittee that you are in charge of, honourable Member, so it is certainly clear. It is true that we must also look at some European regulation. It is set so that a full-fledged nurse has to undergo 2,300 hours of theory and hours of practice. The way it is set today is true that the system is 4+1, so actually - according to the information I have, it seems that it is not even possible to do it within the time frame, so I guess we also have to talk about it. But opinions on whether or not a sister should have a college or only a high school have always been here since the compulsory university education was introduced, and they will still be here, and I think that even among fellow Members that opinion will not be completely uniform. So let's discuss this within the platforms I was talking about. In the Committee and in the Ministry, we try to map these things, because we know that the system has changed, as you say, since, in fact, last year, only since September. It's very difficult to analyze the real impact, the effect, actually. I guess that takes a little more time, some distance. But I certainly do not resist any changes that will simply lead to more sisters being in practice. That's what I think is our common interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u135	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar is next in line for Minister Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I have a question about the Ministry of Finance's monetary operations. According to the State Debt Management Report, the Ministry of Finance purchased euro for CZK 9.3 billion in the first half of the year. That's not a small amount. And according to the information I have and which took place in the media, the Ministry bought CZK 25.61 for the euro, while the average exchange rate for the first half was 25.50. According to the media statement of representatives of the Ministry of Finance it was that the Ministry and the State therefore and the taxpayer spared on this transaction. I don't want to question it. I just want to ask how it really was, whether this operation really was loss-making or profit-making. Some justification for what the funds were specifically used for. And the last, follow-up question. The purchase was facilitated by seven financial institutions. So what's the total cost of these transactions, the $9 billion, if you have the information now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u137	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u138	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for the interview, Mr. Ambassador. I'll give you all the information I have at my disposal right now. Of course, if you're not satisfied, I'll fill it in. The transaction you are asking for concerned the purchase of euro funds on the foreign exchange spot market, which is facilitated by the Ministry of Finance, and was intended for the payment of expenditure of the chapters of the state budget in this currency, generally purchases of euro funds, i.e. reimbursement of the member contributions of the Czech Republic to international institutions, chapters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or general treasury administration. That was in general. Since the revenue and expenditure accounts of the state budget are kept in crowns and foreign beneficiaries must be paid in euro, it is necessary to obtain foreign currency either directly on the foreign exchange market by the Ministry of Finance or through the award of a payment order to the amount in euro from the koruna account, which effectively means the purchase of the necessary euro from the Czech National Bank according to the valid exchange rate. In the case of expenditure in the euro, this is the foreign exchange-sale rate. The exchange rate reached on the foreign exchange market was always more favourable than the exchange rate at which the Czech National Bank would arrange this operation according to its current exchange rate. In this way, the immediate cash savings of the state budget in the relevant chapters of the state budget have been achieved. Since 2016, since the Ministry of Finance has been actively operating on the spot market for this purpose, savings have been made on state budget expenditure of nearly CZK 100 million. The Ministry of Finance carries out these operations in accordance with § 34 para. 8 The Budgetary Rules Act, which provides in the last sentence that the Treasury's liquidity management accounts and sovereign debt management, including bank accounts, or banks abroad held in a single European currency, or in other currencies, may continue to provide foreign-exchange payments from and to the State budget. This type of operation was also examined by the Supreme Audit Office in the context of the checks carried out and no deficiencies were found and the savings achieved were noted. It should be noted that The Ministry of Finance does not decide on the timing of operations on the spot foreign exchange market because they are based on clearly given maturity of foreign exchange liabilities of individual chapters of the state budget, which would in other circumstances be realised at the Czech National Bank's exchange rate, as the current announced exchange rate. For this reason, speculation in newspapers on the timing of foreign exchange operations and the resulting speculation on the advantage or disadvantage of the implementation of foreign exchange rates are completely unfounded, because the need for foreign currency is given by foreign obligations of the Czech Republic and this need is ensured by the provision of this currency immediately before the date of the required remuneration according to current conditions on the foreign exchange market, not speculatively in other terms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u139	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u140	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Some of the numbers I asked you about, I assume you don't have them on you. I will then ask about them after the interview during the e-mail. However, what interests me is what you said is that it is always waiting for the maturity and is currently being purchased according to the maturity of the currency. I think if it wouldn't be more efficient to manage these purchases according to some prediction of course development and not always wait for maturity and only manage it according to current maturity, if it wouldn't be more effective for taxpayers, the state budget would manage it with some future exchange rate prediction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u141	Thank you. Madam Secretary is interested in an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u142	Yes, thank you. Mr. Ambassador, given what I said, it's not possible. But I'm offering you - because it's already a very technical debate. For me, it's important that there's savings in the long run. For me, it is important that the Supreme Audit Office, which controlled it, did not dispute that. These are terrible, very important factors for me to say. And I'm offering you a meeting with our specialists at the Ministry of Finance who do this, they're really experts who will show you how the principle works, how it's done, why it doesn't work either way. So you're welcome to the Treasury at any time for a closer consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u143	Thank you. Now, here's a series of interviews for absent ministers. Next in line is Mrs Vrecionová for Minister Miroslav Toman. I don't see the Minister or the Member here. This means that we will move on to Mr Jakuba Michálek as Minister Klára Dostálová. I'll ask him if he's interested in loading the interpellation. He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u144	Thanks for the word. I will follow up on my previous interview with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for the construction process. I asked the Minister to come to the meeting of the Housing Sub-Committee that took place and to hear information about what happened at the Ministry of Regional Development in the field of construction proceedings, because I think that the building process is prepared for digitalisation in a number of cases. Even the software they have in there would allow it. And only the Ministry, as a construction law gesturer, can allow it to finally be fully electronic. Unfortunately, I only met with the fact that the study was five years old, and it was given to some company to update it. And that, in my opinion, is evidence of an entirely unprecedented approach by the Ministry of Regional Development. The YES movement has been at the Ministry of Regional Development for five years. Five years. It's been almost five years since he's been sitting there, he's got his minister, or virtually. Minister. And the results are just totally pathetic. The whole housing sector pays for this because housing prices are rising, the construction process is incredibly complicated. We may have some concept here of a completely fundamental overmining of the building process, but it's the kind of official megalomania that never leads to a real change. So I think we should take some small steps, adjust it so that... Okay, we're looking forward to doing... I totally agree with that. One stop shop. One place with one stamp. That's quite right. And so let's at least go before it's implemented, which will take a few years to prepare it at all, so we can digitize the building procedure so that the file doesn't have to go around the way that it just prints out and it's just 30 days in one office, 30 days in another office. [[Attention on time.]] And there are dozens of these offices and places. So let's make this quicker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u145	Thank you. As the Minister is not present at today's meeting, the reply will be sent in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Dominik Feri is also an interviewer for Minister Jan Hamáček and is interested in recording the interview. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It may not even be up to date in 30 days. However, a few brief questions. I am interested in what Mr Hamáček has done to ensure that municipal elections go smoothly, and I do not mean by the precinct electoral committees, but rather by the voters, so that they know how to vote properly. Community elections are specific. It is a system that is extremely complex just for panashing, which is based on the fact that municipal elections are more about personalities than about political parties. This means whether the Ministry has prepared some briefing material that has spread among voters, especially among young voters. I would also like to know what further steps he intends to take on the remuneration of the members of the precinct electoral committees. The previous minister made some progress. At least managed to demolish the injustice in the form of two-way elections and the reward for the second round. And the last thing is a matter of a purely political nature, namely whether it intends to ensure, at least in the case of ministers, that they will participate in the Chamber of Deputies negotiations in the period before the elections and not participate in various electoral events. That would be very unpleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u147	Thank you for the interview. As the Minister is not present, the reply will be sent in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Another enrollment is Mrs Dana Balcarová to Minister Richard Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you a question which, at the moment, is relatively resonating in the field of environment among experts, and this is speculation that you are going to appeal the director of the Czech Switzerland National Park, Mr Pavel Benda. I wonder if that's true, if you're really thinking about it and what the reasons for that are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u149	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your question, Madam Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. First of all, it's something like asking Prime Minister Babiš if he's considering calling me off. He probably wouldn't tell you he never thought about it. It'll depend on how I work. It's exactly the same as here. I came into politics from a normal world. And there, when you have some subordinates and you are responsible for them, you also have the competence to make some personnel change. So far, I've made one personnel change at the level of national park directors shortly after I joined. I don't rule out making any more. It's my managerial competence. Of course, then you can ask why I did it. I don't have it ready today, but I don't rule it out. But that could happen to any national park director or any other credit agency director. I want to assure you that there would be a clear specific reason - first of all. Secondly, even if I didn't have to do this, I clearly pointed out to previous cases that if I'm making some kind of personnel change, I always do, even if it's not under the service law, a selection procedure where everyone has the opportunity to apply. I, of course, noted in the journal Referendum, will not name the author of the state, which, of course, is a bunch of senseless speculation, an indication that something is supposed to be upset in the north of Bohemia, or what it sounded like. Look, it's really something today that I'm not gonna say won't happen, but I'm saying again, it applies to everyone. And I guarantee you that if this happens, it will certainly not be for reasons that are being speculated on and which are completely pointless that Mr Benda is not a loyal official or an obedient official, it is supposed to concern even his decision or non-decision regarding the compensation measures of the Elbe Jeze. That is absolutely ridiculous speculation for one perfectly logical reason. And I think you're gonna give me the truth that she's really ridiculous. If, beautifully, as if it really isn't on the table, I would decide, or anyone else, to pressure the director to decide against his feelings, but also against his expertise, that decision is easy to judge. Such a crazy minister who would force someone to do something like this would have to be a real lunatic, because first of all he wouldn't have done anything about it, only of course he would have sent out a clear signal, and even if he had been pushed through, it would have been a judgmental challenge, because of course it is an administrative decision that has some clear correction mechanisms and could end up in the Czech courts and, calmly, in the European Court, or the European Commission. That's it, there's nothing behind it. On the other hand, I am not hiding that I have a certain internal benchmark in the assessment of the draw on the goal of individual directors of national parks. And there I have to say that I have some reservations about how investments are made in the Czech Switzerland National Park, or investments are prepared for example tourist infrastructure, such as communication with the surrounding area or with a part of the mayor's surroundings. And these are things that, of course, we discussed with the director. So that's it. I really know what management responsibility and competence is, and I can use it when it comes to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u151	I thank the Minister for his time. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u152	Thank you for your answer. I certainly didn't ask if you had the chance to call off your subordinates. Of course, we both know that. I don't think I'd be using my time or mine. But I wanted to ask. You yourself have admitted that you have some doubts. I have also noticed that the mayors of the mentioned municipalities in the region have written you a letter, where they intercede for the director. I just wanted to ask if the letter really left, if you got it and what you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u153	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u154	Thank you. Yes, I do. I got the letter. It's several mayors from around the national park. Other mayors just have a problem with the director's operation. But believe me, this is not about the number of letters that go in support or against. Of course, I am happy to meet those people who say they are satisfied with this activity, because I have some reservations, but above all I am talking about it and I will talk to Mr. Director Benda. I don't think my personnel footsteps for the whole time I've been in office are questionable. I haven't taken many personnel measures at all. There were expected to be many more. But I will really judge the director of Benda, as well as any other director of my organization, or the organisation that falls into the environmental department, really really by performance. I can assure you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u155	Thank you, Minister. The next is Mr. Václav Klaus for Minister Robert Plaga, who is not present here. I'll ask if he wants to load the interpellation. Yes, he does. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u156	It's hard, of course, without the minister, to address it. Minister Plaga, I am interviewing you on the upcoming concept of civil education. This issue was established around 2016 in the so-called House of Democracy and Human Rights, which was to establish a concept of civil education and gradually include it in our education system and RVPs in all schools. The members of the then government may have concluded that society is not civilly aware enough, so children need to be brought up for citizenship. This project created quite a lot of controversy for its ideal unilaterality. The government has changed, but those officials continue quietly in this project. Mr. Pelikán's got it in his head, he's made a big move, it's been going through the government in some way. Those who push the proposal have traditionally taken a European solution to help. They refer to the Council of Europe and its model of competences for the so-called democratic culture of coexistence with equals in culturally diverse democratic societies. I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the fact that our Committee on European Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies was very hard on this in March 2018. I quote: calls on the Ministry of Education not to apply this to the Czech education system, because the development of democratic competences must be based on values anchored in the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which are patriotism, freedom, human dignity, equality, responsibility, democracy, the rule of law and so on, not cultural diversity and other values mentioned in the European document. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So just a question. Are you going to sign and approve RVPs that would include ideological indoctrination of children, against the will of Parliament and contrary to the Constitution? Two. What is the Ministry's next approach to the concept of civil education, de facto the creation of a non-profit centre for civil education and other elected activists? Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u157	Thank you. As the Minister is not present at the meetings, he will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Another member in line is Mr Vlastimil Válek on behalf of Minister Miroslav Toman. Are you interested in reading the interpellation? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u158	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, are taking tablets. I am here to please the Prime Minister that I will contribute a small piece of the opposition Member to the electronisation of the state administration and will do so by sending my interpelation electronically. So I hope I make him happy with this. And I'm getting my hands on the interpellation. It's been almost a year since the media's case, virtually. debate, discussion, information on the fact that Agrofert Holding drew subsidies without owning the land on which it managed. It was part of the land, and it's not just Agrofert's problem, it's a problem for a number of farmers. And if it wasn't an assignment, probably not, then my question is very simple and simple: How does the Department of Agriculture control the fact that the owner, the one asking for subsidies, really manages the land because he rented the land or because he owns it? Of course, there are different situations. On foreign land without a contract, according to the information I received from about 15 farmers who sent me a request for this interpelation, a number of farmers are supposed to be managing. And there are several possibilities, in my opinion. The owner cannot be traced, which is possible because he no longer lives and so on. But then the owner of the land should pay the tax on the land and it should be mentioned in the grant application. Or whoever runs there just doesn't have a contract with the owner, eventually uses the land without the owner's consent and doesn't care who the owner is. So my question, which I will then put in that written interpelation, is how the Ministry of Agriculture checks whether whoever applies for a subsidy on the land on which they manage is because he owns it or because he has a contract with the owner of the land. How does this check go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u159	Thank you. Since the Minister is not present, the question will again be dealt with in writing within 30 days. Another is Mr Vít Kaňkovský, once again Minister Miroslav Toman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u160	Mr President, Mr absent Minister, I have already interrogated former Minister Milek before the holidays about the situation surrounding the cruststorm in the Czech Republic and asked about the planned actions of the Ministry of Agriculture in this area. In June this year, at the joint meeting of the Agriculture and Environment Ministers, representatives of the regions were decided to set up crews in all regions. Respectfully, in all seven regions, which are most affected by the barking calamity. The disaster teams started to work and my question to the Ministry of Agriculture is: How does the Ministry of Agriculture coordinate the work of these crews and how does it analyze their outputs? And whether there is any such coordination at all. At this point, it seems, at least according to the reports that I have, that the crews are working well within the regions, but the barking calamity is a really country-wide matter today. The second question leads to the amendment of Decree No. 83/1996, for which patiently, the forest owners are now eagerly waiting, but also representatives of the wood processing industry, and it concerns how the forest management and planting of new forests will continue to be set. So that's the second question. And the third question: In what way the Ministry of Agriculture, eventually the government, is going to support forest owners in the reclamation of shavings, which is currently growing. So that's three questions that point to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u161	Thank you for your intervention, it will again be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days. The next is Mr. Vojtěch Munzar for Minister Jan Kněžínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about the abolition of the ethics commission on account of alleged inexplicability. I want to ask you how the economy of dealing with the communist past is measured in the Justice Department. If it can even be measured. Because it's not about the cost of this commission's existence. It's about the symbol. This symbol is an independent body, an ethical commission that evaluates the appeals of members of the Third Resistance against the decision of the Ministry of Defence and also appreciates them. You're suggesting that I understand that the appeal institution against the Ministry of Defence will be the Ministry of Defence instead of an independent body. If the Secretary of Defense is doing this, the case will be judged in the final by the same officials who decide in the first instance. We're not kidding ourselves. I would just like to remind you that we are talking about people who have suffered under the Communist dictatorship who have not been able to carry out their jobs, often doing inferior work, and still have, for example, fewer pensions than former members of the Communist totalitarian security force. I think he deserves an independent assessment of his cases. So I want to ask you the real reasons that lead you to do this. Especially when the Ministry of Defence doesn't agree. And if you do not find it personally stupid to cancel the symbol in a situation where you are a member of the first government after 1989, which rules only because of the support of the communists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u163	Thank you, it will again be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days. The next enrollment is Mr. Jiří Ventruba for Minister Robert Plaga. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u164	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, under the Ministry of Education in 1996 under Act 272 Coll., secondary health schools were transferred, which until then were under the Ministry of Health. This step was, in my opinion, an unfortunate trigger mechanism for the gradual alarming lack of nurses in hospitals, mainly because the number of professional hours of theoretical and practical teaching was significantly reduced, which forced another one- or multi-annual education of graduates of secondary health schools. Last April, the House voted for their already improved education system, where there is no senseless need for higher education for nurses, but health care needs fully educated and qualified nurses already after graduating from high school. So I ask you, Minister, whether you are in favour of returning high schools to the Ministry of Health to ensure their full health education and return a sufficient amount of professionally theoretically and practically fully equipped nurses to hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u165	Thank you, it will again be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days. The next is Mrs Věra Kovářová on behalf of Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u166	Dear Minister, the importance of trusting the health sector is perhaps pointless to talk long enough. I think it's obvious. After watching Monday's report on the Czech News Agency about unethical but also illegal behavior of doctors who demanded large sums of ALS patients for providing treatment whose results were questionable, I was shaken. I think that such a case will necessarily affect the trust of Czech health care, but also science, of course, will be adversely affected. I know that according to the procedure of the Institute of Experimental Medicine, the ethics commission of the Ministry of Health has been dealt with. What result did she get? Has the Department of Health found more similar cases? And what has the Ministry done under your command, or can it do to prevent them from repeating themselves? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u167	Thank you. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u168	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is quite difficult to respond to, perhaps there is a bit of a pre-election period behind it. I don't want to push anybody, it's about one Senate candidate after all. Now it's kind of popping up. As far as I know, the whole thing happened a few years ago, I wasn't even at the Ministry of Health at the time. It's being used now. I can't evaluate it, I wasn't even here at the Department of Health. Yes, at the time, the ethics committee sat down, somehow judged the matter, gave an opinion. And that position is, I say, two years old, and that's the end of it. I don't know if there was an investigation or the police were investigating. I doubt it. In this regard, it is very hard to react whether it can be controlled better or not, whether there has actually been an illegal state. As far as I know, there really was no criminal proceedings, that the police were investigating it or that there was actually some fraud or something, virtually. fraud within the meaning of the qualification of a criminal offence of fraud. So, of course, the situation is unfortunate. If I have information, but I say very common, of course Professor Syková refuses to interpret it. That it was not as interpreted in the media. I can't really tell. If anything were to happen there, I suppose there would be some kind of punishment, and as far as I know, there wasn't one. I guess that's to see if there's any systemic solution. I doubt it. Just rules for clinical trials of drugs etc., experimental medicine etc., so they are set, controlled by the State Institute for Drug Control these things. It's not that the system isn't set or there are no rules. If something happens somewhere, of course it has to be investigated. But again, there has been no legal error in this matter. According to my information, no one was punished for this, no crime was committed there. So I guess that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u169	Thank you. The honourable Member is not interested in an additional question. Next in line is Mrs Pavla Golasowská. Please, madam, you have the floor. Interpelation to Secretary Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u170	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for sitting here as one of the few ministers. I appreciate it so much that I don't have to talk to an empty space. Madam Secretary, it was in the attic a few months ago. The Chamber of Deputies rejected several amendments to the draft pension insurance law aimed at improving the situation of retired mothers and widowed persons. I would like to quote former Minister Krčál on the amendments mentioned. I quote: As regards these amendments, it should be noted that such fundamental changes in pension insurance with significant financial implications should not be adopted on the basis of individual amendments, but should be the result of thorough analyses, impact assessments in all contexts, as well as a global consensus. I beg you, I intercede for that. And I ask you, Madam Secretary, how long does MPSV need to analyze and assess everything so that those who are financially discriminated receive stable financial support so that they do not have to ask for it in the form of batch systems every few months. Because various pension committees and working groups have been analyzing the situation of pensioners for 20 years, perhaps even more, and have not yet achieved anything. And maybe before they reach her, those who wait for her will die sooner. Therefore, I ask you to give a specific answer to the order of months or years in which you present the comprehensive pension concept for which pensioners are impatiently waiting. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u171	Thank you for keeping up with the time to present an interview and I will ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, pension reform is an important item in the Government's programming declaration. If you want up-to-date information, at this point, an expert work team has been created for pension reform, consisting of advisors and co-workers of the Prime Minister and then representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which means that this is a joint team of the Prime Minister and myself. At this point, these experts will address various topics that should be part of the pension reform. If you want to know specific topics, topics that we are discussing, this is for example. on the lower pensions of women, these were topics that were very resonated in connection with the recent pension reform, but also the things that are contained in the Government's programming declaration, i.e. earlier retirement for physically demanding professions, but also things such as. in the field of additional income and stabilization of the pension scheme. We're putting the individual areas together at the moment. Then a timetable will be set, with which the public, members of Parliament of the Czech Republic and experts from all areas will be informed. Of course, we will also involve representatives of the opposition in the whole process, because there is no more important question on which agreement is needed across the political spectrum than the question of pensions. I would also like to add that for all topics an analysis of the current situation and a search for a consensual solution is envisaged. As regards the time horizon for submitting proposals, a specific solution to the government, we assume that everything will be presented as planned by the end of 2020. At the same time, I would like to point out that two points in the Government's pension programme statement have already been met, and this is a recent increase in the basic pension ratio from 9 to 10 per cent, and then, of course, an increase of a thousand crowns to our old-timers, i.e. Seniors over 85 years of age. I would also like to point out in this context that the implementation of these measures from January next year, at present we are preparing a government regulation concerning pension valorisation, will mean an increase in pension by a fixed amount, namely CZK 570, which will help in particular low-income pensioners, namely women. They are also concerned with the second measure, an increase of CZK 1 000 85 plus. This means that even though we are discussing a systemic solution to lower women's pensions, we are already doing so. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u173	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will ask - the honourable Member is not interested in an additional question. We'll proceed to another interpellation. Member Jakub Michálek to Minister Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I must say that it is a real shame that the Minister is not here and that the rest of the government is not here, that there are only a few ministers. I'm here to complain about a very bad situation that happened with the appeal of the principal of the City of Prach... I almost said money, didn't I? This corresponds to the capital city of Prague. There was a situation - I was a Prague representative for three years and several times criticized the totally unfair practices at the Prague City Hall, where the director, she is said to belong to the ČSSD as well, and the director covered up some of the unfair practices that I pointed out. For example, I sent her an announcement that the former partner and current wife of an employee of the city council was an employee of Taiko, who got to rent Old Town and Wenceslas Square, or the most lucrative plots in Prague to organize markets there. This conflict of interest wasn't reported by the employee at all, and the principal, when she found out about it, didn't care at all. [[17.30 hours]] Another case of media-known sports grants, where the responsible director, who prepared a 50-million-dollar grant for the football union, took a trip to San Marino on a plane with Mr. Pelta. Again, violation of the Code of Ethics, conflict of interest. Again, I wrote Mrs. Děvěrová's announcement that there was a breach, and she swept it under the carpet again. So this is how the ČSSD worked at the Prague City Hall. And now that it's come out - [[Your time, please.]] Well, I guess I'll just fill it in on the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u175	Do not complete, there is no additional question, there is only a written answer to your interpelation. Since the Minister is not present, you will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u176	It's a shame the ministers aren't here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u177	The next in line is Mr Dominik Feri - for Minister Robert Plaga. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u178	Thank you for the floor. The opposition has hard bread, but a few questions very general. This year we commemorate many round anniversaries - 1918, 1938, 1948, 1968. And unfortunately, repeatedly surveys and polls show that especially young people have no idea what was going on back then. Not that they don't know specific things, but they don't even know the historical context. Probably the loudest example is a survey that she had made by Czech Television, which showed that a third of young people don't know what happened in 1968. And I am interested to know what the Minister thinks of this as a problem, whether he intends to go through his further activities at the Ministry for better teaching modern history and what projects may have been supported from him by the relevant budget chapter. Here, I think that we can work very closely in the future, it is a subject of extra-partisanism and I believe that it is also in the interests of the Minister that this awareness of modern history should be greater and more space and more attention will be given to him in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u179	Thank you. Once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days, there will be a written reply. Next in line is Mrs. Věra Kovářová - for Minister Robert Plaga. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u180	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister. The topic I'm addressing you with today is - enrollment tourism. A phenomenon that is repeated every year in months before school entry. A phenomenon that makes it difficult for many schools with a good name for their operation. This is the purpose of registering the child's permanent residence in the school area. Most are renowned schools where parents want their children to go, and changing their permanent residence will greatly increase their chances of fulfilling this wish. This is understandable, of course, that the parent wants quality education for his offspring. Schools and municipalities are basically defenseless against registration tourism. The capacity of schools is limited and, moreover, based on the long-term outlooks and data of the registry, they can do nothing about it when, in two months' time, dozens to hundreds of new children are suddenly appearing in their fallout area, which they should accept. Such an example may be Dobříš. Schools are often required to use the lottery selection method in competitions, and in this case, children who have a real permanent residence in the school area can also be harmed. The village then has the task of providing room for their children in another school. So my question is: in what way is the government going to address this issue so that quality education is available to all? Are you planning subsidy programmes to expand the capacity of primary schools or mechanisms for predicting an increase in demand for entry into a given school or, on the contrary, a legislative change that would reduce registration tourism? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u181	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Dominik Feri for Minister Dan Ťok. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u182	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Prime Minister is a good man, instead of answering my questions about the student and senior fare, he recommended that I watch Nova TV. Okay, thank you. Which is why I would like to ask you more specific questions. One. When was negotiated with carriers, with which carriers were negotiated, who of the Ministry of Transport conducted these negotiations. The next question is whether the amount of compensation has also been discussed, and from what prices it will be calculated, whether from prices of action, or from a kilometer scale, or from a kilometer price list. And further, if anyone is to be held responsible on the side of the Ministry of Transport. Furthermore, if the Minister of Transport sees any connection with the personnel changes that have now taken place in the Czech Railways. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u183	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Next is Mr. Jakub Michálek - for Minister Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u184	Thank you for the floor. I want to ask you how it is with the resolution of Mr Krejsa's situation, which was installed in the Czech Post and which allegedly receives according to the list. The predecessor of the Minister, Mr Metnar, has promised to investigate, so I would be interested in the outcome of this investigation. And I wanted to add to the case at the Ministry. I simply do not understand how it is possible that the Minister, who is a member of the ČSSD, decides on Mrs Děvěrová from the Prague City Council, who was called away for covering up corruption against people like Březina and Co., also from the ČSSD, when Mr Hamáček is the chairman of this party. So he's put in there to cover these things and legalize it. So I don't like it at all, and I would like to show constant practice that in exactly the same way the Ministry of the Interior, which has now denied consent to Mrs. Děvěrová's withdrawal from the Prague City Council, has done the same thing for the last twenty years, respectively. From the time of the regional establishment in 2001, so as to prove that the ministry does it everywhere, because otherwise it is not possible. In addition, they decided on the comment Mrs. Děvěrová wrote herself, so it absolutely doesn't have any meaningful value.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u185	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line is Mrs Pavla Golasowská - for Minister Robert Plaga. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u186	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to address you with the problem of how health chairs are in schools. If a lot of lying children attend the school, there is a good positioning chair necessary. But such chairs cost 80 to 100,000 crowns. The advantage is that the chair is growing, but the number of chairs in the schools is inadequate because the medical chair is prescribed by the doctor, which is covered by the health insurance company, and this chair is kept by the parent at home. The problem then arises at school, where the special educational center has some medical chairs, but they are not positioning. By law, the school should secure the conditions, but the school doesn't have the funds. He may receive some subsidies, but the highest subsidy on the chair is about CZK 10,000. Therefore, Minister, I ask you whether you would try to solve the problem of these positioning chairs. Perhaps even in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u187	Thank you for keeping time. Once again, it will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Vít Kaňkovský - for Minister Marta Nováková. As Mr Vít Kaňkovský is not in the Chamber, we will proceed to the next enlisted Member, Dominik Feri. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u188	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask the Minister about the matter of the judges. Recently, in connection with the Ministry's orders on the selection of judges, discussions on the remuneration of the assistants of judges and of the judicial examiners have stirred up. It is very strange and very unfortunate if the persons on whom the decision-making activities of the Czech courts are largely based, because they prepare proposals, decisions and other documents for the judges, lose the hope that they will live with dignity, start a family in the foreseeable future, and otherwise be implemented outside work. Some may wonder: " For many other people also live badly. But if we want to have a good judge, we have to bring in the best law school graduates. If we want the best graduates, it's not possible for them to go into one of the most cute legal professions with the idea that they won't be able to start a family for five or more years, they'll have to live in shared housing, or they'll have some more melouches next to a job in justice. Alternatively, judges will become people who come from wealthy families, which will not be of much benefit to social justice and reconciliation if we have judges from only the highest social class of society to decide on others. So, Minister, I would like to ask you about your plans to improve the terms and conditions of the judicial examiners and the date of their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u189	Thank you. Once again, it will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next in line is Mr Jakub Michálek for Minister Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u190	I started a small survey here among the ministers because I was warned that the fish smelled from the head, and if our Chamber of Deputies and our government didn't learn to use modern technology, then we can't expect the authorities to handle it. So I wanted to ask the Minister whether he was using an electronic signature for official correspondence, such as decisions taken pursuant to the Administrative Code, when he was acting as an appeal against the Ministry, or in some other form, such as in response to interpelation, to any official correspondence he was conducting. And this is actually a question that I'm going to ask more ministers, so then I'm going to refer to this definition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u191	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for asking. Dear colleague, without any cliché, I can say that the electronicisation of the circulation of documents within the Ministry of the Environment is one of our priorities for the internal functioning of the Office, and I can prove that the Ministry of Environment last year, for example. launched a new system of electronic file service AthensA, which enabled the transition to electronic circulation of documents within the Ministry where possible. Documents delivered in paper form are scanable so that they can continue to circulate in electronic form. Documents delivered electronically, of course, are already exclusively electronically being printed only if it is necessary to work with them. Most of the Office's internal communication and cooperation to process the documents received are now being done in electronic form. At the same time, documents are prepared, processed, approved and signed primarily in digital form at the Ministry. Authorized conversion is commonly used for electronically signed documents to analog form in cases where their delivery by data mailbox system is not possible. When sending, the digital document is usually automatically sealed by the Ministry's qualified electronic seal. After using an electronic signature or seal, the document is always stamped with a time stamp that ensures their validity in real time. In analogue, i.e. paper, documents are processed in cases where this is necessary for objective reasons, e.g. patronage of the Ministry, documents handed over personally, etc. The above applies also to documents which I sign personally, i.e. I electronically sign documents issued electronically using a USB token, nicknamed in my family toucan, in the file service system, to speed up my work, the Secretariat prints documents for me so that I can get to know them faster and more easily. Other, i.e. documents, I sign classically. However, since electronic signing of documents is time-consuming, certainly more demanding than regular signing and sometimes difficult to match with the Minister's work, we are now preparing an adjustment of the process of signing documents towards a more efficient use of authorized conversion of documents. This method will mean easier processing of documents already in their creation and subsequent signing and possible sending outside the Ministry, i.e. the document signed by me, in an analogue form, shall go through official authorized conversions into electronic form and be made out electronically as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u193	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u194	So that's what I was a little worried about, 'cause that's the digitalization of the dot, that they sign the papers, and then they scan and send it to each other. This is what I knew from the Prague City Hall, where when two officials wanted to send an e-mail, they filled out a form that said Official Notice, signed it, scanned it and sent it to each other by e-mail, and that's how they got it. So I think if you're signing it electronically with a token, that's a good thing, that's the right move, I commend it, but the idea that you want to go back to paper and employ another scanner for that seems like a step backwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u195	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, are you interested? You do. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u196	Be lenient with us, colleague, we're older, but we'll just learn it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u197	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Pavla Golasowská on behalf of Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u198	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in May of this year you were approached by doctor Jan Vojáček with a request that you, as a minister, begin to deal with the diet of patients in hospitals. That it is not a varied diet, where vegetables and fruit are missing, we all know. The menu of patients who are often monotonous and still the same after demanding surgery procedures, or children's diets, parents or seniors. For breakfast, hot rolls with melt, doughnuts, sweets, christmas, dumplings for lunch and fried cheese for dinner, pâtés, salamis. This certainly is not a menu suitable for sick and convalescents. I realize that a more varied diet is also a matter of funding, but financial flows to health are increasing and the allocation of some of the money to a better diet would certainly also contribute to the faster recovery of patients and, in turn, to their faster return to work or personal and family life. You promised Dr. Vojáček that you would deal with this problem, and I ask you, Minister, what has changed since May and when patients in hospitals can look forward to a better diet. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u199	Thank you for keeping time, and Minister Adam Vojtěch has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u200	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. Madam, thank you for the interpellation. You are quite right, and you can see that you are monitoring social networks, that the negotiations have actually taken place with Dr. Vojáček. It is true that there was even a show here a few months ago that was so illustrative about the diet in Czech hospitals. I would say quite intensively, although it was not quite in the Ministry of Health in the past, perhaps there are some other things that are being addressed, although I do not want to do anything about it, I think it makes sense to deal with it. I'm sure I agree that the diet in hospitals has an impact on the quality of care, and there are hospitals that collect data about patients' satisfaction and try to work with it. I met with Dr. Vojáček, the cooperation continues, he contacted the Faculty Hospital in Olomouc, which is directly controlled by the hospital, with the director, so there he is preparing, virtually. Some of his colleagues, a pilot project, communicates there, communicates with IKEM and others. I think it's slowly starting. [[17.50 hours]] What we are trying to solve systemicly is the question of some basic rules, those nutritional values, etc. I also met with representatives of the professional society, especially the Society of Clinical Nutrition and intensive metabolic care of the Czech Medical Society J E Purkyn, who are actually experts in this regard. We came together in a relatively large circle of people, and we talked about the fact that the rules, as they are set, are basically originally from the 1950s. Although she's been a little revised since then, the last revision took place somewhere in the early 1990s for hospital food rules. And we have actually agreed that there should be changes to those rules, to update the standards of nutritional care. It's also about hospitals, of course, the way they set it up. Of course, it would be ideal if every hospital had its nutritional therapists, its constitutional dietologists, who are therefore responsible for the diet system in every hospital. It is also true that these needs must be followed by the individual needs of a particular patient. She's a healthy person's diet is a little different than a patient's diet... Even experts say that sometimes, of course, I don't want to flatten it, it's good to at least get something into the patient if he has some major apathy, etc. So it's about an individual approach. But we are really trying to deal with this with a professional society, we are actively communicating. We had our first meeting here. We now have a second meeting scheduled for September, when they should already come up with concrete proposals on how to update the rules on nutrition standards in hospitals, to change them. I agree with you that this is definitely about money. She's set up a unit for a day for a patient who's somehow defined by money. It is true that extra money goes to health, of course, and it goes historically the most. Yet you may see in the media that the main objective is to support staff salaries. So sometimes, unfortunately, there's no money left for these things. But I'm sure it'll be one of the proposals from the expert group, which, as I said before, will meet and meet. And I'll wait for their suggestions. So in conclusion, I can only say that it is not that it is only one contribution on social networks. I am really doing this, and I think that in the foreseeable future, let's say during the autumn, we could have on the table some concrete measures that could be really systemic in terms of changing the rules, defining the need, perhaps some financial increase in the food unit per patient, etc. Then I'm sure I'd be happy to inform you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u201	Thank you, Minister, for keeping the time precise. Is there an interest in an additional question? It's not. So probably the last of the interpelations. Mrs Věra Kovářová to Minister Lubomír Metnar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u202	Dear Minister, with great concern, I have read an article recently published presenting the Government's intention to abolish the Ethical Commission of the Czech Republic for Resistance and Resistance Awards. The article itself argues by reducing the number of meetings of the Commission, in other words, that this commission is no longer needed and its powers should be passed on to the Minister of Defence, that is, to you. I was partially relieved by this report. However, some of my concerns remain. The explanatory memorandum also states that funds should be saved. I believe that even if a committee discusses a single case each year, its existence makes sense, and the funds for its operation are spent correctly even in light of recent history. Furthermore, account must be taken of the expertise and knowledge of the commission, which cannot be easily replaced. I firmly believe that the intention to abolish the Ethics Commission for the Resistance and Resistance to Communism really arose only from an attempt to investigate. Dear Minister, there are various speculations that this government's move is at the instigation of the KSČM, thanks to which the government has gained confidence. Can you please disprove these speculations for me, or not? And tell me who is the instigator of this purpose? What steps will the government take, or respectively. The Ministry of Defence, to ensure continuity in the negotiation of resistance participants against communism? In case the agenda is transferred to the Ministry of Defence, who will be the review and appeal body? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u203	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u204	Thank you. Mr President, Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members. Your question concerns, of course, an amendment to the Act on Resistance and Resistance to Communism. This proposal, which was put forward by the Minister of Justice in the interdepartmental review procedure, was really intended to abolish the ethics commission. I disagreed with the proposal because the proposed legislation lacks relevant justification for amending the existing legislation. I'm going to give you the reasons that led me to this. The Ethics Commission is an independent professional administrative body sui generis, decisive as a collective body. Its abolition would result in a fundamental systemic change in the manner of second-instance decision-making. The Ethics Commission is supposed to guarantee the ethical side of decision-making to a greater extent when dealing with border and extreme cases. It shall be and shall be an independent, secondary administrative authority, functionally separate from the first-degree administrative authority. I have recently seen an increase in the number of applications for certification in the agenda, in order of dozens of applications per month. During the last three months, some 140 new applications have been submitted, five times more than in previous periods. I have discussed these reasons with the Minister of Justice, who has promised me to withdraw the proposal for the above reasons and to end the ongoing legislative process. The Ethics Committee will therefore be preserved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u205	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Will there be an additional question? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u206	Just fast. I don't know if you've been able to answer the question, so who's going to be the review and appeal authority? If it's in your head, then?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u207	Please, Minister, you're interested, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u208	The review and appeal body will, of course, be the Ministry of Defence here in this, as proposed. Because if we shut down the committee, I'd be the prime organ. It would be wrong. Well, if that's enough, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-003-169.u209	Thank you. We have exhausted today's interpelation because the last interpellation can be submitted at the latest according to the Rules of Procedure at 17.55 minutes. Since we have 17.58, I am terminating today's meeting and we will continue tomorrow at 9.00. Thank you.
