ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government - yes, I have a plural here, honourable Members of the Government, we have two members of the Government - I am opening on the third day of the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards, or tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. In this connection, I should like to inform you that Mr Pražák has a replacement card number 1. I don't have any other requests here at the moment. I declare that these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to participate in the negotiations. It is Mr Ondřej Benešík due to a foreign business trip, Mr Vondráček Radek - a foreign trip, but this is from the afternoon meeting, Mrs Balaštíková Margita - health reasons, Mr Bartoš Ivan until 14.30 working reasons. Yes, Mr. Volný - spare card number 2. So I'm gonna keep apologizing. Mr Bauer Jan - foreign travel, Mr Běhounek Jiří - foreign travel, Mr Blaha Stanislav - health reasons, Mr Bláha Jiří - working grounds, Mr Cernohorský Lukáš - working grounds, Mr Černohorskýý Lukáš - working grounds, Mr Černý František - medical reasons, Mrs Dražilová Lenka - working Levová, Mr Farský Rakušan from 15.00 to 19.00 - working grounds, Mr Petr Gazdík - personal Vít, Mr Hamáček Jan - medical Květa, Mr Polanský Pikal - Ondřej Taťána, Member chovanec Milan - working grounds, Mr Chvojka without giving a reason, Mr Janulík Miloslav - working Mihola, Mr Juchelka Aleš until 10.30 - working grounds, Mr Juránek Stanislav - working Plzák - Pavel Ivo - working Matušovská, Member Pávek - working Petr, from abroad, Member Kobza Jiří from 13.30 to 19.00 - working Kolovratník, Member Řehounek Martin until 11.30 - health reasons, Member Koníček Vladíček Vladimír from 10 hours - working grounds, Mr. Jan from 1.00 to 19.00 - health reasons, Mr Schwarzenberg Karel - health reasons, Mr Lubomír - health reasons, Mr Špičák Julius within 11 hours - working reasons, Mr Třešňák Petr - family reasons, Mr Válek Vlastimil - working reasons, Mrs Válková Helena - health reasons, Mr Veselý Ondřej - family reasons, Mrs Vildumetzová Jana - working reasons, Mr Vymazal Tomáš - health reasons, Mr Vyzula Rostislav - family reasons, Mr Zaorálek Lubomír - health reasons and Mr Zlesák Radek from 14 hours - working reasons. Furthermore, members of the Government apologize from the Chamber of Deputies. Milek Jiří - working reasons, Němcová Jaroslava morning meeting - working reasons, Pelikán Robert within 11 hours - working reasons, Plaga Robert from 17.30 - working reasons, Stropnickýý Martin within 11 hours - working reasons, Ťok Dan - working reasons. We will begin today's meeting with a point
