ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-015-050.u1	50. Members of Radka Maxová, František Kopřiva, Petr Dolínek, Vít Rakušan, Jiří Dolejš, Dominik Feri and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 201/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 201, first reading. I ask that the proposal put forward by the appellants' representatives, Mrs Radka Maxová. Madam, you have the floor. Please. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Calm down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let the lady express herself here. It's really noisy here so we can hear what the plaintiff is saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-015-050.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since I see a large number of 21 entries, such quantities are not usual, I dare say that this is a subject that is quite interesting to many colleagues and colleagues and that the debate will be Mayy, interesting. Some speeches are also announced for three quarters of an hour. I think that some will get to today, some unfortunately not, and that we will continue this point at the earliest possible date for the next meeting. [[Big noise in the left side of the hall.]] Although most of you know, of course, what the amendment to the Civil Code is about, I dare say the basic facts here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-015-050.u3	Calm down, please. Please rest on the left side of the spectrum. Okay. The guilty realized it. [[Ambassador Birke shows he's already locking his mouth.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-015-050.u4	Thank you. The proposed modification does not create any special regime for gays and lesbians, only the existing and functioning system extends to them. This will solve three types of basic problems. We will no longer distinguish between us and them and all relationships with the same legal dignity. Children raised in the same sex couples will cease to live in legal uncertainty. And these are practical things, such as community wealth, entitlement to certain social benefits, maintenance, inheritance, etc. The main points of the amendment to the Civil Code are the amendment of Section 655, where the words "marriage is a permanent union of men and women" are changed to "marriage is a permanent union of two people." We do not interfere with assumptions, which means that they will continue to apply exactly the same as today, which are Sections 778 and 3020. For example, if a woman who is married to another woman starts a child with assisted reproduction, her wife will not automatically be considered to be the second mother of a child, as is the case in Belgium. That's what happens when you're adopted. Furthermore, the amendment to the Civil Code will be reflected in the amendment to the adoption and joint adoption, which is accessible only to spouses, which are Sections 800 and 832. Furthermore, this amendment interferes with pension insurance laws, population records, birth numbers, matrices and specific health services. [[15.50 hours]] What happens to the registered partnership we currently have? Registered partnerships already concluded will remain in force. In the future, however, it will no longer be possible to close a new one. The already concluded will be possible to change into a marriage by marriage. This is the way that all states that have been in the same situation as us have married only for heterosexual couples and registered partnerships only for homosexual couples. I will now introduce you to the main selected differences between marriage and registered partnership. Why do we want to straighten out the rights for the same sex couples and heterosexual? Husbands. Marriage is the cornerstone of family law. Registered partners. The registered partnership is an administrative act. Fiancé can marry on almost any matrix, registered partners only at 14 designated offices. Husbands or fiancés have two witnesses. Registered partners without witnesses, not regulated in the law. The fiancé's statement is made before the mayor, vice-groom or appointed member of the council. It is therefore a sort of festive act, whereas registered partners only in front of a registrar or a registrar. Married couples get relatives, e.g. Brother-in-laws, sisters-in-laws. Their relationship is recognised by the law, whereas with registered partners, the law does not recognise these relationships. Which are basically, you could say, symbolic differences. Now a few practical ones. Fiancés are entitled to two days off for a wedding, not registered partners. The fiancé automatically acquires the husband's common property. For registered partnerships, it does not arise automatically. They're just mutual co-owners. Fiancées can determine that they will use the same surname, common surname, whereas for registered partners this cannot be done, additional requests may be made. Husbands are entitled to a widow's and widow's pension, not registered partners. And after the death of the husband or wife, the entitlement to various benefits, pensions, sickness benefits, etc., while not to registered partners. The basic thing of this novel is also in relation to children. We are once again equalizing rights for children in identical sex and heterosexual couples. A husband can have a second husband's child, not in a registered partnership. Husbands can adopt a child from an institution, not registered partners. Husbands can be joint foster parents, not registered partners. Important: The condition of divorce is the adjustment of the relationship with the child. The registered partnership is not regulated, and this is a fundamental threat to children's standard of living. The deceased's children are his legal heirs and, at the same time, unmistakable heirs. It's about marriage. For registered partners and children living in identical sex couples, children are not legally entitled to inherit from partners who die. And even though he's raising them, he's not their biological legal parent. Last but not least, children in married couples are entitled to an orphan's pension from their parents. Children in the same sex couples do not have this right in relation to a partner who is not their legal parent. The Council of Europe does not recommend adopting a ban on marriage in the constitutions of the Member States and, on the contrary, recommends allowing for reconciliation and joint adoption. On 10 October 2018, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution of 60 votes in favour, 14 against and 5 abstained, which calls on the Member States not to adopt such amendments to the Constitution and legislation that would prevent the recognition of identical marriages or other forms of rainbow families, and instead left these decisions to the legislators or the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this amendment to the Civil Code is quite essential for the same sex couples. For their children. I believe we will learn a lot of arguments here for, a lot of arguments against. However, I think that this is a human rights issue that needs to be discussed on the platforms of the various committees, whether it is the Social Guarantee Committee or further identified by the Constitutional Committee. I am very pleased, although in time, that the debate will not be a big one. But it may also be large because I will now request a merger of the debate on points 50 and 52, that is, the Civil Code and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, so that, in fact, even if there are two contradictory proposals, but one can say the same issue, we will actually discuss in one time frame. So I would like to vote on the merger of the debate afterwards. Thank you so much. I believe I'm not at the counter for the last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-015-050.u5	Thank you. I am reflecting on your proposal, so if we can agree, I will let the rapporteur speak again and then we would vote on this first point before the debate is opened, I would open the second point and then we will vote on the merger of the debate. Mr. Marek Novák, please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-015-050.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues, the proposed Parliamentary Bill aims to allow same-sex persons to marry under the Civil Code under the same conditions and with all the legal consequences resulting therefrom, such as. for persons of the opposite sex entering the marriage. It is proposed to repeal the Act on Registered Partnerships. New registered partnerships could no longer be concluded. Existing registered partnerships would be kept in force, but also registered partners should be able to marry. The proposal envisages that same-sex spouses would also have the same rights and obligations as spouses of the opposite sex, such as property, pension, as well as rights and obligations to children they raise and access to family replacement care. Legally it is a change of several laws, first of all the Civil Code, then the Act on Pension Insurance, the Act on Population Registration, the Act on Matrixes, name and surname, and finally the Act on Specific Health Services. The effectiveness shall be proposed on the first day of the third calendar month following its publication. The Government has given a favourable opinion on the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-015-050.u7	Thank you. I have here now the proposal by Mrs Radka Maxová to bring the debate together, so we will vote on it. So I'll call you to the conference room. I'm gonna ask you, I'm gonna check you out, sign up again with your voting cards. So I'm going to specify what we're going to vote on. Before the Members arrive, I will read one apology. Minister Antonín Staněk's apology from today's meeting from 15.45 to 19 o'clock for work reasons. Once again, I will read so that we can see what prints we have a request for a merge of the general debate. So it's the press we're discussing now, it's point 50, House press 201, civil code. And the proposal is to merge the debate with paragraph 52, House press 211, which is the proposal of Members of Marek Výborný, Pavel Bělobrádek, Marian Jurečka, Jan Bartošek, Pavla Golasowská, Aleš Juchelka and others to issue a constitutional law amending Resolution No. 2/1993 Coll., Bureau of the Czech National Council on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as part of the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, as amended. [[16.00 hours]] So I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of merging the debate, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes the merger of the debate, press the button and raise your hand. In voting number 241, 143 Members registered, for 137, against 4. The motion was accepted. So I'm interrupting this point right now, and I'm going to open point 52. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to this, because we will have a merged debate, so that, of course, the Members who have a number of applications, if you have any suggestions, are able to determine exactly what press the proposals are going to, so that we can note this here as leadership, and then we can properly divide your proposals in the debate. So now I'm opening another point. It's a point number.
