ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-005-023.u1	23. The proposal of Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Alena Gajdůškovášková and Jan Bartošek to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 99/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 99/1. prosit refer to Mr Vít Kaňkovský for the appellants. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-005-023.u2	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. As has already been said, today we are discussing two prints dealing with the amendment of the same law, namely the amendment to the Law on Aid in Material Need, and both aim to remedy certain problems that have arisen after the application of the last amendment to the Act on Material Need, and this specifically concerns the vouchers for benefits in material distress, namely, for a living. As my colleague Jana Pastuchová has already said, we see some problems there, which have essentially emerged immediately after the entry into force of the provisions on vouchers, i.e. as of 1 December 2017. What makes us different is the extent of the problems that this provision has brought about. On the contrary, the fact that we do not differ is that there is a need to combat dose abuse. That is what I think we are united in, and I also report that we have supported the change that we are actually discussing today in the last parliamentary term, because we believed that this would bring about an improvement in the system and that we will actually fight against the abuse of benefits effectively. However, as it turns out, practical applications are not as we imagined, and for some groups of people who are particularly handicapped, or are concerned with people who are in social care or in health care institutions for a long time, but also for seniors, the system of vouchers is inscrutable and, as a result, is rather damaging. [[12.00 hours]] There are many more problems to be dealt with. I'll just mention some of them here. I suppose we would then discuss them in more detail in the committees. I will not entirely agree with my colleague Pastuchová that our proposal by naming the groups of the most vulnerable, thus somehow disqualifying the others. I don't think so, but again, it's really for discussion on the committee. So I will mention the biggest problems that we face when we discuss with citizens, and I must say that I have also had a number of incentives to amend this law. The biggest woes are about the network of shops, especially in the countryside, because while in large cities such as Prague, Brno etc., certainly affected will find a store in the availability of public transport, where it can buy goods for vouchers - and it is necessary to talk about the fact that they are not only food, but they are also hygienic needs and some pharmaceutical supplies - so there are a number of settlements in the country where the client can't in some way satisfy these vouchers and he is waiting to travel sometimes even to quite remote settlements. If we're talking about disabled people or elderly people, it's a big problem for them. It is also a big problem for guardians, where many mayors work as guardians for clients with various degrees of disability, and there is also criticism that this makes the situation difficult for them in a significant way. I must say that our proposal does not contain one provision which, on the contrary, contains the proposal by Mrs Pastuchová, and these are patients, clients who are long-term hospitalized in medical establishments. This concerns, in particular, psychiatric -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-005-023.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can all hear what the plaintiff has to say. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-005-023.u4	This applies mainly to patients, clients in psychiatric hospitals, who are on long-term treatment, and also about them I received, respectively. We received comments from psychiatric hospital staff. I must say that, on the contrary, it contains a proposal by Mrs Pastuchová. On this issue, the Government Agency for Social Inclusion has also expressed itself, which has also given an exhaustive number of problems that the current legal situation contains. In particular, it commented on the lack of a network of outlets where vouchers can be paid, as well as on the availability of such vouchers as such. Our bill deals with several areas and eliminates some shortcomings. I certainly do not think that it removes any shortcomings that we have encountered in the application of the last amendment towards vouchers. As has already been said, problems are in social services residences. That's one area our novel is dealing with. Then there are taxatically listed persons who should be removed from the mandatory application of vouchers. This applies to persons who are granted third degree disability, then they are carers, because the carers also belong to a circle of people who are at risk of applying the current amendment, so that children under the age of 10 are actually granted first degree assistance, adults are 2 to 4, and those who have been admitted to care in categories 2 to 4 and seniors over 68 years of age. As I have already mentioned here, this also applies to persons who have an appointed guardian. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to release both of these proposals for second reading. Then I think we have a rather complex and broad discussion. I assume that the Guarantee Committee will be the Committee on Social Policy, but I think that it is the effort of all those concerned to remedy the current situation, and I believe that we will come to a compromise that will help people in the most difficult situations of life, but rather that the Institute will be included in the fight against the abuse of these benefits. Maybe I'll take one heretical sentence here. In fact, the previous amendment before the current amendment was effective allowed the authorities to apply the voucher system. This means that individual approach to clients has already been possible. Unfortunately, it has not been applied so much in practice. And I'm gonna have to stand up for the workers here a little bit. It's not always easy for a client, if it's really just variable, to say, "Here I give you the voucher because you're the abuser, you buy alcohol and cigarettes for it, and that's why you only get the voucher. A truly effective model needs to be sought to help people in the most difficult situations of life and, on the other hand, to fight effectively against benefit abusers. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-005-023.u5	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-005-023.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to talk for long. Let me also comment on this House press under number 99, which is a competitive proposal by Members from KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates, ČSSD and others on the already described proposal by ANO Members, i.e. the House press 89. The aim is also to correct the legislation of the previous parliamentary term, based on the knowledge of the National Council of the disabled. This proposal is not all that legislative, which is also highlighted by the Government's negative position. This press goes far beyond the restrictions proposed in the Houses of the Press 89 by its proposal. It has been spoken, I think, of both proposals, plaintiff. In addition to the cancellation of vouchers in social facilities, the proposal from this regime also excludes persons who are disabled in third degree, persons who are personally caring for a child under the age of 10, persons who have been appointed guardian, persons over 68 years of age. They also support their proposals for restrictions on the outputs of the Government Agency for Social Inclusion, which notes, among other things, that there are no shops in some municipalities that accept vouchers, these people will have to spend money to provide basic food, clothing and sanitation for commuting to larger cities. The idea of a state like this preventing the poor from buying alcohol and cigarettes is naive. There are always traders who will be willing to issue these goods for a voucher or even redeem them for half the value. I must say that the current exchange rate for this buy-in is, I think, 10:8, so the reality that some of our smaller traders are buying these vouchers exists. I think we can all agree across the political spectrum that legislative regulation is necessary. That is why I recommended that we discuss these prints together and on the Committee on Social Policy, as has already been said here, hopefully it will be a guarantee, we will try to find a common consensus solution through amendments to one of the media. Let me also say that we should be aware, however, that the adoption of this regulation is very positive in practice, i.e. where there has been considerable abuse of social benefits. But it is only a drop in the sea. Yes, the possibility to pay a percentage of the subsistence allowance was already in the past, but it always had to be demonstrated by the competent labour office that the payment had been made on the basis of a serious finding which led them to this. Of course, it was mostly about the abuse of benefits, but this led to the fact that the actual demonstration of this fact was very problematic in practice. That is why I am also asking all my colleagues to help them find a compromise and remedy the current situation, but not to allow this adjustment to be eliminated to the fullest extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-005-023.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm interrupting this point.
