ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u1	14. The proposal by Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a constitutional law amending Constitutional Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended Constitutional Laws 40/ - First Reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 40/1. I will ask the Vice-President and the plaintiffs' representative Tomio Okamura to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. [[Information off the microphone.]] aha, Vice-President Okamura says that the plaintiffs' representative will be Mr. So I ask him to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. I will ask the same thing that Mr Jan Farskýý should take his place as rapporteur for the first reading at the rapporteur's table. But he's missing. Okay, so we're gonna have to decide to change the rapporteur. The Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee will take that as his own. No, my colleague Farský is here, so it's okay. Otherwise, I'd have to call on the chairman of the constitutional committee. My colleague Farský is in position. I will therefore ask Mr Rozvoral, Mr Kvoral, to state, as representatives of the appellants, the press, with the fact that he now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Dear Government, the SPD movement proposes this Act, which amends the constitutional law number 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended by later constitutional laws. This is an amendment to Articles 101, 102 and 104 of Title VII of the Territorial Authority. Our SPD movement wishes to provide legal support for the subsequent adoption of implementing regulations on the direct election of mayors, governors and representatives of local authorities by submitting an amendment to this constitutional law. This is led by an effort leading to a better democracy and a revival of governance in the Czech Republic. Primarily, the personal responsibility of the mayor, mayor or captain is expected to be highlighted from the direct election leading to higher stability of the municipal and regional system. There should be a substantial strengthening of citizens' confidence by actively participating in governance. Last but not least, the citizens' interest should also be increased, taking part in the elections. The current legal situation is completely unsatisfactory for this proposed change, as it promotes collective irresponsibility. The mayor or the chieftain often has to enforce the demands of members of the council or council, but they are not responsible for them. Moreover, indirectly elected mayors and captains may not always have public support in the territory of the relevant territorial unit or their council, and therefore have only a very weak mandate to implement the necessary changes in the public interest. We would find examples of such a condition in a number of ways. In large public corporations, the tendency of large political parties is rather to reject the direct choice, due to the possible weakening of their influence. For the time being, for example, the introduction of a direct election in the Austrian federal state of Salzburg, where the direct election was introduced on a flat-rate basis, but with the exception of the capital of Salzburg. Here was the introduction of a direct election only later. The introduction of a direct election of representatives should contribute to increasing the participation of the citizens of municipalities in self-government, increasing the trust of citizens in self-government, and also eliminating certain shortcomings, such as, first, the fundamental decision-making of only the mayors in smaller municipalities, where the council of the municipality is not elected, and the exercise of the authority of the council is only formal; Secondly, the mayor of the municipality is very often elected as a person resulting from the coalition agreement of the political parties and is therefore not the person who has won the most preferential votes in the elections; Thirdly, the citizens of the municipality often identify the decision-making activities of the municipal council and sometimes the council with the person of the mayor in the municipalities where the council is not elected. The choices already have a character that is approaching a really direct choice. The advantages of direct elections are therefore seen in the fact that, through the direct election of the mayor of the municipality, mayor of the statutory city or the governor, it is possible to create representatives of self-government with a strong political mandate under direct public control. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is the best form of the political life of human society. Most political scientists and politicians agree on that. With the development of society, rules for the application of democratic principles need to be adapted. The direct election of the mayor of the municipality or the governor is the most democratic from the perspective of the electorate from the possibility of the provisions of the elected representative of the municipality or region. It is clear to the voters that his interests will be defended by the person he pointed directly to. The society wants a strong, understandable and readable leader who can tear down the crowd with his charisma. We would thus give citizens the opportunity to participate more in governance and thus increase their civic interest in elections as such by direct choice of captains, mayors or mayors. I hereby ask you for our SPD movement to release the bill into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u3	Thank you, counselors. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jan Farský to submit his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft amendment to the Constitution, the amendment to the basic law of the Czech Republic, was submitted on 22 December 2017, with the view that an opinion of compatibility has been drawn up which states that it is not in conflict and that the Government's position, which sent it to us on 25 January 2018, has been drawn up. In this opinion on the draft law, which only goes to the Constitution, it is one of the essential comments that is already in the Government's position, so it defines that it is only stipulated that the mayors, but also the captains, will be elected directly, will be elected for a term of four years. But what the government, I would say rightly, reproaches, neither in the explanatory report, nor in any accompanying law on changes to the law on municipalities or the Regional Law, does not indicate how the powers of individual executors of these new rights would be adjusted at the same time, and if only a direct election occurred, the mayor was strengthened, but at the same time he would be strengthened by a direct choice, but nothing changed in his powers, so it could trigger it, and it probably caused major difficulties in the whole functioning of these municipalities. The Act also has the proposed effectiveness on 1 July 2018 with reference to the fact that it should be used already for this year's municipal elections. Now, I don't know exactly what word the government used in its correctness, but I think it's kind of unrealistic. Because you just can't make it. It's a constitutional law, it has to go through the Senate, and the Senate has to approve it. There is no chance of voting over the House. It must come out in the Collection and other laws would have to be prepared to reflect this amendment to the Constitution, and it simply cannot be done by 1 July or October when there will be municipal elections. What the government says next is that it does not solve this proposal at all, how would they possibly appeal directly to the elected, because there is only information about how they would be directly elected. There is no transitional provision for how it would be handled if this were to occur over time. Costs are not determined. And it is not yet solved that this proposal is even contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-government, which is binding on the Czech Republic because it was published in the Collection of Laws under the number 181/1999, which says that municipalities must be managed by collective bodies, and here comes a situation where it could only be managed by the mayor. The negative I listed here is indeed the government's full position. I didn't actually find a positive. Yet the result is neutral. And the government's position, even if the text that denies it after that opinion, would rather suggest that the government's position should be negative. He's neutral, so I'm here to lecture him. That's all for the rapporteur at the moment. I see that the discussion will be rich, and I will return to the next if I do so in individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate where I have eight applications and, before that, two priority applications, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura and Vice-President of Vojtěch Pikal. Vice-President Okamura was the first to be entered in the debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are standing before the discussion of the draft constitutional law from the pen of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - SPD, which introduces a direct choice and, in turn, the rescindability of mayors and captains, respectively. This law makes it possible. We consider our proposal as mine. also for the first step towards the rebuttal of politicians. As with all the laws put forward by our SPD movement, this is not about some political purposer, but about a proposal that forced knowledge into practice. We propose this amendment to the Constitution with the conviction that the subsequent adoption of implementing regulations on the direct election of mayors, captains and members of representatives of local authorities will lead to a better democracy and the renewal of governance in the Czech Republic. We also promise to emphasize the greater personal responsibility of the mayor, mayor or captain from direct elections. Moreover, there will be a substantial strengthening of citizens' confidence, which will thus restore the necessary feeling and interest that they are involved in governance and are actually making decisions about them themselves, which should significantly increase electoral participation. [[11.30 hours]] Many years ago, after meeting with the mayors, we noticed a problem that linked them regardless of community or political affiliation. In the election, the winning mayors complained about instability and uncertainty that even if they had won the election, they were dependent on the council and in practice could not fulfil their electoral agenda, but they carried out a commission that could call them off at any time from a minute to a minute. Of course, we can also name the condition from another point of view. With this he has experience typically like the ANO movement, that he won even elections in the regions, won many mayors, but then they were pushed away. Moved away because they agreed second, third, fourth in order, or also in the village or in the region, and even though citizens wanted the region to lead the winner, this did not really happen. So from different perspectives, all possible political parties have this experience. According to a study The Transformation of city councils in the European perspective supports the introduction of a direct election of mayors, as well as the captains of some 75 percent of respondents in the Czech Republic. In an survey organised by the Ministry of Interior among the mayors of individual municipalities, 65 percent of the mayors who responded were asked for direct selection. Of course, another example of how changes are needed is the Prague City Hall, and I would say repeatedly the exchange of mayors, when sometimes the mayor becomes a person that people did not vote for as mayor. However, this is not just a speciality of Prague, it is only the most visible. The whole of Europe is already electing the mayors, the captains, the mayors directly, and even the citizens are calling them off directly. This type of election is known from countries such as Italy, Portugal, Greece, Cyprus, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Macedonia or Albania, and in the case of the captains of the European Union. For example, a direct choice is applied in the UK, where citizens decide how to vote in a referendum. Furthermore, in Germany and Austria, a direct choice is used in a number of Länder. In Norway and Hungary there is a direct choice in municipalities of up to 10,000 inhabitants. For the Czech Republic, knowledge is very important, which was obtained after the introduction of a direct election in Slovakia. In some parameters, the Slovak model could be inspirational for the Czech Republic, as it affects both mayors and captains. It is clear from Slovak experience that the function of mayors is an individual position and is, in this sense, under greater control of citizens who can remove it from office. The practice also results in simpler and more flexible administration of the municipality. Similarly, the position of the President of the Autonomous Region, the equivalent of the Governor, can be evaluated. It was the last elections to self-governing regions in Slovakia that showed that the direct choice is also an effective broad civic policy against possible negative social phenomena, as has been shown in the case of the Banskobystrica Region, where Marian Kotleba was not re-elected from the People's Party of Our Slovakia. Also in Poland, there are undoubted positives of the direct election of mayors. This is, above all, a higher level of involvement of citizens in the administration of the municipality and their greater interest in local matters. The assumed position of the mayor carries with it the claims of the mayor's personality. Every candidate for mayor is going to the election with his political agenda, in quotes with his political agenda, which he fulfills after the election under the control of the citizens of the municipality. Following the experience gained so far, the introduction of the direct election of the mayor is assessed positively by both the citizens and the Polish Ministry of the Interior. And once again, I stress that in most European countries, the direct choice works. What can I say in conclusion? There is also a theoretical consensus with many other political parties in the House on the direct election of mayors and captains as a referendum that this is the right solution. Even here, however, the practice with the theory misses, and somehow we have been defending ourselves so far by introducing a direct election of politicians, by which I mean mayors, by the way, the captains. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a historic opportunity to change the reputation of politicians as synonymous with the brakes on these changes from the point of view of some citizens. The law we propose is, of course, the first step that gives direct choice and appeal to the Constitution. Without this change, there are no other implementing laws that will put constitutional change into practice. We believe that the subsequent implementing law should write and submit the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of a general consensus across the political spectrum. Of course, we do not prevent the subsequent implementing law from being prepared by the Ministry in cooperation with the selected parliamentary committee. Since this is a draft constitutional law, there is no time limit for the second reading of the law, so there is no reason for us not to support this law, because there will, of course, be a sufficient time limit to discuss it. If the law goes through your first reading, then there will be enough time in the House to find mutual compromises. I beg you to support our proposal and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u7	I thank Mr Tomio Okamur, Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal, with priority rights in the general debate. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. I'll try to be quick. Our party, the Czech Pirate Party, of course, has long supported direct democracy and also the division of power, i.e. some separation of power in the state and the setting of brakes and counterweights. This applies, of course, to the regional level. However, the law, as proposed, I would say, is not perfect. After all, we have heard that the government has many reservations about him. However, I think it achieves the quality of such a look... Thanks to its briefness that it is possible to let it go into second reading and there properly discuss and correct it, whether it be necessary that there is no clear indication where, when the advice is introduced there, so where they will be taken. It is not clear what the tasks of the individual institutions are. I think that we should make it clear in advance that the mayor or the captain is in charge of some sort of executive and representative function, as they do in the Slovak law. I think it would be appropriate to define how the individual bodies are chosen. This means that maybe the deputies will be elected fairly. It is also very important for us which electoral system is chosen to choose the mayor, so that it is not actually a competition purely for who gets the largest minority, but for there to be some consensual element in that choice. But these are matters for further discussion, for those other at least four or five laws that must be adopted. And that's why I don't think the brave term of validity is quite real either. However, I support the release for second reading for myself, where the law needs to be supported in a proper discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u9	I thank Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur, as Chairman of the Mayors and Independents Club. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u10	Thank you for the floor one more time, in another position today, but I'm not sticking it on my forehead. I am now here as chairman of the Mayors and Independent Club, whose theme is the direct choice of mayors for the long term. It is a subject which, of course, has great support, and that is probably why this proposal landed on the table here. He has great support among citizens that they would not want the mayors to be the result of some negotiation of defeated parties, which then maybe they will choose somebody else who will get into the council by resigning to be in the council at all, and then sending him to the council and then to the mayor's position. And so the choice doesn't match the will of the voters. This is a situation that is really unpleasant and that is happening in the Czech Republic. It's disappointing people from why they even went to the polls when it doesn't match the result of their choices. It's not just in the direct mayor's choice, it's also in the way the elections are set for the communal. This is due to the fact that when you have a significant advantage there and that you do not have the advantage of the majority principle, it works so that it often happens - and now I will be specific. In our village, when the elections took place in 2010, the winning candidate had 19 people with the highest number of preferential votes from 21 members of the candidate, two others got there from other groups. But she had 12 mandates in the D.A. Finals. The small groups are in a way favoured there and then it leads to what is often happening in Czech politics, that there are different B candidates. And whoever you were in the communal, I'm sure you've heard of them when that supposed dominant and possible election winner is going to set up one more candidate to replace what the system takes from him with this other candidate. [[11.40 hours]] And here's the question, if that's not the problem, the electoral system that puts the winners at a disadvantage at the expense of those who break up the other votes. If there isn't the essence, the disappointment and the distortion of the election more than whether the choice is direct or indirect. Mayors and independent long-term direct elections have promoted and promoted, but at the same time there is a need to have a wide discussion about it, because it is not so that you write a few lines in the Constitution, we will vote for the mayors and the captains directly, and this will bring about a change for the better. This is not the case at all, because what is really going to be the difficult and difficult discussion that will decide whether a direct mayor's choice will be successful or not will be successful is what will be in the law which will change the powers of councils, councils, which will allow certain vetoes to be regrouped between the various authorities of the municipality. There he will decide whether or not the direct choice of mayors will be a successful project. Not if you write one line or two lines into the Constitution and you say that you've introduced a direct choice of mayors because that's not really going to happen. And this is the greatest weakness of this proposal that he does not have the law, he is not attached to it, even though it has been drawn up in the past, to the House and put forward, there is no law attached to this proposal, which will regulate it. And it's a very complicated agenda. Because let's face it, how much trouble is it that we don't have a direct choice of mayors? Do we not, by chance, create a greater problem by introducing it across the board with the feeling that we have therefore reached the call, but in the result we will have problematicly managed municipalities? Isn't it a bit of an ill-advised step that we want to change the Constitution on such short notice, more problems in self-government than we can solve? And this is a very serious and serious debate that needs to be addressed. That is why, given the fact that we have passed this law in the last parliamentary term, we have even just presented the fundamental one, the change which has also been passed by government legislation, so it has, I think, been developed in a very specific and detailed manner. He introduced a direct choice of mayors in the smaller municipalities. Where, for example, this is already happening today, and it comes to me, what could be a consensus, because we already have a situation in municipalities where there is no council, so the major and greater powers accumulate in the hands of the mayor. There is a natural way for this mayor to be elected directly. And that, for example, is the path that we could take in this way. I would really warn against going across the board to direct the election of mayors. And even the choice, even the debate, we're having a really wide debate, and I think from the facts of the mayors that are here, it's... it's debatable, because of course, the direct choice has its positives, but it also divides. And if you have two candidates in a small village, in a 200-headed, 300-headed community, and they fight each other for mayor, it may actually make a strong mayor, but half of the people can be defeated and feel like they don't really belong in that village, and they're not answered. It can also cause problems. That's what we have... Often there is trouble in our small villages to find candidates for mayor at all, so someone is on the list, then they are persuaded to take it for the few thousand crowns a month with the responsibility that is loaded on it and which is unlimited in those areas of criminal and property liability. And he's got it just like anybody else, just barely any reward. That's how hard it is to find this person. Isn't it going to happen to us, after a direct election of mayors, that we won't actually have candidates for mayors, because they won't be in favor of being dislodged in that position, and for the responsibility that's enormous, we're going to put ourselves on the line for a campaign that can be really unpleasant? There are a lot of the debates that I think we need to have, and there are a lot of those views that need to be addressed. That is why we have also decided as starosta and independent that, in cooperation with others, surely all of you will be invited, we would like to hold a seminar at the latest during April or early May, where we will invite experts from the countries culturally and legally close, meaning Slovakia, Poland, Germany, Austria. To think about how it works with them, where they have weaknesses, what they have evaluated, and really learn from those who have introduced it, and not to do it superbly by saying: all mayors, all the captains will be elected in the straight elections in the fall, I am talking about the worries, and by that we have introduced a direct choice of mayors and let's applaud how we have made an amazing change. Let's do this really responsibly, because we're talking about 6,250 municipalities here, if it's supposed to be flat. And it can really cause huge problems that this proposal does not solve in any way. A wider debate on the law, where powers will be redistributed, where some balancing, some variations, some brakes will have to be created, so it will be really difficult, but it is well prepared to draw on the experience of those surrounding states which have already historically or recently introduced a direct choice in these places. So I'm telling you in advance that we're definitely going to hold this seminar with foreign participation, and that at this stage, by introducing a direct election of mayors, it's not about the adoption of a amendment to the Constitution, it's about how the law can be agreed, the amendment to the municipal law, the amendment to the regional law. And if that makes a deal, write to the Constitution that mayors and captains are elected directly, that's the least I can do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u11	Thank you, Mr. Jan Farský. We will continue with the factual remarks made by Mr Jan Zahradník and Mr Jan Volný, but before that I would have read the apologies received to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Jakub Michálek and Mr Julius Špičák apologize until the end of the day. Now, therefore, Mr Jan Zahradník, colleague of the Volný Member, is not, so Mr Jan Zahradník, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on this subject on the grounds that I have been a long time, 28 years, a representative of the city of České Budějovice. So I've been in municipal politics for a long time, I've been the governor for two parliamentary periods, so I've been in regional policy since it was actually established with us. I meet very often with the mayors and representatives of cities, towns, municipalities not only in southern Bohemia, and I must say that I do not consider this proposal to be good, not only good in terms of its processing, presentation, for something that would essentially be good, but what could then make amends, as perhaps the Vice-President of the House of Pirates has said, or how the rapporteur may comment on this law. I think, in our environment, it's a basically wrong proposal. I am quite an old man, so I don't have to apply for the applause of some activists in the State Reconstruction or any others who are trying to control the political scene in our country today. I do not even consider the proposal to be a dead end, but I consider it a path that could lead as a result of the collapse of our traditional representative democracy, as it has been built in our country for a long time and as citizens are perceived. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u13	Thank you for keeping time. One more point in fact on the point of fact of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u14	Thank you. I would like to respond to the words of my previous speaker and those who have performed. We, as Democrats in particular, do not join the debate as to whether any paragraph is better or worse. We don't need that law. We are conservative politicians. When you look at the public opinion, the institutions that enjoy the greatest trust of citizens are mayors and municipal councils. And we come up with the idea of changing that. We ask why we should change something that works. But if I were to lead the debate and admit that we would have a directly elected mayor so that this person could implement his program with which he won, he must have the authority of today's city council. And ask yourselves whether you will entrust such a concentration of executive power in that community in one hand. Maybe if there's an angel, it'll work. And if the angel isn't there, which will be the vast majority of cases, it just won't work. [[11.50 hours]] I would like to propose a rejection at first reading. I do not recommend to anyone else to make a new, better proposal, because the underlying reason, and we should debate this, for example, in the Constitutional Commission, is why we want it. How will citizens' lives improve? Do you think the council's trust will be much higher if the council stands against the mayor? And don't talk to us about recantability. The mayor's a person who can be called off every month. Every prosecutor's office can be called off. It happened to a lot of people, too. It's not a theory. These are the politicians who are in the first place, who deal with citizens' problems every day, and they can be dismissed from one day to the next. Yet they have public confidence, and that is considerable, and there is no reason to change this well-functioning system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u15	I thank my colleague Stanjur for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Even factual remarks before we get to the debate: Ivan Adamec, Jaroslav Holík, Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'd react to what fell. I always enjoy it when direct choices are made by those who have no experience in running the village, never made the mayor, never made the governor and tell us how perfect it would be if things were different. I would like to supplement my colleague, our President Zbyněk Stanjura. I drive around that world in Europe, and I know the mayor personally. Of course, personal contact is something other than a questionnaire that only those who wanted to fill it out, and it's taken behind a coin. I don't think we should do that. And I know experience from Poland, we are on Polish border, I know experience from Slovakia. Of course, a direct choice is more challenging for the mayor, let's just say. I don't know if any of you guys ran for senator, I ran twice, I got it over, I know how it works. And I have to say, not only should he have the powers of counsel to make it work a little better, but yet strategic decisions in the community cannot and must not be made by one person. And a strategic decision is made by the council of the municipality, the city. And if you elect a direct mayor and a council who will be politically at the opposite end of the spectrum, what will the mayor make a strategic decision with such a council? Answer your own questions. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jaroslav Holík's point of order now. Mr Michálek will prepare for a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u18	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues. I'm going to answer my previous speakers' performance now. I was in the village myself for three periods. I must say that at the beginning there were only two options, because it was only possible to run for the party, and there were only communists or folklore, so although I had to run for one of them. Always the vast majority, or the absolute majority, were non-partisans who ran there and were elected. The situation has now become a little loose, so we have the mayor who has been proposed by football players. I think that in small towns where everyone knows each other, a personality must always win, not to be labeled as someone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u19	I thank Mr Holík. Mr Michálek now and Mr Čižinský will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my previous speaker, President Stanjuru. He was here talking about how the system works perfectly. Well, I, as a representative of the capital city of Prague, where I sat for three years, cannot confirm that. For about a year there was a situation that the council almost didn't work because the coalition fell apart because of political arguments and the council, which means the executive body of the community, was in a state of clinical death. This really is not an example of the good functioning of the village. And it's one of the things that the mayor's direct election system would solve, because we would just vote for the mayor, and until he's dismissed by the citizens, he'd be doing his job. Of course, we can also talk about some qualified appeal as an impeachment, which is, of course, for discussion. I also disagree with the haunting that by introducing a direct choice of mayors here, there will be some kind of destruction of the system. I really don't. They have it in all the surrounding states of our republic, so I think we can do it in our own country, in the Czech Republic. I think people know one person who is at the head of the community, and today they don't really know a whole series of representatives who make decisions for them. I think the problem is that some swamps who become mayor today because of political agreements would not be elected mayor by the people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Čižinský will now prepare Mrs Jana Černochová. Still factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond, by your means, to Mr Holík. If anyone wants to run in the village, they have two options - either for a political party or to collect 7 percent of the signatures of the community's population. So it's completely nonsense that there's no other way to run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u23	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová - a factual point. And then maybe we'll get back to the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't know how many of us are local politicians here who can say that they've been in municipal politics for about 20 years, as is my case. But I wanted to respond through the Vice-President to my colleague Michálek. How would the mayor or mayor handle this? How would he deal with this if he didn't have an approved budget, if he couldn't sign investment events, he couldn't be conducting selection procedures, couldn't he be deciding on the transfer of funds to various equity companies that are in the capital city of Prague? In what way would you imagine, through the Vice-President, that the situation should be addressed by the mayor or mayor, the situation you mentioned here in the capital of Prague, how would this be done in practice, my colleague? I've really been in communal politics for a long time. I think as mayor, I've been through several elections, I've always won the election. I wouldn't have a problem with a direct choice. I think it would be better and better for me, too. But I can't imagine it in practice. I can't imagine in practice being the deputy executive who decides this without the council. Because, of course, the council has a role to play in that system of democratic parties, democratic movements, various groups that should be involved in municipal governance policy. Indeed, it is impossible for all power to be concentrated in the hands of one person. I wouldn't want that. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And if that council were against me, I'd just be a wreathwriter. [[a refresher warning to exceed the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u25	Thank you for your respect - or your lack of time to make a point of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher, Jakub Michálek and Miroslava Němcová's factual remarks are now still in effect. Now, therefore, Mr Patrik Nacher's factual comment. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to make this point, but I have to respond. I'm a deputy too. I was a colleague of Jakub Michálek, who doesn't listen now. I might wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u27	That is a good thing, because I would like it to be quiet in the House. And those who are discussing a problem other than the amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, let them bring their discussions into the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u28	This is a message to my colleague Michálek through Mr President. I'm not strong for, or strongly against, I'm rather neutral about this. I don't know. I'll make up my mind. However, the example given by a colleague named Michálek is exactly the opposite. In those eight months, the deputies could have called off the council, the mayor and so on. On the contrary, in the case of direct elections, it would be much more confusing. So the example given here by colleague Michálek is exactly against the proposal, so I didn't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jakub Michálek, then Mrs Miroslava Němcová and Mr Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on another point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u30	So I have been approached, I suppose, through Mr President, Mrs Černochová, to explain how this could work. I don't think it would be so different in the division of competences from today's definition of executive powers of the board. When I say this on the example of the capital city of Prague, there are executive powers which the Council of the capital city of Prague has, the competences reserved for the representativeship of the capital city of Prague. These are the very questions of strategic governance that should be decided in the congregation, and there should also be, of course, the control authority of the Prague City Representative. On the other hand, if we appoint a mayor who will be gifted with executive powers within the community, then of course it is necessary for him to have certain reserved powers. Even today, the Council has reserved powers, which in itself is quite special, because it does not know anything about the Constitution's board, so it is strange that the council cannot reserve certain powers of the council. So today the issue of reserved powers of the board raises questions as to whether it is unconstitutional. In this way, the mayor, who would have his executive powers, could declare selection procedures up to a certain limit according to the approved budget. If the budget had not been approved, I am sure, Madame, given your rich practice, you know that it is managed according to the provisional budget. That would be the same thing. That wouldn't change a damn thing. So the system would actually be similar in this division of competences, but, of course, there would have to be some kind of brake system and counterweight so that the council could control the mayor, which is not today, and I know that as a member of the council's supervisory committee. We had about the position and competence of the lampworks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u31	With another point of fact, Mrs Němcová will speak. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, a few comments. Firstly, I believe that this is such a strange situation where we are discussing the draft constitutional law in a situation where the government is in remission, and I believe that the whole theatre here, which was yesterday, i.e. The law on taxation of ecclesiastical restitution, or the present proposal on the direct election of mayors, simply has to do with the negotiation of government, that it is necessary not to offend those potential partners, that there is a need to show them the good will, to let them do something, to buy time, and it will be used to do so in the second or third reading, depending on what coalition will eventually arise. Because yesterday the government gave its opinion on the taxation of church restitutions that they knew it was unconstitutional, but they still let it go. Today he gives a position where he lists a number of mistakes, and almost no positives, or if I listen well, none at all, and yet he plays it. It's nothing more than this alibi attitude and the acquisition of time. Second point. To the petitioners. If the plaintiff Tomio Okamura here says that they had some research, of which 65 percent were questioned, I want to know how many were the total number of those who responded. There are 6,000 municipalities in the Czech Republic plus minutes, so I want to know if 6,000 municipalities have been approached and 20, 50 or 5 990 of them have responded, and we would be having fun at a completely different level. And the third point. After we have voted under various pressures and well-thought-out intentions like the House, and I feel guilty about it, I will never again vote for a direct election of the President under any kind of pressure and unsubstantiated intentions that would really do good to undermine the only well-functioning structure of municipal policy under this pressure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u33	Thank you. With other factual remarks, Members Adamec and Birke are registered. Mr. Adamec has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the government has acted like a government in demise this time, as it was leaving, because the position by giving neutral gave no such thing as a smart hobby, and I think that's correct. I wouldn't blame her. But I wanted to respond to something else. I understand that, here's the reproaches from Prague. Prague is a very specific city both in size and maybe in conditions, but it cannot be taken only by your particular experience here, which I think can also stem from inexperience, from the novelty of working in communal politics. And I know what I'm talking about. I'm going to make a statement, not on a factual note, but on a performance, but I have one thing to say here that should be heard. This bill, constitutional law, is a sort of bingo check. It's just a statement that we're just gonna vote for mayors and mayors here. We're playing with fire, ladies and gentlemen. We're really playing with fire. The current system really has some shortcomings, I will talk about them, but this is a game of fire. If I do not see a specific law concerning the administration of our municipalities, I can never support it. I really don't. And the statistics, please, are as Zbyněk Stanjura spoke of them. The mayors and mayors have the greatest trust of citizens. Not us, here. And that's how we're gonna decide about them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u35	Mr Birke's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to react briefly. You know, I'm listening in detail to the debate that's going on here. There's no way we're going anywhere at all when we're going to keep saying it doesn't work in Prague, it works great in Třebíč, it's broken in Lomnice. We just can't take examples from different cities. We'll be here by morning. It is great in the Náchod, Mr Member through your President, as well as in Trutnov, I think. That's great. However, I would like to say to my previous speakers. You know what the worst part is? Changing something that just works really well. I'm not saying it works perfectly, but it works perfectly. We have control mechanisms, we have control committees. Mr. Chairman Michálek, by your means, you know, the chairman of the Supervisory Committee is so strong that he just negotiates with the mayor or the council, well, don't laugh, that's just the way it is. And I, for one, have my head of the control committee very strong. Very strong, which, despite the fact that my votes weigh quite a lot in the D.A.'s office, but it's really giving me a lot of heat. So, in short, and well, I wouldn't really change something that really works like a great thing, and I wouldn't go into something where we can't see the end of it and what it can't really do to itself in the structure of municipal laws. Because we've canceled the county authorities with a big pompa, we've got regions today, but we've got number one, twos, threes, I'm not gonna tell you guys here, you all know it. But just to disturb and change something that works well, it just seems meaningless to me and, with all due respect for the government, at a time when the government doesn't even have confidence, it doesn't make sense to change it with the amendment to the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u37	With another point of fact, Mr Nacher is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u38	Thank you for the floor. Now I don't know if it was the words of Jakub Michálek or anyone, but the third previous speaker said it worked everywhere, it doesn't work in Prague. I don't know what caused this, but that's not true. So I would ask the basic question, no matter who answers it. What would be the added value of a directly elected mayor for the six-month crisis of coalition rule? What would be the added value of the directly elected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u39	Thank you. There are no further factual comments at the moment, so we are returning to the duly signed up in the general debate. Mr Jelínek is next, Mrs Jarošová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to introduce a direct election of mayors and captains is part of the SPD proposal to increase the political responsibility of politicians to citizens. The goal is mine. also increase citizens' interest in local and regional elections. At present, very often the outcome of the election of the governor or mayor is rather a political trade than a respect for the outcome of the elections. [[12.10 hours]] It cannot be pretended that, in the event of a direct election of mayors and captains, the political culture of the councils' meetings will have to be changed significantly. It will force more political communication. There may indeed be a situation where the mayor or the chieftain will act in a situation where he will seek difficult political support. Yet there is an essential positive factor. Political parties will have to look for real personalities to reach out to voters and gain their support. Our bill stands for the end of political grey mice that release corrupt political secretariats into politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u41	Mrs Němcová will speak with a factual remark. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u42	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, once more for the floor. This is always a consideration of whether a person should react or not. Perhaps it is better not to respond to something, for example, to my colleague's previous contribution. But I would like to make a point here, in order not to make a little bit of a fuss. I mean, a direct mayor's choice will increase citizens' interest in elections. Maybe it'll increase the citizens' interest in the election itself, the election act. The few days when everything will be cooked in that village or city and so-called. There's gonna be blood. But then, given that only one person will be chosen and limited to the current function of the council, which has concentrated a number of people with different views, and thus the participation of people in the post-election period and the running of the municipality or city itself has been much greater, and I believe that is before it is in the event of this direct election. So I'm arguing that citizens will be more interested, so I'm only taking it at the moment that they're going to be more interested in the elections, maybe, but it's definitely not what we want and what we see. As a former member of the council, I wondered why these people didn't come here, for these are the things that concern them, and I wish that the court were full of citizens and interested in it. This step will certainly not lead to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u43	With factual remarks, Members Adamec, Bžoch, Birke, Onderka, Jurečka are enrolled in this order. So I ask Mr Adamec to make his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I have to respond to my colleague's speech from the SPD. You know, it seems very smiling to say here that party secretariats generate some sort of gray mice so that they can be mayors in the municipalities. Who generated you here into this diaper? Well, the party secretariat! Maybe it's different for you. Yes, it's like Andrej Babiš himself. I don't know! But that's what party secretariats do. And, by the way, from experience, I know what it's like to have the Party Secretariat or the Party's top bodies move you to unchosen places. By the way, you may not know, but I ran from ninth place last time. In this election, first of all, because they didn't want to mess with me anymore. But we're elected by the secretariats, they're made by the candidates. No one else. Whereas those mayors, if it's a gray mouse, they won't survive six months there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u45	Mr Bžoch's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u46	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say here on the microphone, what has been said here twice by the SPD speakers, that this is actually a proposal to prevent any movement or party from winning the election from ending up in opposition. And our YES movement has been named here. And what I want to say here is that it happened to us in the Ústí Region. And the SPD movement was one reason why it happened to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u47	Mr Birke will make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u48	Thank you very much. I'd like you to help a colleague of the SPD - I'll look at him if he's looking at me to get it straight. I don't know what you're getting at, the anger you're showing here. Unlike you, I'm the mayor, and I support the trust of the craft I do is 60 percent. You're an MP, and besides, I am, by your means, and your trust is 20. I never stole anything, I'm not a gray mouse! How dare you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u49	Mr Onderka's point of fact follows. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u50	Dear Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, constitutional law, direct choice. I would like to tell my colleagues at the SPD that it will not bring any greater interest to citizens, no way. The greater interest of citizens brings themes, brings communication with citizens, brings controversy to the council. And believe me, as a man who spent 15 years in the City of Brno and eight years as mayor, I really know something about that. If you were at the last council meeting this Tuesday, you would see citizens who wouldn't even fit in the hall. We have been discussing a topic that affects those citizens and is a strong subject. Direct choice of mayor or mayor, you can go ask the former mayor of Bratislava Ftáčnik, I've talked to him a lot about it. What problems he had when he was elected, what problems he had when he didn't have a majority in the council. This isn't about better communication, it's about obstruction. It's that the person who goes into direct elections promises something to the citizens and is not in a state to do so. And then those citizens look at him like he's a liar. That means, you're the person that the community generates, you're actually putting yourself in a position: it's either gonna work out or it's not gonna work out for you. And I think that's wrong. Because of the excess of the fact that somewhere in the republic, in the communal sphere, there is no council working, the constitutional law really should not change. And what he said, through the President, colleague Birke: I do not see grey mice in the post of mayors and mayors in the Czech Republic. I see people who sacrifice a part of their lives to do a piece of good work for their community. And I'll always be grateful for that from my own experience and keep my fingers crossed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u51	With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would like, through Mr President, to respond to my colleague Adamec. I would like to stress that on the pirate side of the candidate, the party secretariats do not identify, but members in the primary elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u53	We continue with the speech of those who are enrolled in the general debate. It is Mrs Jarošová's turn to prepare Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u54	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The mandate obtained in direct elections is the mandate of the strongest, as it was acquired by the carrier as an expression of the direct trust of his fellow citizens. In the case of the election of the captains and mayors, this amendment would be more than desirable. The Supreme Representative of the Region, the municipality or the city resulting from a direct election would not be the result of any possible political buy-in or behind-the-scenes machinations, but would be a sign of will and trust obtained through the direct election of the residents of the locality. The prestige of such a policy and, last but not least, its responsibility would increase considerably. At the same time, we would return this amendment to municipal policy and its perception closer to citizens. This could ultimately also strengthen civic engagement and interest in public matters from the smallest municipalities to the largest regions. If a citizen is convinced that he has the opportunity to directly influence what is happening in his community or region and to participate directly in the choice of his leadership, this will undoubtedly strengthen his participation in such elections. So if we are calling for greater involvement of our citizens in governance, then let us give them the appropriate tools to do so. And one such instrument I consider to be the direct choice of mayors and captains. That is why this proposal has my full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u55	Mr Kupka is registered with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u56	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, just a brief factual point. If it is said that the local government should move closer to the people, the factual indicators say that, unfortunately, unlike our legislative body, the public perceives the self-government much more trustworthy and there really is no shortage in our democratic system. On the contrary, there may be a mood, a problem associated with an unthought-out low-quality law that could bring imbalances into the current functioning system. So let's try to drive more by how the public really responds, how confidence it holds for local authorities, local representatives. It is indeed a great deal greater trust with all the involvement of those citizens than the trust they hold with other forces of state power and public administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u57	Mr Stanjura's point of fact follows. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u58	Thank you for the floor. This is how we have experience with electoral participation, if you want to engage citizens in elections. Compare electoral participation in elections to the Chamber of Deputies and direct elections to the President. Will there be a fundamental difference? You won't. Basically, they're the same numbers. If you want to reach a higher number than the President's direct election or the House of Deputies elections, look at the municipal elections. Highly likely, the smaller the village, the greater the voter turnout. Very common - 70, 75, 80 percent. There are usually few candidates, there are independent candidates, there is almost a direct choice. But for all those who hoist for that direct choice. Okay, then we'll choose the mayor's direct choice. That day we have the winner of the election and the one who is to run the village. What about the other four years? Well, that's for canceling the council. And when somebody cries out here sometimes that the election winner can't form a majority or that he can't act as mayor or mayor, the first victim was the Civil Democratic Party in 2006 - in the third largest city of our republic in Ostrava, we won 37,5 percent of the votes. And two hours after the election, we were told that the ČSSD and the communists had a majority and done. Yet we did not propose a change of law. We were looking for what was wrong with the little coalition potential. Every experienced municipal politician, and there are a lot of them sitting here, knows that municipal elections or regionals have two rounds - elections and coalition negotiations themselves. And it's so good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u59	Mr Volný, who is enrolled in the general debate, will be prepared by Mr Feri. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Each of us had some motivation to enter public life and become politically active. My motivation was based on a sense of powerlessness, which confirmed in me our system of representative democracy and the system of established political parties, which I, as a citizen - the elector began to consider as parties perfectly corrupt and directly mafia. I joined politics because I want change, because I want us to finally start filling our constitution and really finally make the people a real source of all state power. The direct choice of mayors and captains is the next step in the right direction. Let us together give the citizens of this country, after decades of power-free, real power. It is supposed to be the citizens of this country and not their subordinate politicians who are really supposed to own and run this country. I would like to make one more little comment on the vote. My colleague Stanjura rightly remarked here that the smaller the village, the greater the participation. However, in Ostrava, we know that we are hardly able to reach around 30% in municipal elections. And I am absolutely sure that if we use the analogy with the direct election of the President, with whom I very much agree and which, I think, took place in an excellent way and with a perfect result, it would certainly also raise the vote in large municipalities such as my hometown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u61	Mr Stanjura's point of fact follows. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u62	I have heard an important thing in Mr Volný's speech, which I do not agree with at all. We cannot judge the electoral system by the outcome. Anyone who wanted to modify the electoral rules to achieve a result eventually paid for it. We can't think like this and say this is a good system because my candidate won, or this is a bad system because my candidate lost. At least I don't think like that. I'm just saying that if we did what we did in the President's direct election, that is. We would change the way we choose, and in a fundamental way, we would not change the competence and the way public administration operates at that municipal level, so we will achieve what is happening to us in a direct choice - we will divide society. There's a rather sharp election campaign going on not only among the candidates, it's quite natural, but among the supporters of the candidates. But the day after the election, something has to be dealt with. And it's easier for the president that he barely has any authority and he doesn't have any council. Try to tell me what happens after the directly elected mayor wins and doesn't have a majority in the council? How's he gonna get through his program? How do you change his powers so he has a chance to push his program through? And it doesn't matter if I agree with the program or not. It was said by one of the previous speakers that he would be considered someone who didn't keep his promises. But he won't be able to fulfill them because he won't have the authority. Then on the thought that you're saying here - I don't trust her, I don't take that view, but I respect that someone else has an opinion - then let's cancel the council. But that cancels representative democracy, and we are really close to local dictatorships, because there is one person who decides to carry out his program. After all, political equipment includes the ability to acquire the majority, or after winning the elections to form a majority, to convince those who did not vote for it that the administration of the municipality is doing well. It also happens that those who do it this way win the election repeatedly. They win them repeatedly. And there's a lot of successful mayors sitting in these benches who win them over and over again. Then ask them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u63	I'm sorry, Mr President, time has passed. Mr Volný's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Through Mr President to colleague Stanjur. I consider the greatest victory and success of these elections to be a high voter turnout, a high involvement of citizens in those elections. And I personally do not think that we should follow the path of any socialist unity at all costs and at all times. I don't mind at all that our society is breaking into some kind of thought stream. I think, once again, through the President, my colleague, that you should see this as a person who recognises the principles of free thought competition. This society will always be divided in a fundamental way at least according to how the political spectrum is traditionally divided into the right and left sides. Otherwise, about the local dictatorships. I think that perhaps calling the United States of America a country where different local dictatorships rule is unthinkable that it really doesn't work that way. And as far as how it should work. I believe that the directly elected mayor, as well as the directly elected president, will have strong support for the citizens who put him directly in that position. They're gonna keep an eye on the mayor, the mayor, or the president, and if they see that he's not getting anything, they're gonna find out if it's the council, or if it's some kind of advice that's throwing the mayor around, or if it's the mayor they're wrong about. And with the free thought competition, they're gonna count it in the next election. Since we would also like to have direct appeal, people would have had the opportunity to call it off quite quickly when they found out that their mayor really was the one who mixed them up with expensive campaigns. If they find out it's going to be the council in the free political competition, which, on the contrary, hinders the operation of the municipality or the region, they're going to count it in the next election. This is how it works in those countries where direct choices already work for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u65	Mr Baxa is registered with a point of fact, followed by President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u66	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I must say through Mr President that I am actually appalled by what my previous speaker has said. Mr colleague, I have a sincere feeling through the President that you, in fact, do not even know what you are talking about. On the one hand, you are talking about the fact that you are in favour of thought streams in society, but it is the council of municipalities where, if I have now looked at your CV, you have not yet sat, it is the individual currents in the particular civil community that cities and there with their opinions can tell representatives what should change in the community, what should, for example, be built and what should not. At the same time, in your contribution a moment ago, you said that the mayor would decide everything and that citizens would choose such a mayor with full support, but then I ask what kind of system you really want. Do you even want there to be a council in the community? Are you suggesting some completely absurd system of one-person dictatorship in a given city without a council? At the same time, in the third part, you were talking about citizens carefully guarding their council, and I was just waiting for you to say that when they weren't happy, the council would get rid of the town hall. I think that your proposal and the SPD proposal are not only factually wrong, and I do not agree with it as a long-term municipal policy, but that your and your colleagues' speeches show that you simply do not understand and probably do not want to understand the basic principles of representative democracy and that what you are proposing here as a change to the Constitution is in fact a key attack on the pillars on which the Czech democracy is built after 1989! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u67	Thank you. President Stanjura, after which Mr Birke's factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u68	Mr Baxa has already said a lot, but I will also come out of Mr Volný's last speech. We're gonna watch who's throwing sticks at the mayor. But those representatives will also be elected in democratic elections and will have their constituents, and they will, for example, have a different opinion than the mayor! Then why should they abandon their constituents' views and vote with the directly elected mayor? So they don't throw sticks at him? There's no logic in that! And you are unable to answer those key questions as to how such a council would work, how the mayor would push his program through. As long as you admit that the council will remain. If you say you don't have a council, I understand. I don't agree with the model at all, but at least it has elementary logic. But otherwise, let's not talk about free competition, because each representative represents an opinion spectrum in a given city or village and is supposed to defend his program, whether in the majority or in a minority. You're calling for the national front! We choose the mayor, and the duty of all the deputies is not to throw the so-called stick at him. And what if I think something completely different, and so do my constituents? This is the foundation of representative democracy! Among other things, we have it here every day when we defend the interests and opinions of our constituents. If they were the same, it's really a national front. You actually speak like Andrej Babiš: I have won, and the rest of you have a duty to support me. But we don't have that obligation! I think we have a duty to defend the interests of our constituents, and that's right!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u69	Mr Birke and his factual point, after which Mr Kupka's factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to make three comments on the performance of my colleague... volný. I'm sorry, I couldn't remember. Yours through three notes. First remark. I don't know a political craft where it's easiest to take a man out of office than the mayor. I think that's what my colleague Stanjura said through you. Every council, even an extraordinary council, convened by an absolute majority of the mayor's representatives, and they're gonna make a motion to dismiss the mayor - he's gone, the man's gone in an instant! You are irrevocable, by your means, as a Member. I think even the President is irrevocable even though we have a direct choice. With all due respect! Of course, I would not dare suggest such a thing at all. I don't know if you have any idea what it's like in countries where there are direct mayor elections. That's where we need to make a referendum on that. For example, in Poland, a referendum is being made for the same people who elected him to call him off again. I have a number of Polish friends. I don't know one example of the Polák calling off the mayor in a referendum. Not in either case. Second point. I have to say, you know how I listen to you, and the intention is from your workshop, from the SPD workshop, if you're going to perform like this for a while while you were performing, that's absolutely the best way to kill the law at first reading! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u71	I will ask the Members of Parliament, after all, to reduce the level of noise in the Chamber of Deputies, in the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can all hear each other and be able to listen to the arguments that are being raised here. Mr Kupka's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u72	One more comment on the schematic view of Mr Volný's colleague and the experience of personal management of almost three thousand municipalities. It's just not a solo game. The mayor is simply unable to handle the management of the village with a team of people in the council. The idea that by electing one person, we will resolve the operation of municipalities and cities is simply wrong. This really requires the cooperation of several people, and the system of representative democracy makes this possible in this case really better than a model of a direct choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u73	The general debate is continuing. Mr Feri will speak, after which Mrs Hyťhová will speak. In the meantime, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek apologizes for the meeting in the electoral region between 14:30 and 19:00. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I could briefly summarize this by not helping small municipalities to make a direct choice, but limiting bureaucracy and all that is pouring on them. Now, allow me to introduce you and make some comments here for our TOP 09 MP. With the knowledge of certain positives that this proposal can certainly bring, I must say that we will not vote for it. The parties to this proposal and, in general, changes in the electoral system at municipal and regional level raise several fundamental issues. The first question concerns the scope of application. In the case of direct election of mayors, therefore, which municipalities should be covered by the direct election. For all municipalities without distinction, or for so-called. A rural community of up to two thousand inhabitants, or a significantly smaller one, including those in which counsel is not elected? There is already a problematic fact in this connection, namely that in many municipalities with a small population, which is but a vast majority, i.e. 90 per cent, the mayor has a much stronger position under the current conditions than in larger municipalities. For example, because it can exercise the powers of the municipal council in particular circumstances in small municipalities, and this proposal could increase their position even more. I am saying this because, unfortunately, this proposal has the character of a constitutional standard and is no longer regulated in the explanatory memorandum, nor have we been very aware of the way in which competences will be settled. Let me make a few more comments on this. Firstly, the reality of the change in mayor status may not necessarily be automatic in connection with the introduction of a direct election. This fact is also stated by Dr Jüptner, who is also referred to by the SPD in his proposal, which I find quite interesting personally. [[12.40 hours]] The second point relates to the study of Hubert Heinelt and Nikos Hlepas. These two gentlemen analyzed the power of mayors in their study, and based on nine variables, they found that the mayor's greatest power and greatest power in France, 12 points out of 14, and Spain, 11 points out of 14. However, it is to be noted that in these countries, the mayor is elected indirectly. Countries with direct mayors - Portugal or Poland - have scored half the points. Portugal 5 and Poland 6 points. Austria, too, did not place at all. So much for some kind of causality between the direct mayor's choice and strengthening the mayor's mandate. However, if we return to the issue of strengthening the mandate, another negative will arise if this strengthening occurs as declared in the proposal. This is the fact that this strengthening of the mayor's or captain's mandate must logically compensate for the weakening of the powers of other authorities of local authorities, especially representatives, thus bringing us to the second important issue of the parties' definition of powers. Here, with your permission, I would also refer to the Government's published opinion, Press No. 40/1. The SPD's proposal states that the current state of indirect choice is, and I will paraphrase this a little bit, completely unsatisfactory, as it promotes collective irresponsibleness, which would be replaced by the personal responsibility of the mayor or the governor, who should have a higher range of powers taken over from the current council or council. At the same time, it is claimed that the greatest risk lies in the inappropriate distribution of powers and responsibilities. However, even in the proposal, as I have already mentioned, there is no explanation in the explanatory memorandum of how the powers of the various authorities of the municipality or region should be determined and distributed after the new one. This is absolutely crucial, please. Don't let the petitioners be angry with me, but I believe that the division of competences is a de facto critical matter in this matter. The same applies to the responsibility of the mayors and the captains for their activity. The question of responsibility in this proposal is also not taken into account. Frankly, the absence of these crucial points on such a serious issue as the adjustment of electoral procedures in municipalities or regions seems somewhat illogical to me. More illogically, however, is the statement that the petitioners did not deliberately mention these significant issues, with the fact that the parties to the division of competences should have further discussions. This is completely unthinkable in view of the declared date of entry into force of the proposed amendment, because the law should take effect on 1 July 2018, thereby dramatically reducing the scope for possible conduct of full-fledged and factual debates, either with experts or with the general public. I mean, in particular, a discussion on the basis of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution, where it is simply not possible, especially when the SPD has presented its next priority, that is, the Constitutional Act on a general referendum, to discuss this matter in such a short time frame, to extricate and find some consensual solution. In the context of the division of powers, it is also necessary to add one more thing, namely that the risk of the so-called so-called "mayor's elected or the governor" is also increased. Cohabitation - this has already been mentioned here, through the President, by colleague Stanjura - is a condition where the mayor or the captain must deal politically with an unfriendly council. I would like to give a specific example of cohabitation from our Slovak neighbours, where the situation in one village has come so far that the local council was to refuse to identify a new minister and the directly elected mayor had to spend half his working time marrying newlyweds. I believe, and I may not be alone, that these contradictions will certainly not contribute to the positive development of the community. But there was a similar situation in the West, for example in London, where former Mayor Conservative Boris Johnson had to face a council with a relative majority of Labour. This situation caused problems, especially in 2013, when Labour representatives opposed Johnsonův's draft municipal budget and demanded his resignation. Then it was enough for one of the Conservative representatives not to arrive at the meeting, and the Labourers, with the help of two other parties, approved their budget. Another very important set of questions that I find no answer to in the submitted material is the way to choose and dismiss directly elected mayors and captains. In what way would the choice be based on which system - one-wheeled or two-wheeled? How would the mayor's appeal or the captain be treated? Would the council call them back, or would it be a popular vote, a referendum, as my colleague Birke spoke of through the President? To the proposal it is, I fear, too many too many questions at once, and none of them, unfortunately, is being answered through the submitted material. Moreover, the appeal mechanism could also make it possible for us to have more often elections or some votes and disputes with them. A higher rate of elections could soon lead legitimate voters to lose their appetite to constantly go to ballot boxes, thereby logically reducing their relatively low participation. But, of course, in those small villages, the voter activation is bigger. Another point I would like to mention here concerns the costs and financing of the proposed direct election here. In its opinion, the Government points out that the costs of introducing and securing the proposed direct election cannot currently be clearly quantified. If I come out of the proposal, it operates with a model example of the village up to 1,500 inhabitants and a one-wheeled choice, with more costs of CZK 3,000 per municipality. However, there is no link with the previous points. I would have expected that the financial effects would be more divorced following the first point, i.e. the scope criterion, as I have already mentioned. If the proposal were to fall on the larger municipalities, or, say, God forbid, on all, how much resources would have to be allocated, we simply do not know. And personally, I think it's more than less. At the same time, I would like to ask the plaintiffs whether they have dealt with the impact of the previous repetition of the election due to the possible appeal of the mayor or the captain. Last but not least, it is also important to mention and clarify who these costs would be. Let's just say, if these elections happen again, who's gonna pay for it if there's a dispute between the council and the mayor? Would it be a village? I guess the citizens wouldn't be too happy about that. Would he hold the county? Or would the mayor's person pay for it? That's what I would expect in some model of direct responsibility for SPD politicians to promote. But it's hard to say because she didn't say much about it. This topic is very important and I am amazed that it is not specified in the proposal. Last but not least, I would also like to add that the direct choice of mayors or captains does not have clear support even in the professional community, virtually. the relevant associations of legal persons. The opinion of the Association of Local Authorities is that they support the strengthening of the majority elements for the election of representatives and the establishment of a functional model for the direct election of mayors, but they soon complement the need to understand this decision in the context of earlier efforts - the resolution is quite old - the earlier efforts of the various groups to promote the direct election of mayors and the concerns of members about whether this system will work. According to the Vice-President of the Association of Local Authorities of the Czech Republic, the mayors are troubled, and I spoke about this in the introduction, much more other problems such as. Act on conflict of interest - we discussed this here yesterday - GDPR or the issue of budgetary responsibility. The association of cities and municipalities has a similar position on this matter. And I quote from the analysis of the introduction of a direct election of the mayors of the Ministry of the Interior, which apparently the petitioners also based on. The Union of Towns and Municipalities is not in favour of the model of direct election of mayors, nor does it consider it necessary to strengthen the powers of mayors too much. It is also a resolution a little older or a little older. But I'm not sure how much is really going on at the mayor's house, that this should change in some way. [[unintelligible]] I think the mayor, Deputy, is pushing his heel somewhere else, and this is not a priority for them. Finally, I would say that it is nice that we view the introduction of a direct election of mayors, namely the captains, as a whole, as an all-savory force that will solve the problems of the functioning of municipalities or regions. But, unfortunately, with more thought and a look back on what has been said here, this is not the case. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, I propose for Club TOP 09 that this proposal be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u75	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Klaus is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u76	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. You know that I support your positions quite often, especially on national issues, etc. However, this bill is really very unsystemic, because it is based on representative democracy. That is probably clear, and I identify myself subject to the overwhelming majority of the speakers who have spoken here before me. However, let us be clear that the direct election of the President is equally unsystemic. So when you say A that this is nonsystemic, I hope that it will also come to B and we will remove from our legal order this element, which we have introduced under pressure of populist procedure and brought you twice only Miloš Zeman, a public split and also a threat to representative democracy in the Czech Republic. So I wanted to mention this parallel here in a factual note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u77	Thank you. Mrs Hyťhová will now speak in the general debate, Mr Bojko will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, in my opinion, a directly elected politician enjoys much more support for citizens than a functionary nominated by party secretariats or from behind-the-scenes agreements. In the case of such elected mayors or captains, we will be assured that this choice was a direct expression of the will of the citizens who cast their vote in the locality, and so most voters will be identified with it. People who directly choose their mayor or captain will feel that their voice has an influence. We are constantly hearing complaints about small civic engagement. By strengthening the direct elections, we can help the citizen become more involved and interested in the conduct of public affairs. This can ultimately lead to a much greater interest of our citizens and interest in public affairs, ranging from municipalities through the regions to national policy. If we want to bring as broad a layer as possible into political action, we must give them the appropriate tools and knowledge that they have their choice to participate in the political profiling of municipal, regional or national institutions. And there is no doubt that a direct choice can help. Another benefit is the much greater personal responsibility of directly elected representatives. This can also contribute to a much greater transparency of government and self-government, and therefore the proposal will have my support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u79	I note four factual points to the Member's speech here. Mrs Pekarová, President Filip, Mr Kupka, President Stanjura. Please, Mrs Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u80	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I've been watching this debate for a while now, and I can totally see how we're missing each other. Two camps against each other. But here there is no argument at all about the clear reservations that are raised here, including from our side, that is to say, reservations about this measure or this news in our Constitution. Just once is a declaration of why we think it's wrong, and the second is how I don't listen, I can't see around, I think it's going to lift the participation, I think it and that, but it doesn't react at all to what we're blaming for the law change. Please, let's start discussing this in this very form, let's start convincing each other of the arguments that really respond one side to another. I think that one side does, but the other side, the referring side, virtually. Defendant of the proposal, she's not trying to defend herself against our party's clear factual arguments. Therefore, I would ask that we no longer repeat the same arguments here over and over again, why do you think this is okay and it needs to be introduced, because this is just happening over and over again, and we lack a reaction from the defenders to what our reservations are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u81	The following is the factual remark made by President Filip. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u82	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I also have to respond with a factual remark to what has been said here because the arguments have been false. Firstly, the Czech Constitution, the Czech Constitutional System, the political regime of the Czech Republic, parliamentary democracy under Article 5 is based on the free competition of political parties. That's the first moment. Let us not question this, please, because we are all constitutional officials sitting here as Members. I'd hate to. Second, let us not use arguments that are not true. It is not true that fewer people apply to municipal elections. Every four years, we see that the number of candidates is higher, or the increase in interest is here and does not only take place through political parties, for example, by loosening up the possibilities of presenting this in individual petitions or sheets, when candidates are built outside political parties. So, please, that's not an argument. We have to deal with this - and I am not against direct democracy, I advocate a referendum law that I consider to be an element of direct democracy in the long term, but when it comes to the choice of mayors, captains, I am worried, and that is absolutely essential - it would be advantageous for the KSČM, we have some mayors for more than 20 years in the mayor's office, because our candidate lists even go up a lot, because they are respected people in municipalities and cities. That's it. But if the mayor gets elected directly, and then he doesn't have the candidate list - and now it doesn't matter if it's KSČM, ČSSD or ODS or other political parties - and he doesn't have -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u83	Sorry, time's up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u84	I'm sorry. So it's not an argument I could acknowledge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u85	Thank you. Mr Kupka and his point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u86	I was once again upset by the thesis, which you probably exchanged in the SPD benches, namely the mayors as officials elected by party secretariats. I really don't know where you found out that this way mayors would be elected in the vast majority of Czech communities and cities. Moreover, I am convinced that the insult to hundreds of honest mayors people believe is that you are doing a really bear service to what you are calling for, i.e. more public participation. I'd like you to admit for a moment the unexpected fact that people can be happy with their mayors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u87	Mr. Stanjura's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u88	Note, colleagues, that Members, experienced local politicians, are opposed to this bill, who would certainly win the direct election of the mayor. Just look to the right, now look: Martin Kupka, Jana Černochová, Ivan Adamec, Martin Baxa. They would have won it, no doubt. Yet they say they're against it. But when you argue with the election participation, we have two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, and the direct election of the senator, or, is a direct choice, the citizens choose a particular person. [[Nesroz.]] Where is your argument about how those citizens care more when they can choose a particular person? Compare the participation of the elections in the Chamber of Deputies, about 60 percent, and how many people go to the Senate elections. We are not directly elected, yet the highest vote is in elections to the Chamber of Deputies. Isn't that weird about your argument? Well, it's not, because your argument is this - I'm sorry for the paraphrase, you're probably gonna tell us ten more times - I'm gonna take the paper and say, "I think it's gonna bring more voter turnout, and I think it's gonna be better, and that's why I agree with this proposal." Okay, I'm not buying it, but we've been trying to ask questions and arguments here for two hours, and the answer is, "I think it's gonna bring more voter turnout, and I think that's a good thing, and that's why I'm gonna support my proposal." This is normal, we also support our proposals. I certainly don't blame you. What I'm accusing you of is that you're not able to face questions, answer them, or convince us that we're wrong, and you're right. Ask Slovakia or Poland how it works. We who sat on those borders and we have bridesmaid cities know this very well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u89	With a factual remark, Mr Adamec is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond here again to what has already fallen at least on my part. I've been here before on the direct choice of mayors, mayors and captains in the last parliamentary term. That's when the CSVIT party brought it in. At least back then, I'd say they had the courage to write the bill directly, not the constitutional one. [[13.00 hours]] And I repeat again, and it needs to be said. Please, you want to open the Constitution with something that's not discussed. There was simply no serious debate. I see you here, the ones you're hoarding for. It's written down. I guess you have opinions about what's in the paper. So please, let's not do this. Let's not open the Constitution, because the Constitution as the fundamental law of our system is to be opened only in need. Really, if there's no other way. I would still like you to bring in a bill that concerns the direct election of mayors, mayors and captains specifically. As you imagine. And then we have a lot to discuss. But opening the Constitution only because it suits you and that it is your political declaration and an effort to engage the public, that seems very little to me. Please, let us act rationally, and I believe that common sense will prevail among most Members here. That we wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, it's 1:00. I note that two proposals were made during the debate to reject the proposal - by President Stanjura, Mr Feri also submitted such a proposal. I am interrupting this item and the House of Deputies meeting until 14.30 pm, when we will continue with oral interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-004-014.u92	honourable Members, I welcome you to the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
