ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-012-008.u1	8. Proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Vít Rakušan and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest, as amended / House print 33/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 This House press, too, contained a proposal at first reading, or there was a proposal for it to be discussed in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2. In this case too, there are 65 vetoes available, so we cannot proceed in this way and we will discuss it properly. The Government's position on this proposal was delivered as House Press 33/1. I am now asking that the proposal put forward by Mr Věra Kovářová, the appellants' representative. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-012-008.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, we are discussing our House press number 33, which is an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests. It relates to the so-called property returns of public officials, which are more than 30,000. Practice has shown that unreleased mayors, deputy mayors and councillors who, in their free time, sometimes without a fee or for a fee, have to place all their income in the property return, including income that is in the joint property of spouses or partners in companies. The problem also arises with those who are entrepreneurs or employees whose employer has prohibited disclosure of income. Consequences have proved. Several dozens of these public officials have already resigned their duties. More dozens are considering resigning. The local government association had a survey conducted among the mayors, 50 percent of which replied that they were considering not running for office in the next municipal elections, and as the main reason they introduced the conflict of interest law. The threat is that local politicians will not be so good and will leave and will no longer carry out their duties or run for office. And there is even a risk that no candidates will be drawn up in some municipalities. Another complaint in the survey made by the Association of Local Authorities was that the insight into the property returns was anonymous. [[15.50 hours]] On the basis of these facts, we have submitted a draft amendment to the law which says that these property returns could be viewed, but only after the application was submitted, through the login data. However, the Association of Local Authorities and the Union of Towns and Municipalities visited the Prime Minister and explained to him the consequences of the last amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest, and development is somewhat rapid. Therefore, I would like to express myself more than to justify this proposal on what was achieved yesterday in the working group where the compromise took place. Mayors and independents welcome the emergence of a compromise amendment to the amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest, which was reached yesterday by the Working Group, where representatives of individual MPs were present, and we are joining the adoption of this amendment. STAN considers it a good compromise achieved and a positive signal for both current municipal policies and individuals who considered joining municipal policy before the autumn municipal elections. The new compromise proposal aims at Section 13 of the Conflict of Interest Act when it regulates a range of information that will be available to the public to be consulted and those that remain private and accessible only to certain public authorities such as the Financial Administration, the Police and the Intelligence Services. However, this distinction will not concern representatives of statutory cities. Unlike the smaller authorities, there is no fear of the lack of candidates. Mayors and independents want to underline that the aim of the amendment of the conflict of interest law is by no means a reduction in transparency, but the necessary balance of the right to information and the right to privacy, and appreciate that the absurdity of the requirement to publish all family property in cases where municipal politicians often receive remuneration in the order of thousands of crowns for demanding and responsible work, carried out in free time after evenings and weekends, Members' clubs were able to agree quickly. And I thank everyone involved for this helpful and constructive approach. Finally, let me thank you for the cooperation and support of the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Towns and Municipalities, the Association for Rural Reconstruction and also the Voluntary Union of the municipalities of North-Lanskroun, which provided us with proper information from the territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-012-008.u3	Thank you. Also in the case of this House press, Mr Petr Sadovskýý is the rapporteur for first reading, so I am giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-012-008.u4	Thank you. As has been said here, the aim of the proposal is to amend Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on conflict of interest, to form before the amendment made by Act No. 14/2017 Coll., on public access to selected information on public officials and compulsory provision under the Act. It is proposed that the notices referred to in Section 7 of the Law be also in the case of the persons referred to in Section 2 (2) of the Act. 1 has been made available to the public under the same conditions as for the persons referred to in Section 2 (2) (a) and (b) of this Article. 2 - only on the basis of an individualised request and not through free access to the public data network. It is also proposed to unify the scope of the facts that can be made available to everyone, i.e. by narrowing the scope of these facts for public officials pursuant to § 2 para. 1 of the Law. I, as a loose deputy mayor, even though the position of the government, the Ministry of the Interior and justice is disagreeable, would recommend that this law go through the next reading and this issue has been discussed because I know that this is a real problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-012-008.u5	Thank you. Now, in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I am initiating a merged debate.
