ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-007-024.u1	24. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on mercury /German press 172/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Environment Richard Brabec will be mentioned. Mr Vice-President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-007-024.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I didn't even think she'd get to me anymore, but that's what I prefer, and I'll also be more brief in the show, so I'll ideally get to the next point. However, in this case we are talking about a draft law amending laws in relation to the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on mercury. The aim of the bill is to complete the adaptation of the European Parliament's regulation on mercury and to repeal the regulation, which is amended by the amendment of four laws in two ministries, both the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Health. Very briefly, specifically. What is probably the most important part of this is that in the Act on Public Health Insurance, the conditions for payment of the permanent tooth fill are changing, the popularly speaking, the insurance seal, the one with the undistorted amalgam in the basic design. This will cover the form of the amalgam, the use of which is in accordance with the regulation of the European Union, which is precisely that posed by the amalgam. However, the condition of filling is further changed for temporary tooth treatment in children up to the date of age of 15 years, in pregnant and lactating women, so that they will be newly paid only with the use of plastic filling, except for the amalgam self-polymerizing composite and photocomposite. Furthermore, the Waste Act is amended, but since it is a directly applicable regulation, only the details of certain reporting obligations and penalty provisions are regulated in the Waste Act. The chemical law then complements the competence and obligations of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Environment in assessing the notification of the intention to market new products with added mercury or to use new production processes. Finally, the Health Services Act will also change because it was necessary to establish a penalty mechanism for health legislation in order to complete the adaptation process. Well, that's all in a nutshell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-007-024.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mrs Eva Fialová, who is already here. I beg you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-007-024.u4	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister said the basic information that this is indeed a regulation that adapts the resolution of the European Parliament and Council of the European Union regulation 2007/852 on mercury and repealing the European Community regulation No. 1002/2008 into Czech law. In particular, the changes will be reflected in Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and on Amendment and Supplement to Certain Related Acts, Act No.185/2001 Coll., on Waste and on Amendment of Certain Other Acts, Act No. 350/2001 Coll., on chemicals and chemical mixtures and on the amendment of certain laws, and Act No. 372/2001 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision, so-called Health Services Act. In view of the adaptation nature of the amendment law, an exception was granted to the obligation to carry out an assessment of the effects of the regulation on the draft law in question. A little why this law adapts. It is about the properties of mercury and its occurrence, when the elemental mercury is part of highly toxic substances, which damage mainly the nervous and cardiovascular system of living organisms. Mercury is a naturally occurring element in the earth's crust and can be released from it into the environment by natural processes, e.g. volcanic activity. Mercury is capable of remote transmission in the atmosphere and in the aquatic environment, causing environmental contamination at great distances from its own source of pollution. Its properties are also bioaccumulation in living organisms, thereby multiplying its negative effects. Mercury is toxic to pregnant women because it gets through the placental barrier to the fetus and damages its development. For the same reason, it is also dangerous for children, when it is proven to slow down and irreversibly harms the development of their nervous system. Mercury enters the food chain mainly from the aquatic environment through fish and aquatic animals. The source of mercury in environmental components is mainly human activity. The main sources of mercury emissions and its compounds are e.g. burning fossil fuels, crematoriums, mining and processing of gold through amalgamation and use in products such as batteries, measuring instruments, cosmetics and dental amalgams. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 on mercury defines the reasons which lead to the introduction of measures and conditions as regards the use and storage of mercury and mercury mixtures, mercury trading, mercury compounds and mercury mixtures, products and the use of mercury-added products and waste mercury management in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment against emissions and leakage of mercury and mercury compounds caused by human activity. However, the regulation itself could not specify precise specifications for the Member States concerned. The Act on Public Health Insurance, the Waste Act, the Chemical and Chemical Mix Act and the Health Services Act is being adapted. [[18.30 hours]] In the Act on Public Health Insurance, it is carried out because of the prohibition of the use of classical amalgam fillings and the regulation of the use of dotted amalgam in children under 15 years of age and pregnant women in connection with the conditions of remuneration. In the annex to the Act, the conditions for payment of the permanent tooth fill are changed so that they will be replaced only when using the imported amalgam basic 22 versions. This will cover the form of amalgam, the use of which is in accordance with the regulation of the European Union. Furthermore, the condition of payment of the filling for temporary tooth treatment in children under 15 years of age, pregnant and lactating women is changed, so that they will be newly paid only with the use of plastic filling, except where the use of such filling is not possible from the point of view of the health of the insured person. In the context of this amendment, there must also be a change in the decrees establishing the value of the point, the amount of reimbursement of the services covered and the regulatory restrictions for 2019 and the amendment to Decree No. 134/1988 Coll., which issues a list of health performances with point values. However, the form of the draft decree cannot be known at this time, because according to Article 17 of Law No. 48 on public health insurance, the values of points, amounts of reimbursements, services paid and regulatory restrictions shall be fixed for the following calendar year in conciliation. A whole section of mercury waste is inserted in the Waste Act, where the change concerns mercury labelling and the determination of the properties of HP 14 ecotoxicity and provides for penalties for infringement of the Regulation. Furthermore, they regulate the implementing decrees for the Waste Act, which lay down the forms for bodies loading mercury, the conditions for handling mercury and the methods for assessing properties. They submitted proposals to the Ministry of the Environment to amend the implementing rules. (?) This is a modification of Decree 383/2001 Coll., on details of waste management, where it extends Annex No. 30 model form, and Annex No. 31, where the model certificate is amended according to the identification of the mercury disposal facility, and Annex No. 32 which sets out the template of the mercury waste management report. The second decree is Decree No. 294/2005 Coll., on the conditions for the disposal of waste on landfills and their use on the surface of terrain. It defines the temporary and permanent storage of mercury waste and sets out technical requirements for the temporary and permanent maintenance, the storage of mercury waste. And the last decree is Decree No. 94/2016 Coll., on the evaluation of hazardous properties of waste, which specifies and prefers the method of calculation of hazardous properties HP 14 ecotoxicity. Another law that changes is Law No. 350/2011 Coll., on chemicals and chemical mixtures, which does not impose only on environmental and health ministries, but impose new competences on the Ministry of Defence in relation to the assessment and use of mercury-containing substances for state security, where terminology is changed, the extension of the circle of addressees, legal standards to producers, importers, downstream users, distributors and suppliers due to the impossibility of affecting and controlling downstream users who can possibly cause the same contamination of the environment when handling mercury substances. Although the proposed amendment to the Chemical Act is the most optically extensive, it is, as a result, only a regulation of the application process. Exception under Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1907/2006 on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) - so-called REACH - for use in defense of the state. And the last law is on health services, where the amendment concerns the classification of offences for providers by using dental amalgams in the provision of health services in violation of the European Union's regulation on mercury directly and the subsequent penalty for its violation. The main benefit of the proposed law is legislation that will have a positive impact on the defence of the state. The proposal declares the position of the Ministry of Defence as an office representing the Czech Republic in the body of the European Defence Agency for the Coordination of Implementation of the Code of Conduct for the Authorisation of Exceptions and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals for the Protection of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-007-024.u5	Thank you. Have a good evening. So it was the rapporteur, Mrs Eva Fialová. So I am now opening up a general debate and I will see who is applying for it. No one's checking in. So if you don't mind, then I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. There's no interest in final words. Madam? It's not. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. So first of all, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'm going to call a Member of the Gong. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. I wonder if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I don't see such a suggestion. There's an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. Log in again with your voting cards. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Please don't vote yet, Mrs Adámková. I'll erase you. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote now. Whoever agrees, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 33, registered by 137 Members, for 135, versus zero. Result - accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee also proposed to order this proposal to the Health Committee as another committee. Do either of you have a motion for a commandment to the next committee to discuss? I do not see such a proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. So I will repeat once again: who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as the next committee? Initiating vote now. Whoever agrees, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 34, 139 Members signed in for 134, versus zero. The result was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Health Committee as another committee. This is the end of the discussion of this press for the moment. Next up, we have a point here.
