ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u1	6. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws (law on non-medical health professions), as amended /German press 105/ - second reading I see that Mrs. Alena Dernerová, who I am inviting, has already taken the floor at the rapporteur's desk, and I ask her to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u2	Hello, Mr President, gentlemen, Ministers, honourable Members, I come before you at second reading with a proposal for a Senate bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll. This proposal has already been passed through the first reading with your positive consent and has also been discussed by Parliament's Health Committee. It is a simple bill, it concerns, in fact, that traditional Chinese medicine, which was accidentally assigned to the health law, actually left this law and become part of the upcoming law on healers. I think it's a meaningful and very simple and logical law. No one's saying we're canceling traditional Chinese medicine. We say that it is not medicine in the true sense of the word, and therefore it should be out of the law medical. He has support in addition to the Parliament's Health Committee and all deans of medical faculties, scientific advice of medical chambers and actually professional public. [[It's busy in the hall.]] In the first reading I introduced you to, I think, quite in detail with this -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u3	Madame Senator, I will interrupt you and ask my fellow Members in the Chamber to be more calm so that those who do not want to listen to us do not want to attend this meeting leave quietly. I think we're at peace. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u4	I introduced you to this proposal in detail at first reading, so I think that would be enough. I'm gonna step out of the car eventually to add something. Thank you. Please support me at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u5	Thank you, too. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 105/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u6	Thank you. I will read to you the resolution of the Committee on Health as the Committee on Guarantee of the 21st Meeting of 12 July 2018 on the Senate Bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, House press 105. [[Act on non-medical health professions]] After the introductory word and the report by Mrs Mgr Jana Pastuchová and after the debate the Committee on Health recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Senate Bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, House press 105. [[Act on non-medical health professions]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Mr Jiří Mašek and Mrs Dana Balcarová have signed up. Before that, I was given priority rights by President Stanjura. [[Member Stanjura prefers Mrs Pastuch.]] Okay. Please, Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u8	Thank you. I would like to introduce you very briefly to the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. I would like to mention that I have prepared this amendment to the discussed Senate proposal on non-medical health professions, which regulates the conditions of education for several specific professions. I suggest that general nurses -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u9	I will interrupt you and ask the Members to settle in their benches if possible, or to transfer their discussion outside the O.R. into the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u10	Thank you. I propose that general nurses who wish to pursue the profession of a social worker do not have to attend an accredited qualification course by a social worker who focuses on minimum health education. Such a course is suitable for graduates in the laws of listed humanities. General nurses already have such competence, so there is no need for them to attend this course. Furthermore, I propose an adjustment in the field of health care care education, who are newly required to undergo annual practice in hospitals in the form of acute bed care and urgent income. My amendment repeals this condition for drivers of medical rescue vehicles who have been in the rescue service for at least five years in the last seven years before they completed their medical rescue training. [[14.30 hours]] The amendment also regulates the conditions for the education of health psychologists. Furthermore, I propose adjustments in the field of professional competence for the profession of logopeda in health care and specialised competence for the profession of clinical logopeda. Finally, I propose in the amendment to the children's sisters, which have actually come back to us in this new law, and these are some further changes to their education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u11	I, too, thank you for the amendments and will now invite President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u12	Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to the senator, and I agreed with the vast majority, but I can't agree with one sentence, and I have to say it. That didn't come into the law by mistake. No way. By mistake or something unconceived, he can get into the law if he doesn't discuss it. As long as no one notices. Of course, this can happen, in this and in another law. We had a very lively debate on this very subject. We were against it from the start. Our position on this was precisely and at the same time rejected by the Professor Svoboda, so I do not know how on the floor of the Senate, in the House we pointed out, many of us, citizens Democrats were certainly not the only ones who were wrong and did not belong to the law. Well, I'd just rather we didn't live in the fact that it got into the law by mistake. It got there consciously, and I'm looking forward to third reading, and I'm going to bring a hit on who was up for it, and I hope he'll change his mind this time. Because the fact that it's wrong, we've been saying a lot of things a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u13	Thank you, too. And now Mr Mašek has entered into the general debate in writing. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw up here an amendment to the Senate bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., as amended. It is changed as follows: Name of the law. Act amending Act No.95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised competence for the exercise of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended, and Act No.96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical medical professions, on the pursuit of activities related to the provision of health care and on the amendment of certain related laws. The first part, including the title, is inserted after the introductory phrase: Amendment to the Act on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the pursuit of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist. In Section 4 of Act No 95/2004 Coll. the following points (a) and (b) are added: 6 additional sentences: A provider of alcoholic and antitoxicological custody services may also ensure the performance of professional supervision according to the second sentence by means of another health service provider with whom to conclude a written contract in order to ensure the performance of professional surveillance. The physical availability of an anti-alcoholic detention centre by a physician performing professional supervision must be within 20 minutes. And now for the justification. The aim of the proposal is to extend the possibility of ensuring the professional supervision of a doctor with professional competence and with a certificate of completion of the basic strain in the event of the provision of an alcoholic detention service, hereinafter referred to as a detention service, thereby improving the conditions for staffing this health service and its availability. Compared to the current situation, the CC provider will be able to ensure the performance of professional supervision of a physician with professional competence and with a certificate of completion of the basic strain also through another health service provider with whom it will conclude a written contract for this purpose. Thus, a doctor performing professional supervision will no longer have to be in a basic employment relationship with the recipient. The period of 20 minutes for the physical availability of an anti-alcoholic detention centre by a physician performing professional surveillance shall correspond to the specific requirements for the provision of such a detention service. The relevant provision is intended to address, in substance, the problem of overloading the medical emergency service and the urgent income of hospitals. Subsequently, blocking the so much needed capacities of the internal departments of individual hospitals will also prevent. It is this provision that will keep the detention station running and the entire system will not be overloaded. I would like to sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u15	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Balcarová, who is also enrolled in the general debate. Is he here? It's not. Well, he's out of luck. In that case, I will invite Minister Vojtěch, who came forward at the end of the general debate with priority rights. If the Member is able to sign up before the end of the general debate, she still has the opportunity. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable guests, I have already spoken about this proposal in the first reading, and I would like to once again convey the opinion of the Ministry of Health, when we really share the doubts of the petitioners about whether it was appropriate to include the two health calls in the traditional Chinese medicine law on the education of medical health professionals. We really think that it is not completely systemic or linked to other laws, e.g. The Health Services Act, and therefore, as I have repeated in the past, we are currently preparing a new law on the provision of healing services, I do not yet know exactly what it will be called, simply about healing, where we think it is the platform, that is the legal regulation where such methods could be adapted. It's not just traditional Chinese medicine. It is another series of these methods, which are actually somewhere on the border, and we think it is not appropriate to include in this law, but it is precisely in the special regulation, which is currently in internal commentary proceedings at the Ministry of Health, and hopefully it will be ready by the end of the year. We support this proposal with the fact that I would also like to express my support for the amendments, whether Mrs Pastuchová, who I really think is based largely on experience, on practice where the aim is to simplify and improve the application of the law and to adjust the conditions of practice for qualified health professionals. So that's where I think the proposals are really good. I also support the amendment relating to the adaptation of aprobation tests. This is a matter which is very discussed in the professional public, but also, of course, within health service providers, within hospitals, when we know that today, as a probation exam for doctors from third countries is set, it is not entirely optimal. It's repeatedly criticized. The proposal clearly sets out the maximum number of tests or trials a doctor from a third country can perform, so that doctors can not be able to perform the tests here indefinitely, but it is set in principle so that the doctor can apply only four times with the fact that he actually splits the probation exam into two parts, which we think is also very necessary, so that the exam is not unduly demanding so that the doctor from the third country does not actually have to perform four tests in one day, but it was divided between two days. I think that this amendment can make a very significant contribution to the fact that success in the aprobation tests will be better. It is also a requirement from the regions, from hospitals where they simply need doctors from third countries, and I think it will lead to an improvement in the process of aprobation tests. Likewise, the Ministry of Health supports the amendment on detention stations. There we think that the practice shows, and we know it from the regions, the problem that the regions can hardly provide adequate medical workers, doctors in the current model. This means the possibility of negotiating the professional supervision of another health service provider, with whom the detention station will conclude a written contract, with the doctor not having to be in a basic employment relationship with the detention service provider, we think that it is very good and will reduce the burden on medical rescue services and will contribute to the sustainable functioning of so-called seizures. So we think it's positive, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u17	Thank you for your attention, too. Before I invite any more speakers, there's a note. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes to us between 14 and 19.00 for work reasons. And now again, please, Mrs Balcarová, who is registered in writing. I apologise to Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to inform you that the pirát organized a round table on Friday to the amendment to the Act on Non-medical Health Occupations, with a view to establishing education in the field of traditional Chinese medicine. For us, this topic was understandable, but we wanted to hear all our opinions one more time. We invited representatives of the Ministry of Health, Chamber of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně, experts on medical law and professional public. The round table lasted about two hours. Some of you were there, Senators were there. The discussion was lively, but cultivated, so we were actually happy about the debate that came about. And I can say that the pirát are clear on how to take up education in traditional Chinese medicine. But what bothers us is that a draft law on healers has not yet been tabled, because it is everywhere in the debate about him, but we have not yet seen him. Therefore, I propose that this point be interrupted and continued only when the new law is submitted. That's my suggestion. I beg you to suspend this item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u19	Thank you for the suggestion. Are you suggesting we abort now? Okay. So this is going to be a procedural proposal that we're going to vote on. I'll call the co-workers from the lobby. I'll have you all checked out on request. Please sign up again with your voting cards. I think we all know what you're going to vote on... We'll wait for the number of applicants to settle. [[Silence.]] Looks like we've stabilized the number of people present. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the interruption of this item until the proposed bill is submitted by the Ministry. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 103 vote, 126 Members and Members were enrolled, for 29, against 81. The motion was denied. So I will invite another speaker to the general debate, which is Mr Válek. [[Silence.]] I ask you, Mr. Ambassador, to stand down before everyone leaves the O.R. again, so it's quiet. [[Some Members are leaving the O.R.]] Not all of them, the ones who leave, of course. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I'd like to thank the senator for coming back here, for finally figuring this out, and I'd like to point out one thing. There is certainly something called traditional Chinese medicine or Chinese medicine, because even on Wikipedia, and I will not talk about technical literature, you will find the difference between those two terms. However, I would very much appreciate for the purpose of the future law on non-medical professions to be clearly defined by what we in the Czech Republic call traditional Chinese medicine. And in general, we should define what we call a healer, because we use terms and terminology, and I don't really know if we agree on what those terms mean. If I go down to the tabloid press, under the terms of traditional Chinese medicine, there are absurd healing practices, and all of us who are doctors here know that we do not consider it traditional Chinese medicine. And I suppose that's not what colleagues in our ranks consider it to be, either, that none of us here. On the other hand, I believe that the dominant perception of the House is that traditional Chinese medicine is acupuncture, perhaps acupressure. But then this should be defined somewhere that, for the purposes of that particular legislative standard, this traditional Chinese medicine is. This is not in any, at least I haven't come across it, professional literature traditional Chinese medicine clearly defined. I consider that to be the main stumbling block of the problem. I am very pleased that this law will perhaps move towards realization, because it is needed by non-medical professionals, and I support the amendments that have been made here, especially the probation test. Aprobation exam is a very complicated problem and a very complicated subject from my point of view. You have to realize, and apparently most of you know that in the Czech Republic, there are a large number of self-help students who study in English. They've been studying in English for six years. They know English terminology, they study English textbooks, and they do state exams in English. They don't do them in English, but they do them in English. No one's ever tried them for six years in Czech, trying them in English. These students, when they graduate, have knowledge as Czech students, the only difference is that they have completed the course of their studies in English. In order to work in the Czech Republic as doctors, they have to pass a state language exam, but not from professional Czech, that is, medical Czech, if you want, but from the knowledge of the Czech language. From my point of view, there is a fundamental problem, and there is a very similar situation in Hungary. I recently discussed this with the Director of their Cancer Institute and with the Rector of Budapest University. There is a very similar situation in Hungary, when they also have a huge number of English students, even one medical faculty teaches only in English, and these graduates, when they stay, of course, have to do a language exam in Hungarian, but do not do expert examinations. Now, let's look at the probation exam. A student, if he is studying in a country outside the European Union or the Lisbon space, it is necessary to specify and define it more precisely, so he must have nostrification, which is basically a process that is being carried out by the medical faculties. And the medical faculty is assessing the conformity between the study he graduated from and he would have graduated from our home. Individual professors, individual academics at the medical school are involved in nostrification, so if our medical school in Brno is nostrification, then I always get how the student at their school graduated from the subject of radiology and imaging methods, whether he had the same grant hours, whether the subject had the same content, whether the subject ended up being tested, and whether there was a match. I'm not judging his knowledge, of course, but the match. And if he gets that nostrification student, the medical faculty says: This student graduated from a medical faculty that has all parameters comparable to medical faculties in the Czech Republic. They did not study in Czech language. And now this student is supposed to do an aprobation exam. But the aprobation exam is not a test of knowledge of Czech, but it is a test of professional knowledge of Czech. All of you who studied at universities know that terminology in different languages is different. Most of us, or all of us who have studied medical schools, know very well the medical terminology in English, we know it very well in Latin, but in another language we know it problematicly. Even if we know well Italian or German, we do not know the medical terminology in this language. We would have known it if we had actually studied the textbooks in this language. And this is the problem of an aprobation test, and so I thank you that this point is open, that we will discuss it and that we will have some room here to adjust this in a reasonable way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u21	I, too, thank you, and now, please, Mrs Adámková, who is enrolled in a proper debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to my predecessor, my performance will be brief, because half of what I wanted to say has already been said, so I will not repeat myself. I also want to thank Senator Dernerová very much for opening up this problem, because we can talk more or less about what we want here in theory, we all have an opinion and he is the same in the professional public, but our main concern must be our patient. And we need to realize - I will now touch the healing efforts - first of all, we don't really have the definition of a healer, we don't know who she is, she's a bit of a spicemaker or someone else, but she still has to be there to remember the health of our citizens, because it's a priority. Notabene then cannot have any ambitions at all to pay for these unverified methods from public health insurance. That's absolutely impossible. Western medicine has, let's say, relatively good achievements, whether it is the extension of human life, or relatively good survival in heavy patients due to the fact that it has actually worked very systematically on evidence-based medicine, i.e. It's like she's eliminating the blind roads, which, of course, in any other method, we can't guarantee. Another thing that is of course very important is that our patients really have quality doctors, i.e. paramedics, nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, anyone, and therefore it is not possible to let people who are completely out of control and whose education I would have great doubts about. As for the definition of traditional Chinese medicine, I think it was very unfortunate to call it that at all, but of course it has already happened. Because it needs to be realized that we are running for something that came about as more or less the only option after almost no doctors have remained after the cultural revolution in China. Of course, every nation wants to treat its own people somehow and does what it can because it has no other options. So I'd like us to choose the best out of the world and not the best out of it. As far as the aprobation exams are concerned, I would just like to assure all those who are not from medicine that we are actually very intensive about it, and indeed, as Professor Válek has already said, that examining whether the candidate has the same knowledge does not mean that he will come and have the same name for the study. We're really looking into whether he had the same objects, whether he ended them with a proper graduate, i.e. It's either a test or something like that. So it doesn't mean that he would automatically get the nostrification if he came to have the same degree, i.e. I think he might be able to treat our patients. As for the terms, it is true that sometimes they are smiles, but the world has moved on, and the popularity of doctors in America, who speak weird American, English, is almost not even the language they speak in America, and they have a Slavic accent - that's nice, but frankly, it's more of a novel. In this practice, it means that the doctor has to deal with the patient because otherwise there are very serious complications. So even the terminology must be given there. So believe me, we're going to be very serious about this, and we're kind of getting a little bit more clear on that from the expert side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u23	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Kaňkovský, who is also duly registered in writing for the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u24	Good afternoon. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, just a brief position of the KDU-ČSL club on this Senate amendment. I would like to follow up with my fellow President of the ODS Petr - ne Petr, but Zbyněk Stanjura. The KDU-ČSL Club, both here in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate, also had a continuous view of whether traditional Chinese medicine belongs in its education to the Act on Non-medical Health Occupations. We did not vote for the amendment, which did not just come out of the blue, it was here and it was voted on here in the last parliamentary term, and so did our senators during the hearing, relatively turbulent, within the Senate. That basically shows our position, which is clear. We support today's Senate amendment and will support it at the final reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u25	I, too, thank you, and please Mrs Levová, who has made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the members of the ANO movement when I heard the post here about communication with doctors, language knowledge and knowledge in general, why they supported the Ukraine project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u27	Thank you. And now I have a general debate from Mr Kaňkovský's seat, but he has already spoken, so I assume he is downloading it. And now, please, Mr Liberty. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u28	Mr President, colleagues, allow me, too, to thank the Senator for bringing this bill here. Let me thank all those who voted against delaying this issue to interrupt. You know, it's very complicated. Traditional Chinese medicine got on the show in China again after years, when Mao Tung didn't even have a doctor for those millions of people. So they opened it up, and they just pulled it out of the drawer as a treatment that had nothing to do with medicine. He doesn't have it until today. If it is there, as the law so far gives it, unfortunately people who are in a difficult health situation, who are at risk of life, will choose this medicine as a variant of their treatment. And I can assure you that in my experience, I know it won't heal them. That is why we need to complete this law very quickly, and then define what is healing separately. This is a very complex issue, and it will absolutely certainly require a long and long discussion of what to do with healing, what the conditions for healing will be, as we will require qualifications. Take the fact that anybody can do Chinese medicine today, and we don't have to know what they know about it, maybe all they have to do is speak Chinese, and they don't talk to their patient. It's really a very serious matter. I'm saying this from this counter mainly so that we can finish the law quickly, because every day can cause someone a health problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u29	I thank you, and now please, with the right of priority, the plaintiff, Senator Dernerová, and then with the right of priority, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u30	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I just want to say that Mr Stanjura was right. It wasn't a mistake. It wasn't originally a government proposal for traditional Chinese medicine. It was a parliamentary proposal. The truth is, I've actually been reporting the entire complex of the bill that came in, and it went through one voice in the Senate, and it was all so confusing, and it was really quite stormy, because ex-minister Ludvík said that if the law doesn't vote this way, that it would have a problem with nurses, that it simply needed to adjust the education of nurses. But unfortunately, other amendments, which then were already part of the law, did not get to the vote, where it was prepared to vote on individual points separately. That's why we had to go the complicated way, the Senate bill. From my point of view, as a doctor, it's nonsense. Traditional Chinese medicine is basically not on scientific grounds. There's only one medicine. I'm not saying "break it down," I'm saying "let's give her some boundaries to be in a law other than the law of health." I would therefore like to thank all those who will vote precisely for this proposal. Thank you very much. And, of course, I will then support the proposals in the Senate, which will also come with this original one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u31	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the Minister, then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would only like to add to the Act on Healing, what the Pirates Member said here, we are really preparing the law now, but it is not yet finished, but it should be pointed out that we will not really restrict the freedom of choice of patients in this law in order to choose a treatment method. That's not really his goal. And I don't think it's right either. In this Senate proposal, we say that traditional Chinese medicine is a different area from that of Record-Based Medicine, the classic medicine of our Western cut. But that doesn't mean that under the Healing Act, we're going to say that something is allowed and something is forbidden. The law will only regulate certain procedural constraints to protect a patient who is free to choose any treatment method. It doesn't matter if it's traditional Chinese medicine or if it's viral treatment. That depends on the particular person. We don't want to tell him what to choose, because of course we can't. There are a number of methods, and we're not going to specify them anywhere. So that doesn't really mean that by law, we would be interfering with traditional Chinese medicine that no longer exists. People will still be able to use it. In the Healing Act, it will only be regulated that those people who apply these different methods must be registered somewhere, we must have an overview of who applies them, they must have at least some basic documentation on what they are doing with the patient, because it is not today that, if the patient is damaged, it should not be in evidence emergency if it is necessary to sue the person, because today it actually works so that there are no rules for this. And that's what we think needs to be dealt with. But there won't be a question of whether any method is allowed or forbidden. That's what we leave to the free choice of the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u33	Thank you. Vice-President Hanzel will vote with replacement card number 10, if I have seen correctly. And now, please, the rapporteur, Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u34	I would just briefly join in thanking all those who voted against rejection, because it is good to put the amendments on a bowl, because we do not have a non-medical profession, we do not have a doctor, and there are many amendments that will simplify education and simplify the work of those non-medical professionals, and so put Chinese medicine on a bowl of scales, or wait for it, and these people would all wait for our changes for God knows how long. So thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Martínek came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u36	Hello. Thank you. I just want to correct Mrs Pastuchová briefly, because there was no vote on the motion to dismiss. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u37	Thank you. By this we have exhausted both factual remarks and applications for the general debate. No one else is reporting to me from this point of view, so I am done with the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. There's no interest in final words. In that case, I am opening up a debate in detail in which I have Mrs Pastuchová signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u38	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment under number 1145.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u39	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for Amendment 1301.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u41	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u42	Hello, Mr President. I would like to sign up for an amendment in the system under number 1299. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-001-006.u43	Thank you, too. This also concludes the detailed debate. No one from the O.R.'s checking in. I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking the plaintiff and the rapporteur if they're interested in final words. It's not like that. In that case, I'm done with second reading. Thank you and I'll see you at the third reading. Let's move on to point number
