ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u1	43. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda At the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 30 November last year, we are Resolution No. 34 have interrupted the discussion of this point and have adjourned it until it was discussed by the mandate and the Immune Committee. [[There's still restlessness and noise in the hall!]] The mandate and immunity committee has discussed the request for consent and today you have been served on the bench by its resolution No. 43 of 23 January this year. I ask the President of the mandate and immunity committee of Mr Stanislav Grospič to report to us on the discussion of a request from the Municipal Court in Prague for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. As rapporteur, Mr Gazdík has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to introduce you to the discussion of a request from the Municipal Court in Prague for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, who was served on 24 November 2017 by the President of the Chamber of Deputies and on the same day was handed over to the delegation and immunity committee in order to determine whether the conditions for criminal prosecution of the aforementioned Member are laid down. The request of the Municipal Court in Prague contains, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the definition of the acts involved and their anticipated legal qualifications. At the same time as this request was received, the still unrighteous judgment of the Municipal Court in Prague of 8 September 2016. The Committee began the discussion of the request at the third meeting held on 30 November 2017 at which Mr Petr Gazdík was designated as rapporteur for the Committee and Resolution No. 18 the hearing was suspended because of the request for a complete criminal file and the invitation of other persons to the committee meeting. The criminal file was served on the committee and the members had the opportunity to consult it on the premises of the secretariat of the mandate and immunity committee. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the request of the Municipal Court in Prague was placed on the agenda of the second meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as item No. 32, Resolution No. 34 then the House interrupted the discussion of this point until the matter was discussed by the mandate and immune committee. At the 6th meeting held on 9 January 2018, the mandate and immunity committee set out the procedure for examining the application and suspended the hearing on the case by Resolution No. 34. Yesterday, 23 January 2018, the committee then heard the comments of the State Attorney at the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague Mgr Tomáš Lejnar, as a representative of the prosecution and of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, as well as his legal representative, who answered the questions asked by the members of the committee. Following the presentation of the MP's report by Petr Gazdík and after the debate, the Committee concluded the discussion of the request of the Municipal Court in Prague and unanimously adopted Resolution No. 43, which has been distributed to you as a basis on the bench. The first parliamentary mandate of Bohuslav Svoboda came from the elections held on 25 and 26 October 2013 and the first request of the Police Authority to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies on 28 November 2013. This request was decided by the Chamber of Deputies on 5 February 2014 and agreed to the extradition of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda for criminal prosecution. The mandate of a Member of the 8th parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was acquired by a Member of Bohuslav Svoboda in elections held on 20 and 21 October 2017. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall!]] The criminal prosecution has been suspended for the legal obstacle enshrined in Article 27 (1) of the Treaty. 4 The Constitution of the Czech Republic and for this reason the above mentioned request was made by the Municipal Court in Prague, which we are discussing today. The mandate and immune committee of the Chamber of Deputies then by its resolution No. 44 has delivered an opinion on the above application and I will inform you thereof.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u3	Mr President, I will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace! It's so loud in here. Even though I'm wearing a wire on the speaker, I can't hear the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. If you're discussing anything other than this press, please be in the foyer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u4	I'll just be brief. The mandate and the Immune Committee on Resolution No. 43, which was distributed to you on the bench, adopted its opinion, Committee Opinion No 43. 44. With this opinion of the mandate and immunity committee, Mr. Petr Gazdík will inform you about this request from the Municipal Court in Prague. That is all on my part, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u5	I thank Mr President of the mandate and immunity committee, Mr Stanislav Grospič, and I will ask the rapporteur of Mr Petr Gazdík's committee to present a news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let me introduce you to the news report on the request for consent to the prosecution of Bohuslav Svoboda. The Municipal Court in Prague asked the Chamber of Deputies on 23 November 2017 for the extradition of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda to prosecute criminal offences in competition rules pursuant to § 248 para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) and (b) Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, for the crime of breach of the obligation in the management of foreign property pursuant to § 220 para. 1 and 3 of the Criminal Code. Activities under the April 2012 period should have been undertaken as Mayor of the capital city of Prague by voting as a member of the Council of the capital city of Prague in favour of the offer of Haguess, a. s., to provide support for the software of the card centre operating the Opencard card for CZK 73 million 763 thousand 747 for a period of two years, while according to the indictment, the board members knew that the price offered was significantly above the planned value of the public contract, leaving behind a qualified analysis of the situation of alternatives and thereby violating the rules of the procurement procedure laid down by Law No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement. The main trial took place at the Municipal Court in Prague between September 2015 and September 2016. The court has passed an unrighteous judgment by which he found Bohuslav Svoboda guilty of what the prosecution blamed him for and imposed a suspended sentence of 2.5 years in prison. Bohuslav Svoboda appealed the verdict. I would remind you that this is a repeated extradition request. The Chamber of Deputies, Bohuslav Svoboda, removed immunity from this case in 2014, in the meantime the case came to trial, to an illegitimate judgment. And now, at the stage of the appeal procedure, further negotiations are not possible without the re-approval of the Chamber of Deputies. Prosecutor of the Municipal Prosecutor's Office Mgr Tomáš Lejnar informed the mandate and immune committee that it is appropriate for the process to be completed at this stage, that this is also appropriate for Members themselves, in the opinion of the prosecutor, and asked the mandate and immune committee to recommend extradition. According to the state's attorney, the councilmen did not make enough use of their time, and therefore they got into a time emergency, even though they were in a situation that they had not largely caused themselves. The prosecutor did not know the Opencard 1 file and could therefore not address the responsibility of the previous political representation that caused the situation. He was unable to comment on another case. In addition, he informed that the notification of the September 2016 judgment did not take place until July 2017. According to him, the case is not politically motivated. Dr. Bohuslav Svoboda told the mandate and immune committee that it was in favour of voting in some way in the Council of the capital city of Prague, he believes that the vote was in line with the information they had at the time, they also had all the opinions, and there was also a lawyer present at the meeting who testified before the vote that the decision had been legally conflicted. The decision ensured that public transport did not collapse and that they did not throw a billion out the window. Mr. Bohuslav Svoboda's attorney, doktor Petr Toman, told the mandate and immunity committee that the entire criminal case must be viewed in a broader context during the time of the attempt to criminalise municipal politicians. He stressed the negative role of prosecutor Dagmar Máchová, summed up the long prosecution process so far, although the Member was based on the legal assessment of two law firms and the recommendations of the lawyer present. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda is accused of committing a deliberate crime that someone else could have carried out the contract by CZK 60 million cheaper, but none other than the company in question could have carried out the contract due to previous contracts and licences. Our decision is political as a mandate and immune committee, informed the defense attorney, and we are sending a message to the public according to him. To sum up, the case has been going on for the sixth year, and I can say that the Chamber of Deputies has certainly not caused delays. In the meantime, the case reached the judgment of the first instance, the act falls within the turn of March and April 2012, i.e. until Bohuslav Svoboda was not a Member. Let me also introduce you to the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee on this matter: "Mandat and Immune Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening words of Mr Stanislav Grospič's committee chair, after hearing the observations of the State Attorney at the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague, Mgr Tomáš Lejnar, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and his legal representative, after Petr Gazdík's report and after the debate does not recommend The Chamber of Deputies agree to the criminal prosecution of a Member of Dr Bohuslav Svoboda, born February 8, 1944." On that point, I would add that the mandate and immune committee did not recommend the release of Professor Svoboda, it is a matter of every Member's conscience. Everyone decides whether to issue or not, on the basis of their conscience, but I would like to point out that part of the discussion on the mandate and immunity committee was also that, no matter what we decide today, our responsibility as the Chamber of Deputies certainly does not end. Our task as a parliament is to ensure that thousands of others who make public decisions in self-government every day, like the one made by Professor Svoboda, are not criminalized on the basis of nonsensical opinions or nonsensical accusations to prosecute. The mandate and immunity committee has therefore also asked President Stanislav Grospič to ask the President of the Constitutional Committee or the Minister of Justice to deal with this matter in order to avoid similar excesses in the case of thousands of other municipal politicians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u7	Thank you, the rapporteur will monitor the whole debate from the table. Before I begin it, I will read Mr Tomáš Kohoutek's apology from 15-31 to 20.00 for a doctor's visit. I'm opening the debate. The first is Mr Marek Výborný. I have a factual remark here that can only respond to the President's speech and the rapporteur's presentation, it's a little complicated because I don't know... Sign up, my colleague, either on a factual point after the speech in the debate is open or properly. So now Mr Marek Výborný in an open debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to give you the reasons which led me to change my original position as a member of the mandate and immune committee. I confess that after I studied - and because both of the two files, the previous one for the introduction, this also applies to the following point No. 39 of my colleague Růžička, to be honest, are very similar to those cases in many ways, even though they are at a different stage at the moment. I will speak for both of you, and I will not report to the debate on paragraph 39. After studying both the files, as is the case with the members of the committee, I felt that it would be advisable to recommend to the House both Members to issue and let independent courts decide. After the four-hour meeting of our committee and the things that I do not want to repeat, as the rapporteur said in his report a short time ago, I came to the contrary and voted against the recommendation. And I'll give you some of the reasons that led me to do it. I want to make it clear that I would not like to launch a heated debate here that would start to compare things incomparable, namely the case of my fellow Members Babiš and Faltýnek from last week, with these cases. Indeed, they are diametrically different because these are acts that took place in the political work of both colleagues. These are not acts that took place in the context of private business activities. I would not really like to start discussing on this level here or be attacked for some hypocrisy. I really do not think that from our side and ultimately from other fellow Members of the ANO movement it would be a hypocritical position. [[15.50 hours]] The whole case of both Dr. Svoboda and Mr. Mayor Růžička is based on criminal prosecution for the actions they have taken in the collective decision - I repeat, a collective decision - in the exercise of their mandate as representatives. Yes, it is true that these were acts that took place outside the mandate of the Member, but that was the exercise of their political mandate within the representatives. And as the mandate and immune committee was going on yesterday, both of these cases really seem to me to be an unacceptable criminalization of municipal politicians, where it may be some outcome, and now I may be somewhat incorrect, the result of some anti-corruption hysteria that has been set up here in recent years and when often, as it is necessary in the case of fellow Růžička, if one of the representatives does not like something, he will simply submit a criminal report that is clearly completely meaningless in itself. But the authorities involved in criminal proceedings, and I am glad that this has also been said by the rapporteur, that it is necessary to address the question of how seriously these persons are to be criminalised for decisions within the collective bodies of the authorities, with regard to the local policies, the tens, hundreds of mayors and representatives. Only one specific number: 85 percent of the case has been suspended since 2013 from 350 criminally prosecuted representatives. So I think this particular number also shows something. I would like to conclude by saying that if the House decides to resort to the recommendation of the mandate and immunity committee, I will in no way take this as a sign that anything is impunity or that we want to free someone from the decision-making of independent courts. Immunity is not for life, it ends with the mandate. But at the same time, I would consider this decision to be an important signal for us to start addressing the issue of criminalisation of those who act as mayors, representatives, because this could also jeopardise the future functioning of the authorities. I think that this is a signal that can help, and it is not an attempt to make a difference between those others who are in these cases or are facing prosecution today, and fellow Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u9	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. Mr Feranc's point of fact is now the priority right of Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reaction to the speech of a colleague who was before me. I'm also a member of the mandate and immunity committee. He said he didn't want to compare the cases a week ago and this week. I'll say two things for comparison. The first thing is - and I will not vote in favour of Mr Liberty's extradition because he has decided in some way. But the difference is, he made a decision. Last week, we were discussing a case where we published, those gentlemen, not that they didn't sign anything, they didn't decide anything, they didn't have a chance to influence it. That's the first difference. And the second difference is that today, I hope, we're going to make a decision in a matter of fact. Last week was just a political decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights Mr. Chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Mr. Jakub Michálek will be ready. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, Mr President. I'm getting pretty nauseous here today about the debate that was here last week. However, I'm sure I can manage and overcome it somehow. First of all, I would like to apologize to my colleague Růžička, who is here today because he is ill. I spoke to him this morning, sent me some of my opinions, which I would like to read here for the non-members of the mandate and immunity committee, so that they could get into the picture of what was really going on in his particular case. He's got a fever of over 38, so please excuse his absence. And at the same time... Excuse me? [[Mr Válková warns the speaker that another point is being discussed. The President is begging for peace.]] Oh, now we're with Mr. Svoboda Professor, okay. Well, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm here from the meeting. I'm sorry. But as far as Mr. Docent Svoboda is concerned, I said last time in my speech that I would vote against his extradition with the knowledge of the things I have of the members of the mandate committee, and that is the position of our entire club. And as far as my colleague Růžička is concerned, then I will ask you once more to perform. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u13	I thank Mr Faltýnek. Mr. Jakub Michálek now. Mrs Helena Válková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u14	Thank you for the floor. It said here that Opencard 2 is the result of some sort of anti-corruption hysteria. Well, I think Opencard 2 is primarily the result of the need to find some culprit, some scapegoat behind the Opencard case. In the Opencard case, first of all, they were officials who were convicted, even if one of them was undoubtedly involved, but those people who had committed the whole thing, who had approved it, agreed, prepared it. And I think that Mayor Pavel Bém and his deputy Petr Hulinský, who also convinced the Prague Council that this is an amazingly advantageous project, which, if they approve, will bring Prague a billion crowns, that it will be very profitable and everyone will buy it. So, of course, that turned out to be total nonsense. And it was based on the fact that they actually wanted to enslave the Pražans so that everyone would pay 500 a year for having a card in their pocket at all. Not for a coupon. Just for having the card and for bringing him amazing benefits. So I think it's just an attempt to find a scapegoat, and we saw it on the mandate and immune committee, which is a huge mistake of the D.A.'s, that the prosecutor at all about the Opencard 1 case, i.e. about how Opencard was created, how the conditions were set, from which the Council tried to free itself, so he didn't really know anything about it. He got the case one month in advance, and then he represented the prosecution in court. I think this is one big historical mistake on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. This has already been discussed when there was an investigation committee for Opencard, where, in fact, a criminal complaint was filed against Mrs Máchová, who was also involved as a prosecutor in the case of Mr Svoboda. I think it's a really big mistake, and maybe it happened that Mr. Svoboda and the other councilmen screwed up something. Maybe now that we're looking at it backwards, there's plenty of time, of course, and that thing's settled. Those paper coupons were finally printed out. I was there when we pushed it to print paper coupons. And that's how it's assessed backwards very easily. But compared to what the original players of the Opencard case should be responsible for, it seems totally inappropriate to me that this prosecution is taking place. So I understand the look of the unreleased. So I myself will vote in favour of the issue, because I think the court should decide. And that there's a certain suspicion. Even though he is much, much, incomparably smaller than what former Mayor Bém and his deputy should be responsible for. I think that if the D.A. seriously examined what the judge of the first Sotolář said in his judgment, the fact that he wondered that the defendants were not really sitting on the bench with the political representation that approved it and which initiated and enforced the project, because the officials did not do so themselves, they did so on the basis of that, which is also mapped out in the judgment that they were given an assignment from the political representation. That is what I think is a fundamental debt, and I considered it a fundamental decency for this statement to be made here in connection with the request for the extradition of Mr Svoboda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u15	I thank Mr Jakub Michálek. Before I give the floor to Mrs Válková Válkova, Mr Jan Čižinský's apology came from 16 o'clock until the end of the meeting day. So now, Mrs Helena Válková with her speeches, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I have a moral duty rather than a legal obligation to speak here and actually return to my speech, which I have shortened and which, although one of the previous speakers has been brought to the attention of the fact that there are no contexts, for me there are those contexts, namely when we were talking about the extradition of Mr Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek. It is an institute of immunity and its perception, which is often shifted in the public context, that it is something undesirable, that it is a departure from the principle of equality, as we all know, we have in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - equality of all people - immediately enshrined in the first article. Not only do I think so, but also the interpretation of the Constitution, as you will find it in various comments and judgments of the Constitutional Court, but it is based on the fact that immunity protects the institution itself. And I see, among other things, the sense of immunity, as I indicated here last time, in a certain equilibrium of the unequal position of the power ratios between legislative power and executive power. In this case, which we are talking about right now, it is particularly clear what deviation can occur, and we can probably all see where a spike can lead to that one side, namely, in this case, I am thinking of the state's attorneys and police, if, therefore, there is criminal prosecution of representatives in connection with their vote, when they, knowing the risk of possible criminal penalties, also ensure that they have expert opinions processed, and even that, during their negotiations on this matter, a lawyer is present, who gives them expert advice. Yet the state's authority here represented by the prosecutors, and in this particular case even by the court, even if the decision is not yet valid, will eventually accept the verdict and identify them as defendants, then wrongfully convicted. I think it is very meaningful to point out at this point that the statistics that have been presented to us in the course of the discussion of this particular case by the advocate of an illegitimately convicted Mr Svoboda, Dr Toman for the Union of Advocates I know, and it is an institution that does not operate with data that would not be verified and verified, and I have checked them until today's meeting, are more than eloquent. The charge was made in the Opencard case in 2013-2014, which represents actually the largest concentrated attention to this type of criminal matter by the state prosecutor, so the defendants were altogether 81 and 2014. 82. In 2017, they shrunk to just five. Between 1995 and 2017, a total of 93 criminal prosecutions against 357 representatives were conducted. That's what I'm talking about in general. Since the case of Mr Svoboda and other defendants and convicts at Opencard, I have become more general. Nineteen. 1. 2018 was finalized only 67 criminal proceedings against 181 representatives. Out of a total of 67 criminal proceedings finalized, 23 criminal proceedings were concluded by a statement of the defendant's guilt, 44 were terminated by suspension, annulment of the order, exoneration of the prosecution, etc. This means that 65,6 %, i.e. two thirds of the criminal proceedings completed, have been carried out wrongfully. Ninety-nine years old... I'm not going to burden you with these particular numbers anymore, so I'm going to make a summary. Of the 29 criminal proceedings in which the corruption element was not contained and in which the appeal was lodged, that is to say, an extraordinary appeal to be brought under strict, taxatically calculated and very carefully calculated by the Supreme Court of Criminal Procedure in the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that out of these 29 criminal proceedings against 93 representatives, the Supreme Court was annulled by a decision of a lower-degree court in 15 criminal proceedings against 56 representatives. And the last number. This means about 52 percent of the maladministration of the general courts concerning 60 per cent of the members of the municipal councils. I've come to the conclusion that you need to know these numbers. I know that I am not doing this to promote the upcoming municipal elections, but it is a great appeal to think about whether, at the moment, there has really been an unjustified upturn in the power of the executive and the legislative power to the detriment of the legislative one, and therefore, of course, as others have been said here by the President of our club, I will vote against the extradition, so that it is a signal that we are sending out, and we say: we have immunity here, which is an instrument that we can use and which we can use if we conclude that it is using the means of criminal law. Finally, I would just like to say that this case is also a sad proof of how the criminal proceedings are currently going, how much we need a new criminal order, as I believe only the reasoning of the judgment lasted for more than a year, so that the convicted one could not even defend himself because he did not know the justification, the judgment was not delivered. And it is even a question of how this will continue to be done. I do not recall the statement made by Dr Sotolář, President of the Senate, who judged Mr Svoboda, which is a sad proof of what the justice picture is when he mentioned something in that sense - I cannot quote him, but I understood the meaning as well as my previous speaker, Mr Michálek, that, in fact, those who should stand before a criminal court are different from those who stand before him in particular. That's how I'd paraphrase it. Thank you for your attention. And it is a great challenge for us to do something about the state of our criminal justice at least at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u17	Thank you, Madame Válková, for the performance. Have a good afternoon. Before I give the floor to Mr Kalousek, I have one apology here. From today's meeting, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for working reasons from 16.30 to 17.30. So I will ask Mr Miroslav Kalousek in the general debate. You have your word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to respond to Mr Feranc's position, who said that today we are going to make a substantive decision, while last week we decided purely politically. I think our decisions are always political. The House is a political body and its resolution is a fundamental political decision. Some of us can always like this decision in a material way or in a factual way, but it is exclusively a political decision, it was last week and it will be as a political decision today. I'm the one who was here last week, when I was so widely quoted by President Faltýnek, that sometimes I'm in favour of publishing and sometimes I'm not, and where I have that line, I tried to explain where I have that line. That limit is the difference between an individual act that I could or did not have made according to my own decision and a political decision made in the congregation, especially in the case of municipal councils or municipal councils. Let me give you a primitive example. If I do business while I'm an MP, I'm gonna ask the bank for credit, and I'm gonna put some false information into that request, and I'm gonna mislead the loan provider, so I'm probably gonna, if it bursts on me, prosecuted for credit fraud, and there's no reason for me not to be issued, because it was my decision and my actions outside my public office. Representatives of municipal and municipal councils or councils are not in such a situation. They have to deal with some particular situation, they have their responsibility with their mandate, and they do not have a very strong chance of deciding between ideal and bad, very often they have to decide between bad and even worse at a time when they minimize damage. And even if they choose the least bad decision, that means minimizing the damage, it's still not an ideal decision, and then the executive power comes in, the prosecutor comes in and says all the reasons why it was wrong, and he's prosecuting. At the same time, I can easily imagine in this logic and in this criminal policy that if the council, which the Mayor of Docent Svoboda had not decided what he had decided, but decided simply to organise a selection procedure that could not be organised in the given situation, at least according to all the expert opinions available to him, so that the prosecutor would come in and prosecute it for the damage caused by their inactivity or by his other bad decision. I can imagine just as well, forgive me for making a general statement on the next point, because the case of Mr Postoloprt is just as absurd, if not more absurd from my point of view as the case of Professor Svoboda, that if they had not actively dealt with the house in Postoloprt, then someone might have come and prosecuted them for violating the duties of managing foreign property, because the house would have fallen. I really would hate to, and it sometimes threatens to do so in a number of cases, where municipal representatives and, in a way, governments, regional councils, when they decide in the choir and make political decisions, which they can do nothing but minimize damage in that situation, but they cannot prevent the damage from being completely prevented from being held by the Memento State Prosecutor's office "decide how you want to decide, however you decide, as well as the prosecution is waiting for you." I would like us to think, in particular, about it - a pity that the Minister of Justice is not here, but I think it would deserve its own discussion - please note how this policy, which has actually begun the so-called big anti-corruption revolution, because the accusations, these cases took place especially in 2012, 2013, 2014, how they significantly influenced and influence the personnel quality of the candidates, and thus the personnel quality of municipal representativeships, and thus, in consequence, the quality of practical policy and applied democracy. Each of us, if we are dealing with municipal candidates - I, as the former party chairman, had a rich experience with this, and I am certainly not alone here, that we have been around our communities, our cities and important personalities have called for participation in the candidate, participation in the city's self-government, so a number of extremely high-quality people have said, "don't be angry, no, we will be happy to support you, but in no way will we go to the candidate and certainly not to the council, because we will not buy a ticket to prison." It is simply this deterrent memento that a number of good quality people are not involved in governance because they are simply afraid that this application of criminal policy against collective political decisions will also fall on them. And that's a serious matter. This is not only about one individual case, but it is really about the personnel quality of applied policy, and thus about the personnel quality of realized democracy, if you allow me these terms. I think we should deal with this. One of the things that we are going to take an active look at is that in both of these cases, both in the case of Mr Svoboda and in the case of Mr Růžička, we will give a clear signal that we do not, that we do not like this, that we do not consider it right, that we do not consider it fair and that we will not give our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u19	I thank Mr Kalousek. I have Mr Ivo Vondrák on the first point of fact, Mr Pavel Blažek will be prepared for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u20	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the logical deduction of what I have just heard here is that Babiš and Faltýnek's extradition was a political decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u21	Thank you. I have two applications for the general debate. Mr Pavel Blažek is the first Member and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared for the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u22	Hello, thank you for your word. I would like to begin by thanking my colleague Válková for the statistics that are significant and should be repeated very often here to see how the system of law enforcement agencies is really going on in this section of public life and how poor and bad it is going on. That needs to be emphasized all the time. I'll also give you one piece of information on the case of Mr. Svoboda. You know, the immunity, if not issued today by the Member, means only one message to the law enforcement authorities: the Member has immunity, and you, the law enforcement authorities, you just have to wait for the immunity to go away, and you can move on. It means we're stalling. But in this case, when, it was about two years ago, Professor Svoboda asked me that he was waiting a year for a verdict, for a written copy, and if it was normal, I told him that it was probably not normal. And then I informed myself, and when I informed myself, at the Municipal Court in Prague, they said, "Yes, that's normal." Well, I don't know if that's normal for you. And now I'm gonna translate it freely. Professor Svoboda and other defendants in this case have waited 13 months for them to receive a written copy of the judgment in order to defend themselves. When he decides today that the Member will not be given up, he discusses that we are somehow abstaining from law enforcement agencies, he is under the weight of these facts in an odd way. They didn't rush themselves, and I think that really - and now I'm going to turn to the YES movement because it has its own government today - this situation cannot be tolerated any further. I don't want to talk about who's to blame, it's not, it's just that now the government is monochrome and the consequences are huge. You often come from an environment of managerial functions, from a business environment, so I don't know if any of you can imagine writing anything for 13 months. I don't think so. You'd probably hit the worker who would process it like that in some way, probably even get rid of it. [[16.20 hours]] And let me make a general remark, and I'm going to use it now and I'm going to turn to the members of the government: you know, we've kind of gotten used to the pressure of some different articles and the general atmosphere that there's some kind of closed world of public prosecutors and justice that no one really can. When they say something about it, it's almost an immoral crime, almost democracy falls. But if the government is responsible for the state's attorney's office, then common sense can't be that it can't interfere. The current legislation provides many ways to do this through the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, but also through government resolutions, how the government can correct criminal policy in this system as well. The problem is that it takes political courage, because there are always some who will say: he's some kind of intervention. It's not. In Austria, for example, it happened a few years ago when they approved something we might be surprised about. Even the minister can normally call the state's attorney in Austria and ask them how it is, how it is not, why that prosecutor is doing it when it takes him so long, no matter how different. So in Austria, as part of what is called transparency, they have done one thing: they must already write it in writing. But it's not like they can't talk about it with those prosecutors. And I would like to challenge you, because you have a very decent election result, you have a one-color government, a kind of courage for the criminal policy to start working on this section. For myself - I say this for myself now, but I am an opposition Member - I can actually promise in advance that if it is within the limits of the law and it is done wisely, I will certainly not be the one to abuse it in the political struggle. On the contrary, I would like the Minister of Justice, but also the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole to deal with this situation. Because if you don't, we're gonna have to hold you responsible for what's going on there, because that government is responsible. And I'm saying it again and I'm stressing it when I'm responsible for something, it can't mean I can't interfere. It's just common sense can never take it. And that's not the law. It's a myth that just came out. And I would even ever... to say it, the word independence, I rather like it there, so to speak, impartiality. Nothing can be independent in any state. And if we are a republic, then voters will hand out mandates in some way, you have a responsibility, and it is impossible for any state body - I repeat, any state body - to be independent of how elections will turn out, what this House decides and what this government decides. So I'm just asking the government to deal with this someday. Because I totally understand some of the colleagues in the YES movement, when they saw some things from the outside, I mean now, they saw something on TV, they read something about it, so some things seemed to them, now I'm going to say it in a general, certain way. Now they see it from the inside, and they're starting to find out that some of the things they thought, some of the impressions they had may be a little shifted in the direction that the media may have created for you. So I would offer myself a helping hand here on the general level, that the government should really deal with this and that the criminal policy should be done. Let me also, I hate to do this, but I must remind you that when we talk here, and my colleague Kalousek said it beautifully and she said it beautifully to my colleague Válková, about the fact that a little bit and too much of the criminal authorities are interfering with the work of the self-government. You know, it came from the fact that our former colleague, once state's attorney, actually made a decision many years ago and said: law enforcement authorities, throw yourself at self-government, there are unfair things going on. This is nothing more than a political assignment for the prosecutor's office. In a broader sense, it was called. actions Clean hands, which was also a political assignment for law enforcement authorities. Although I can think of this as mine, I have to admit - and that's what I was talking about a moment ago - that's the kind of assignment that the government can give. Not that he can't, he just can. The fact that the prosecutor then said that and directed the law enforcement authorities can also be a problem is that it has its consequences after years. And the consequences are that today it is better not to decide anything at all, because you never know which prosecutor or policeman will interpret any of your actions in a way that doesn't occur to you in advance. Together, it is a state of legal uncertainty in the institutions that decide on quite substantial matters. I will not bore you any further, but I would just really, and now I am saying this completely collegially and I ask you in the YES movement and in the government to think about how to deal with the conduct of criminal policy. [[with emphasis on the word performance]] Because we don't just make laws, but the government has responsibility for the system, and paradoxically and indirectly, even for the courts. The moment something happens in the courts, who are we gonna yell at? To the Minister of Justice. There, however, I understand that this is a separate power, and there is no way to talk about the government deciding on any judicial policy there, etc. But no doubt with those prosecutors, and if she doesn't, she's responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u23	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek. Just to recapitulate, I have three applications for factual remarks and two applications for the general debate. Before we begin with factual remarks and prepare the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, I will read two apologies here. Professor Vyzula apologizes from 16.00 to the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mr David Kasal apologises from 16.00 to the end of the meeting for personal reasons. Let's start with factual remarks. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u24	Thank you. I just have to respond to the enthusiasm that was said here in the debate about admitting that this is a political decision. Of course, this is a political decision. We are a political body, we are composed of politicians, and therefore we are making political decisions. Every vote in this House, in its institutions, is a political decision. The exceptions are really rare. If I have to remember one, it was a decision to change the rapporteur. This may have been a non-political decision, but otherwise we are making political decisions, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have Mr Ferjenčík's enrollment as a further point of fact. Please. And before you get to the counter, I'll read one apology. Today, between 13:00 and 19:00, Mr Petr Beitl apologizes because of illness. So, Mr. Ferjenčík, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u26	Thank you for the floor. To me, it seems a little sad that two former ministers of justice are here to pause over the state of the Czech justice system and over how long judicial cases have been going on. It was their job to do something about it. However, the fact that justice works poorly cannot be an argument in the assessment of parliamentary immunity. We assess whether this meets any requirements, according to the conscience of each Member. In our fantasy, what's the immunity for? In my opinion, its purpose is to protect Members from any political or economic or lobbyist attacks by the government, or from the parties to any corporations, but it certainly does not serve to stop the courts investigating cases where at least I have not encountered in this case anybody questioning that justice is just because they think it is. But Mr. Svoboda isn't in court because a rival party has given him some kind of claim. Here, the prosecutors simply came to the conclusion that the solution to the Opencard situation was bad enough to be prosecuted. And I think this is for the court to decide. I think we're sending a very bad signal to citizens when we say that politicians are above them, and because they don't like the way justice works, they won't give in to it and they'll be state over it. That is why I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And another with a factual point, please, to Mrs Pekarová, will be prepared with a factual remark by Mr Stanjura. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Vice-President took it away from me a little bit. I wanted to see you through, Mr President, Mr Vondrák, because he tried to do a top-notch manipulation here. Well, in case you haven't noticed, we're politicians. The MP is a politician. So all the decisions we make here are really political. At the most, if you're in the cafeteria deciding whether you're gonna have a sandwich or a sandwich, that's probably not a political decision, but this vote, whatever it is, is political. It's our political decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u29	Thank you, Madame. Another comment by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and will be prepared by the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u30	I'll loosen up. A colleague, Mr. Docent Svoboda, is being prosecuted for political decisions and I am convinced that you should be responsible for political decisions. Yes, voters don't have to like it, they can say they made the wrong decision, I won't vote for them. But not criminal liability. I would like to correct Mr Ferjenčík. That was not Mr Svoboda's decision. That was the decision of the Prague Capital Council, if I'm not mistaken. And if you look at the process, then suddenly the court - and it's independent, but maybe I can express myself critically - will say that some councilmen are relieved of responsibility and actually developed them and some of them are not. That seems completely absurd to me. Totally absurd! So I will, and I have done so in the past, if anyone is prosecuted for political decision, I am voting against extradition. We have enough other political means to lead controversy at the level of the city, the region, the state, whether it was good or bad, we can offer other solutions, we can criticize, but not criminalize. And that is the criminalization of a political decision. And that's not because we're above citizens. It's not like that at all. If we have any doubt - and for me it's a system approach. There is no criminal liability for political decisions. Otherwise, it leads to alibis, non-decision, stagnation, and eventually the city's decline. I spend my working life in Prague, I'm at home in Opava and somewhere else, but today and every day I see stagnation and decline and one of the consequences is a loss of courage to decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Please make a point of fact, Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u32	Thank you, I also respond to Mr Ferjenčík's speech through you. A lot has already been said by the President of our House of Deputies, but one more thing I would like to underline. With our decision and the statement that the House may have reached, we are not only protecting politicians. We are currently protecting citizens because democracy in the Czech Republic will be seriously disrupted if we allow political decisions to be criminalized, and we have been moving towards this for a long time in this state. And it is our responsibility to face it with all our strength. And for those who think that the criminalization of political decisions, all right, but those politicians are taking risks and good risks to those politicians so, but who goes into politics is so bad, so I want to tell them that it has other and other consequences for society. If you're criminalizing a political decision, who's about to want to be mayor? Does the mayor dare to make any decisions? And it goes on. Anyone who wants to be director of the zoo will be afraid to write a public contract. Who's gonna want to be the head of the library, the head of the school? We can't do this. It is not possible to criminalize a management and political decision that is made in good faith, without personal enrichment, based on the opinions of officials, based on legal opinions, just because two or three years later someone just doesn't like it. If we allow this to happen in this country, we are not protecting citizens at all, but rather destroying the quality of our democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u33	I would like to thank Vice-President Fial and, on another point of fact, please speak to Mr Ivo Vondrák. Mr Marek the Výborný will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u34	Thank you. There's only one thing I'd like to say. Politics is a decision-making process, and I would like to say that more votes do not mean more truth. In order to realize that when we give people out and decide the fates of people, we should somehow keep this in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another factual point, Mr Marek Výborný. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u36	I wanted to respond to my colleague, Mr. Vice-President, Ferjenčík you. I respect that it is your decision to vote, which is, of course, possible, but I believe that the institute of immunity, as we have defined in our Constitution, in our constitutional order, is precisely for these facts, where, on the basis of a political decision, there is a restriction on the mandate of those who are part of Parliament, and that is precisely why it is there. He said it here, Mr. Vice-President, before me, and another very good one. We should consider this. And let me remind you that immunity here is not defined for life. This means that this thing will not end automatically, it will continue after the end of the mandate, but we are issuing some kind of signal now and we are saying that there is no limit to the political mandate that has been created here by the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u37	Thank you, Mr Member, and the last one so far entered in the factual remarks is Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to President Fiala through Mr President. I think the problem with our society is that politicians are not responsible for their decisions. And your argument that people wouldn't report to those public positions is completely wrong. Year after year, more parties are running, more people in municipal elections. Interest in public functions has never been as great as it has been in recent years. So this claim that, in response to the occasional - and indeed occasional - criminalization of certain decisions, and I must stress that these decisions are illegal according to prosecutors, and that is why they attacked them, so that from time to time some politician stands before the courts did not really lead people to stop reporting to public office or to be afraid to make decisions. Fortunately, in some cases, it has discouraged them from making some very bad decisions. Pirates enforce the responsibility of politicians for their decisions, and if they break the law, they should be held accountable, not just politically. I know that the ODS has a history where their Members may have given up their mandate in exchange for making some political decisions, but that is your party's tradition. We certainly don't want to do that sort of thing. And I think that your attitude backwards, that there are some poor politicians who are being bullied here by the justice system, is totally inappropriate in the real situation that exists in our country, which shows that Mr. Bém has never stood before that court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u39	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. And now here I have a shrink of factual remarks. So I have Mr Pavel Blažek as the first to sign up, Mr Jan zahradník will be prepared. So, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u40	I'm just briefly responding to my colleague Ferjenčík. You said the sentence that politicians don't really have that responsibility and they should have it. But if you look at them, they're really just politicians who have some responsibility. [[unintelligible]] Once in four years or five, depending on the season, voters are evaluated, and when they do it wrong, they end up. The debate is all about it - and now I'm going to give you a simple example. Professor Válková said some numbers here. And the problem is, the numbers are pretty scary how many prosecutions have been acquitted. And I guarantee you, those who have dragged these people all these years, nothing will happen to them, there is no responsibility. At least we have one. We have a limited mandate. The others do not and will not be affected by the fact that they have literally ruined someone's life, because it is also the medialization of those politicians. And after all, it doesn't have to be just a politician, it could be some kind of company, like an armory. If the media cares, you're gonna take him out by being criminally prosecuted, then exonerated, whatever, he's not gonna get contracts, people are gonna stop talking to him, etc. Nothing's gonna happen to them. But we in three years, in three years at the latest, will have some campaigns, and we have a lot more responsibility than these organs. You're incorruptible. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u41	Well, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So now I ask Mr Jan zahradník, and Mrs Válková, you are now the fifth in the order of the factual comment. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u42	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been speaking on this issue of the extradition of the Donate of Svoboda four or three and a half years ago, and when I remember what I said at the time, I really don't have to change anything about it. I pointed out the cases of South Bohemia mayors, the mayor of the town of Český Krumlov repeatedly prosecuted for the decision he made in difficult times of the floods 2002. The mayor of Lipno, who was repeatedly prosecuted for the decision he made as a member of the board and the council. Of course, both of these men were acquitted of their accusations, found innocent, but it left undeniably significant clues on their lives. [[16.40 hours]] But what changed? I am still a member of the council in České Budějovice. Such comments were added, which are heard in discussions with individual materials. Many colleagues justify their not voting for the material, not because they disagree with the intention itself, but say that they are concerned that their vote might then be subject to criminal prosecution. Therefore, with the warning they abstain or leave, and the mandatory majority of all the representatives - this is not a quorum like in our presence, but of all - then cause a low number of votes for the material. Moreover, a colleague or colleague who does not like the decision often happens, or it happened that they will file a criminal complaint against those representatives who voted for the material, and they are then at least subject to an explanation, which is the first stage before any prosecution. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u43	There. So next in line, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Petr Gazdík, Mr. MP, will prepare for factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u44	I would like to ask Mr Ferjenčík to respect the words. Professor Svoboda is no poor politician. He's a man with a respectable career in life. Great doctor, great educator, Prague's rated as an excellent mayor. I can't accept the revolutionary theory that when the woods fall, splinters fly. He's not a loser. And he's being criminalized, dragged around the courts, and for 13 months he's been waiting for a verdict. And if you're touching some... and criticizing the Civil Democratic Party, just say the whole thing. Yes, my former colleagues were taken into custody, illegally prosecuted, had to apologize for it and pay off millions of dollars. Destroyed careers at least political. What happened to those who blew it? Ivo Ištvan. Do you remember the press conference after he put them in custody? What happened to them? Where is the responsibility of these people? Then don't use such stupid examples. You just used an example of the state apologizing, paid the compensation, and it's an independent court decision. Firstly, it is not true, you argue the same way as those prosecutors who committed this illegal act. And I point out, I repeat, that the court stated that this was an illegal act by the prosecutors. Have you ever called for the responsibility of these people? We all paid for their mistake because it was the Justice Department from the relevant chapter. I didn't hear the call for responsibility. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. You could, for example, call to account today those who have executed an illegal prosecution in such a way that the state had to apologize and pay compensation. [[Mr. Ambassador, time.]] Do not really use such a stupid example! . [[Applause for Members of the ODS]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u45	So, thank you, and with another point of fact, Mr Petr Gazdík and Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u46	I would also like to respond to Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President. Ambassador, please examine the two cases we have on the table today. These are exactly the examples that speak against what you said. But the Council of Prague's capital, if it had done nothing at the time or if it had decided otherwise, would probably have missed a billion, and there is a public interest that a million Pražan would have had to start using paper coupons, regardless of the loss of confidence that they had bought some card that they had invested in and failed them. And they could probably also be prosecuted for losing a billion in their decisions or for not doing so. They acted somehow, And in that file, it's nonsense that they're being blamed for allegedly concluding a contract with someone who would do it cheaper, according to the market price. I'm sure someone else would have done it at a cheaper market price. But they couldn't. They were bound by previous contracts that only the one company could do it. And it's just the mistake, the crucial evidence against what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u47	Well, thank you, Mr Member, and now, please, Marek the Výborný in fact, and Mrs Válková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u48	Thank you very briefly, Mr Vice-President, for my colleague Ferjenčík. Perhaps it would be really good if you could get some information from the members of the mandate and immunity committee on your part. Then you wouldn't really be able to downplay and attack the mayors of our communities, the municipal politicians and say that a few mayors, maybe somewhere poor, etc. That's just not true. Those are tens, respectively. Hundreds of local politicians. And then if you hear that there was no harm done here, that there was no proof of intent and that I just feel like there might be something here and that I don't like it, and that there's a criminal prosecution going on, I'm actually saying that this is the result of the anti-corruption hysteria created here that was driven by ad absurdum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u49	Well, thank you, and now, on the point of fact, Mrs Válková. Please. And the MP, Vice-President of the House of Fiala, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Fortunately, the previous speakers, so I will have it quite light and perhaps even short, said most of these things, I would just highlight here what Mr. Výborný, Mr. Výborný said. I beg you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Ferjenčík, you have a representative on the mandate and immunity committee, and that is why we, too, have been relatively - it did not sound very much here in the morning - generously agreed to our mistake in the ANO movement to increase the number of members of those control committees in these very sensitive matters. So it wants to consult your colleagues and they would certainly tell you how it went and how irrational with forgiveness is your critical or would-be critical reminder of us politicians. The case itself is worth getting the information. Then, as far as compensation is concerned, I am glad that Mr Stanjura, through you, Mr Vice-President, mentioned this because there is no regression in the form - after all these years, of course, it cannot be held as a disciplinary liability, if it takes three, four, five years, for those decisions, and it is a million-dollar amount that is still increasing. We have the statistics from the Justice Department at our disposal. And the last line to what he said to make it clear to everyone, Mr Blažek. I am in complete agreement with that, just as he is the former Minister of Justice, and I know very well that criminal policy can always be focused on a specific subject. They were victims last time. Victims are now in a very good position of crime. It was different before. Of course, it wasn't just this topic. I don't want to abuse time to make a point of fact, but I mean, it's time to change the criminal policy, and it does... [[Madam, time.]] The Minister of Justice is responsible for this. So we're definitely gonna tell him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u51	děkovat you, Madame, and to the point of fact, Vice-President Petr Fiala of the House and Mr Jakub Michálek will prepare himself. You're jamming the point of fact. So, Mr. Jakub Michálek. Please. And Mr Roman Onderka will be prepared for a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u52	I have to say, I've been really amused by the statement that the victims of crime are now in a very good position. That's what I think is a great message for everyone who gets hurt by a crime. All I wanted to do here was respond to the misinformation, and it's really just a factual remark about a crappy billion. By that time, it was already drowned costs. Let's really not repeat the argument here because it's not valid. We sat there in 2014, when we got there, Mrs. Mayor Krnáčová and I were discussing it, we also took some steps, we put on paper coupons, we did the lítačka, we could handle it, but it would like to have someone who really understood that thing sitting there. It's not a sandbox game. And unfortunately, at that time, it was casual. That's just a fact, and the result is consistent. Mikuláš Ferjenčík here responded to arguments such as that no one will run for office in municipal elections. Just please refrain from these arguments that just don't make sense, and let's get back to the substantive discussion, if anyone still has it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u53	Well, thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your performance. And to another point of fact, Mr. Roman Onderka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, and this is the last point of fact so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u54	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the Chamber of Deputies, which in its own way is exceptional. We have the ex-Primator of Prague, the ex-Primator of Brno, we have the ex-Primator of Pilsen, the ex-Primator of Karviné. And I am very surprised and am amused when Mr Ferjenčík and others explain to us how the responsibility or mandate of Mayors of statutory cities in the Czech Republic lasts. The mayor isn't elected for a four-year term, if you don't happen to realize that. The mayor is elected and the possibility of his appeal by the council is every month. Thirty days of responsibility. He doesn't have to sit in the highest chair in 30 days. And we're talking about this mayor being responsible for the collective decision of the council and council. It's nonsense. The Mayor must sign any document agreed by the council or council if he does not suspect criminal activity and does not give reasons at the next meeting of the city council. It should be noted that the mayor is in the least advantageous situation of all city representatives. As for Mr. Svoboda, I've dealt with him several times. After all, we talked about this system, because each of the larger cities has problems with transport, with public transport and has to deal with it. And I must say that I believe that the Chamber of Deputies cannot issue people to the Police of the Czech Republic to be criminalized for the collective decision of the authorities of their cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This is the last factual point at the moment, so we will go back to the general debate. And here I have Mr Milan Feranc as the first Member to prepare Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just really three short notes. First to what it is about political decision making. We can really talk about this endlessly. In the case that we are now discussing, it was that the board approved the use of JŘB in the case where, in the opinion of the police, it should not have done so. That's the thing. And if we made a decision as members of the mandate committee, we came to the conclusion that we could not justly ask the mayor to make a decision other than that recommended by all the professional bodies, lawyers, lawyers, etc., he had no choice. But what does that mean? It means we've evaluated it differently than the law enforcement authorities have. We didn't judge it that way! And all last week we've heard here - we're not a trial, we're not allowed to judge anything, we can't, that's what someone else is for. So I'm just going back to the differences of today and last week. But one thing connects these two cases - the stork's nest and the Opencard 1. We're dealing with Opencard 2. It wouldn't be if it wasn't for Opencard 1. And it's connected by some people. Opencard 1 - State's Attorney Máchová, who dealt with it until she figured it out. The stork's nest - the investigator didn't Nevtípil so. What do they have in common? Well, they met in another case, called. The tunneling by Neograph, where they managed to escape several times by hand, led to the judgment of Mr Sitta the elder, Mr Sitta the younger, when the Supreme Court acquitted them - not returned them, acquitted the prosecutions and stated that the law enforcement authorities had repeatedly erred, misjudged it. And he even stated that the criminal charges against these two persons were from the circles of Mr. Rittig and his colleagues. and should have been avenged for announcing the tunneling of the transport undertaking. All you have to do is look at the website of the National Fund against Corruption, that's where the verdict is, that's where it's directly stated, the ruling of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And lastly, I have Mr Leo Luzar on the table for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't take advantage of my priority rights, I waited in a row of debaters, and I think that was a good thing because I listened to a lot of opinions about that thing. And I would like to say my experience. I've been a representative of the city district since 1990. And believe me, I've been through a lot of mischief. I appreciate all the honest mayors, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, but unfortunately I have also experienced those who have used this post for their own personal benefit, whether material or intangible - now I will not play judge and distinguish. When it was so callable to heaven that it couldn't be hidden from society, what was happening in those municipalities, a wave was created - and it was also said here in the discussion - a wave of cleansing I would call it. And the wave lifted some activity of the organs that helped this society to show iniquity and to show the things in the right nudity. She also helped various movements, parties, and so on. initiatives to get to a certain political power. Because the wave was supposed to clear the company. We're here to discuss whether the wave had the character of a tsunami, or it was just supposed to be a kind of purgatory sea wave related to the tide and tide. But what this House of Law was supposed to do here is set the boundaries. That was our job. That was the role of this House. That is why I am sorry that there is not a Minister of Justice who should hear these views and should initiate the right bills to guide both the actions of prosecutors and the judges. It has also been said here that they are not people without responsibility, as we perceive them. Just because someone's being appointed president isn't without responsibility for doing his job. How long have we been talking about some sort of judicial responsibility, some sort of self-government in its internal order, so we don't interfere as legislators in the power of justice. These are all things that are here in the long run, but when the extradition debates are over, and most of the time it's always about issuing someone, it falls asleep because we don't really want to enter the built-in area, or the minefield of the right. I want to talk about it here, and it has also been said here - there are a huge number of mayors, representatives who are being prosecuted. Maybe they're unlucky they don't have immunity. And it just has to go through the Martyrium. I myself have witnessed x cases, even here I can say that the law has been abused for defamation. And I have also experienced purposefully prosecuting, filing a complaint, so that the authorities can discredit someone in order to have to purify themselves. I guess we all know these things here. But we're here to decide on two cases, each a little bit different, the markers here are obvious, one statutory city, the capital, the other small village with its problems. But where do we get the right to take these two examples here, like those pointers, like those opinional, clear ones that we're doing oral fights on here, what's right, what's wrong? And all the other mayors, the mayors, they're just unlucky, and the Martyrium had to go through it. And I had a chance to talk to the mayors who went through it. Again, I'm blaming the Minister of Justice for the fact that the current case lasted five or six years. That wasn't a year, that wasn't one term. That usually lasted five or six years. One acquittal, if any. When they really didn't know both, and some conditional decision mostly on lack of evidence. It's quite a problem to prove these matters. My point is that it's hard for me, as a legal layman, to assess specific cases. When I asked how it was said here, colleagues, and I asked for the opinion of colleagues across the spectrum who are members of the mandate and immune committee, of course, they could not tell me the details, but they told me their opinion, their opinion - now I'm paraphrasing him freely - Jesus Christ, there was such a, with pardon for the word, a mess if I didn't use the vulgar expression as the investigator, as the prosecutor could. [[17,00 hours]] I'm heading to the Minister of Justice again. How could they ever do such a thing, especially if they know they're aiming at people where it's going to go into the mandate and immune committee that's going to deal with it, leave a striking discrepancy in quotes. Isn't it also that they're used to being out of control? Isn't it also about the reason they're taking off? That they simply rely on the collegiateness of the judge, the collegiateness of the prosecutors, not to deny each other who does good and poor work? And it's about us again. It's about us, what laws we approve and how we look at it and how we try to fix this thing here. I'd love to, and I'm saying, if the Minister of Justice were here today, if he took a personal assignment from this day on, that he wouldn't chase, as they say, pigeons on the roof, but he'd take the sparrows in the hand that we stacked him up and he'd start dealing with this problem here. Because it's already proving to be a big problem, a long-term problem. And now I really don't care about these cases of us here in the House, but about the dozens of mayors and mayors and city hall representatives who are in what's going to happen tomorrow, what about the policeman and how. And now I'm not saying they're innocent at all. For me, as a longtime representative, the biggest problem in general is the uncertainty of those people when I was talking to them. And I confess, I've always welcomed the chance of those who were given here before, to say what they thought. This is a huge advantage that you normally have in court when you can publicly say - in that investigator's office, the opinion will sound, it's being tapped into a machine somewhere, but that's probably the end of it - to be able to say what that person thinks about it. Here, the possibility of those who are being published is even greater, because it is a media opportunity to say their point of view. But in the end, isn't it easier and better to let the machine run? Because they won't run away. Unfortunately, they won't escape. Or thank God? There was a time when she got away. The history of the Czech Republic from 20 years ago, 25 years ago, knows the cases where it was visibly criminal acts, and yet thanks to immunity, these people escaped responsibility for life. The restrictions that are here, yes, colleagues on the proposals of the mandate and immunity committee may not be extradition. But for three more years, the brand on their foreheads will be burned for being unjustly convicted. They're gonna be running around the world with that brand for three years, and they're not gonna get a chance to move this case to a successful ending. I don't want to appeal here, and it doesn't belong to me, but I'm giving it some consideration to whether it's better to have it over in the end, because the uncertainty that they're living in, and I think the uncertainty is because I've experienced those cases where sleepless nights over what they're going to be, it's driving them to want to go to court in the end. And that's two choices. Either I wait three years, maybe another term, I don't want to anticipate, but in the end, I'm not gonna run away from that court. Paradoxically, I can get to the point where my case will be removed from the others, the others will somehow be dealt with, somehow convicted or liberated, but that still doesn't say anything about how my particular case will be. Because I've seen cases where three people were charged for the same crime, one confessed, got parole, but he was removed from the case and dealt with separately because he confessed, the others were finally freed because there was a lack of evidence, even if he confessed. It's a mystery. That's what the courts decided. He didn't even appeal because he said, I take the probation, I just want to be calm, because what I've been experiencing, the Martyrium, I don't want to do that again. And again, I don't want to appeal. I say my opinion on the matter that sometimes it may be easier and better to have it over and to rely on the worldly justice, even if I don't have to trust them, even if it can be lengthy, even if it can be used by the media. But there's a chance we're able to move forward. And again, I appeal to the absent Minister of Justice that I would like him to take it up with him and deal with these cases and figure out what we all feel here is a problem. As a layman, I will rely on some opinion from fellow members of the mandate and immune committee, rely on my conscience and rely on my experience. But that certain taste in your mouth will remain. I would like to, and I do not want to anticipate again, if the words of those concerned are heard here, as was the case with Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, so that we may also know how they look at it. But I would still like it not to happen again, and if the authorities they are supposed to do so, they do so, so that we do not have to question, so that we do not even have a shadow of doubt about the quality of their work, especially when they have to know very well that it is something that will be examined. And to me, sometimes they make fun of us. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry for holding you up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have another application for the general debate, last one, and it is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. So far I see no further factual comment or application for a debate. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u60	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have now come forward during the debate. I think there are a few more points to make. First, in the story we are discussing right now, ten members of the board were theoretically charged with collective decisions, four were sentenced to punishment, and the prosecutor did not appeal to any of those liberating judgments. That means the four of them are probably more guilty than the other six. It's already waking up a big doubt in me in itself. Second of all, there's a lot about guilt, guilt. I would feel that people are to be judged, and especially in those political positions, for trying to in some way unduly enrich, somehow improve, something like that, but not when they make the wrong decision. Please, nicely, how many times have we voted here in the past, and in a month, five, two years, they've accepted an amendment that's corrected some of our decisions? And just because we're covered by total immunity from the vote, some prosecutors haven't jumped us yet. But otherwise, let's be sure that we already have a lot of criminal prosecutions here. It is simply not in my view that in political life it should be punished by other than political means; the means of criminal law should not be punished by false decisions. If there's no more guilt, enrichment, anything like that, then the wrong decision... Basic management instruction says: out of ten decisions, seven are right and three are wrong. And it's pointless to criminalize those three. I think she's the most desperate. Third point. I think that this House also sends some signals to society through its decision-making, saying in some way what it thinks, saying what the Minister of Justice and the Government sometimes has no courage to say: the prosecutor's office, act one way or another. And we are supposed to say at this point: we consider the prosecution of representatives who are now members of the House by chance and who are being prosecuted only for making a decision that is wrong and wrong, and we will not allow the members of this House to make such decisions at the time of their mandate. There's no doubt that they'll have to deal with it. I think most of these cases, until then, will fall liberating sentences final and then it will be a pure formality. But that's another thing I already think about. But we are signaling: the parliamentary mandate is not to be violated just because someone previously in a political position has made a political decision that is to blame for it. [[17.10 hours]] And the last thing Mr Luzar said in particular. One of the things on which the mandate and immunity committee, in my view, had quite clearly agreed was that, on the basis of all the statistics presented by the Union of Advocates, which Mrs Válková read in part here, we would try to address in particular paragraph 221 of the Criminal Code on the basis of the constitutional law committee, i.e. a violation of the obligations in the management of foreign property from negligence in relation to collective bodies. We will undoubtedly request a report from the Minister of Justice and the D.A. on how many cases criminal prosecutions are initiated, how many cases are prosecuted and how many such cases are convicted at the end. I think they're total fractions, but we need the statistics from justice first. And I think that we will also have to think about whether this paragraph in this text is correctly interpreted, correctly used, or is an institution active in criminal proceedings, and unfortunately often on the basis of prosecutions, criminal announcements by various political competitors, various activists and others, I do not know what to call it, urban opportunists, used only to eliminate their political opponents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u61	I thank Mr Benda. So I will look after the plenary to see if I have any interest in a participant in the debate. I do not, I do not see a factual point either, so I am ending the general debate. Let me read one more apology here: between 17 and 21 o'clock, Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes for the meeting in the electoral region. I will ask the President of the mandate and immunity committee and the rapporteur if they have the final word. They don't want the final word, so let's move on. We will proceed to the debate in detail. And here I would ask the rapporteur, Petr Gazdík, to introduce us once again to the resolution, or to refer to a resolution he has already read. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As mentioned in his opening speech by the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee at the end of the proceedings of the Municipal Court in Prague on the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Bohuslav Svoboda, the mandate and immune committee adopted Resolution No. 43 that you were given on the bench. In the vote, we will decide on the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Allow me to make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Rule 27 (2) '. 4 of Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and according to the provisions of Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, agrees to prosecute the Member docent. MUDr. Bohuslav Svoboda, CSc, born February 8, 1944." The entire motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is contained in resolution No. 43, which was distributed to you on the bench. I believe that the whole text bounded by quotation marks does not need to be read. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u63	Thank you. If I'm looking well, it was the only application for a detailed debate. I, therefore, conclude a detailed debate. There's a check-out request. I'll check you out. I will, in order to be sure, arrange for all Members of Parliament to be called to vote. [[Mr Faltynek asks for a rereading of the resolution from the point of view.]] So once again, there's an interest in reading the proposal. So, the rapporteur, Petr Gazdík, once again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u64	Allow me to read the motion for a resolution once more. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Rule 27 (2) of the Rules of Procedure shall: 4 of Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and according to the provisions of Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, agrees to prosecute the Member docent. MUDr Bohuslav Svoboda, CSc." More in the text on the benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u65	I thank the rapporteur. We all understand the motion for a resolution that we will vote on. I won't wait any longer. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the resolution, press the yes button and raise your hand. - Sorry, I'm sorry. I forgot to press the opening button because I followed the resolution. One more time, I'll reset you. Initiating vote now. Whoever is in favour of the resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes the resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Item 43. Voting order number 59. 147 Members registered, for 49, against 88, abstained from the 10th. The result is that the resolution was rejected. So we have this point solved. We're going to move on to the next point, and that's... Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u66	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already heard last time from President Faltýnek, Mr Růžička is excused today. I consider it really not entirely right and reasonable for us to make decisions without his presence. I made it clear how I would behave. The recommendation of the mandate and immunity committee is clear, but I think it is right for him to be here, and I therefore recommend that we interrupt this point and discuss it when the accused Member is present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u67	Now, with priority right, I give the floor to the President of the membership club YES to Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u68	Thank you. I have the opposite opinion. I haven't spent the whole time in the room, but I haven't noticed that the Professor Svoboda, whom we have talked about and discussed here, would have stepped forward. I don't think he got off, so it's basically a similar case. Plus, I said he's sick, he's got a fever. I have his position here that I would like to read on his behalf when there is a chance. But I'm sure we're going to vote on the proposal, and for our club, we'd like to discuss this matter today, so we can get this over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-011-043.u69	I originally thought I'd open a point, and then I'd say there's an interruption proposal, and if there's no rejection proposal, then here's the suggestion that it should continue. I'll open this point.
