ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and amending certain laws (water law), as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 45/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Environment Richard Brabec will be mentioned. Please, Mr. Chairman, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was also here in the last parliamentary term, unfortunately it ended its promising life at the beginning at second reading and thus did not complete the legislative process. That's why I dare bring him here again. Let me briefly introduce the fundamental changes that are in this amendment and, at the same time, the reason for the submission. First of all, the amendment corrects the lack of implementation of the Water Framework Directive, which is Article 4.7, by anchoring a specific way of granting exemptions to the Water Authority in the event that the implementation of a specific plan will result in a deterioration in the state of the water body of surface or groundwater. This amendment responds to the current EU Pilot management, in which the European Commission accuses the Czech Republic that it is not entirely clear at which time the competent authorities are to apply Section 23a of the Water Act governing the water protection objectives, and this provision is precisely implemented by Article 4.7. The amendment therefore provides for a two-stage assessment of whether the intention is not to deteriorate the state of the water body concerned and, on the basis of the available documentation in the context of the issue of consent or binding opinion, the water body concerned will assess the possibility of deterioration in the intention of the water body concerned and, in the event of reasonable suspicion of deterioration in the water body concerned, the water body will then inform the applicant of the need to request an exemption from the deterioration. It has been so far that the Water Authority has also entered into this, so it is not a new provision, but it was far from clear how it should proceed on this matter. The next item is a significant restriction on administration in the field of fees. The amendment to the Water Act fulfils specific measures resulting from the so-called ecoaudit, where there is a significant restriction on the administration in the field of fees, when the amendment waives the obligation to submit fee reports for both types of charges. That's so-called cancellation of advances. Furthermore, the obligation to report data via the electronic reporting system was limited, so-called The ISPOP system, except for resources with permitted discharges of more than 6,000 ccs of waste water per calendar year, will be reflected in the reduction of administration in tens of thousands of small sources of pollution, which are mainly small municipalities and small domestic sewage treatment plants. In addition, the amendment specifies the definitions of waste water and provides for further provisions with a view to achieving greater protection of water quality, including clarification of the ways in which waste water is disposed of and accumulated in drain-free tanks. The possibility of discharge of waste water into groundwater for sets of buildings, such as part of the municipality, is also introduced in cases where this method is more appropriate in terms of water protection than discharge into surface waters. The possibility of limited discharge of waste water from sets of housing buildings will allow the construction of a central sewage treatment plant in some areas without suitable reception of surface water. Last but not least, it is also proposed to change the management of charges, when the amendment transfers the management of charges for the collected amount of groundwater and charges for discharges of waste water into surface waters from the Czech Environmental Inspection to the State Environmental Fund and to change the administration system from administrative to tax rules. In addition to simplifying the system that results from the application of the tax rules instead of the administrative order, and centralization of the whole process is also a positive feature of this solution to reduce the administrative burden of the Czech environmental inspection, which is and should, of course, primarily be a body of control. As I have already said, this law was already approved by the Government in 2015, subsequently submitted to the House, where at second reading, including the addition of several amendments which are obviously not the subject of this proposal, this proposal is identical to the proposal that went to the Government and to the House in 2016, with the fact that only legislative technical adjustments were incorporated, the need of which arose mainly as a result of the amendment of certain legislation, such as the Construction Act. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u3	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Karel Tureček. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u4	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would just like to clarify the Minister's introductory words when, in the last parliamentary term, the Committee on the Environment has already discussed this bill and recommended that the Chamber of Deputies be approved in the proposed text. In addition, this draft law was dealt with by an agricultural committee which adopted two amendments, namely Section 30 on the issue of zones - management in the sanitary protection of surface waters, and Section 67 on flood zones. Otherwise, it also recommended approval. I confirm that this bill is identical to the original proposal in the previous parliamentary term, and I further agree with the proposal of the Organising Committee that the Guarantee Committee should be the Committee on the Environment, and that this bill should also be discussed by the Agricultural Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u5	Thank you. Before I launch a general debate, I note that Vice-President Jan Hamáček apologizes from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting from 10 to 16 on account of his participation in the commemorative act. We can now proceed to the general debate that I am initiating. It is registered by Mr Jan Zahradník. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time in this meeting, I have spoken to the draft law, which actually went through the first reading in the last parliamentary term, has been discussed by the committee and has not been on the agenda for the second or third reading, so the law that is actually coming from the last parliamentary term. I agree with what the Minister said that the law needs to be discussed at a reasonable rate of speed, because once again, we are in danger of being sued for failure to comply with the treaty, or we could be affected by the infringement. What the minister said about cutting red tape is, of course, okay, it's true. So I would just like to mention some of the comments on the individual paragraphs gradually as they come in the law. In Section 7, relating to the use of surface water for navigation, paragraph 7 is replaced by the following: 3 defined special service facilities as part of the flow, part of the waterway, which are obliged to serve both in the supply of energy to vessels and in the pumping of waste water so that the water flow is not contaminated when pumping them. As the tourist cruise is growing significantly on our watercourses today, this measure is very necessary. [[12.10 hours]] I would like to make two comments on what the Minister referred to in the agreement of the Water Authority. It is therefore § 17. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in this Article. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) which states that the geological work associated with the intervention of the land, the purpose of which is the subsequent use of the research work for the construction and removal of groundwater or for drilling for the use of the energy potential of groundwater. There is to be said that there is currently no negligible number of people who use exploration wells permanently as water sources. That's just the way it is. So it's okay that the condition will be corrected and the exploration wells will be taken as reconnaissance wells, and so it will be recorded who then uses these wells for their needs as water sources. This will assure people that their well they use is indeed legal. It's possible there's going to be an increase in wells. In the same section, paragraph 17 is replaced by the following: 5 is referred to by the Minister referred to by the Ecoaudit, i.e. that the Water Authority will issue decisions. Here, of course, the position of the Water Authority is being refined and the procedure for asking for an exemption is defined, but the truth is that there is an increase in the next stage in the already very complex process of building approval, there is actually another complication. The amendment to the construction law, which was approved here in the last parliamentary term, we probably missed this thing, if I'm not mistaken, so in any further amendment or in the creation of another form of the construction law, it would certainly be good if all these proceedings were united. The question of accumulation of waste water in the pits and the obligation of owners of these pits to drain the water from the pits and clean it in the sewage treatment plant is of course okay. No one can, or should not, treat waste water differently. The question is whether sufficient waste water treatment plant capacity is built for this process. There are municipalities that do not have a cleaner and where this procedure is likely to raise certain problems, especially from the point of view of capacity. I also miss the proposal that the explanatory memorandum does not quantify the financial impact this obligation will have on the owners of the pits. Since these are mostly places, small settlements, small mansions, where people who do not have a great economic potential live, this increase in the cost of waste disposal can mean increased financial costs for them. I would also like to mention what is stated in the conclusion itself, i.e. change of recipient of different charges, i.e. Instead of the Czech Environmental Inspection, it will be the State Environmental Fund. I understand. I was actually a member of the SFŽP Steering Committee last time, so I know the problems. I know that over time, especially with the end of this programming period, when the Czech Republic may no longer be a beneficiary, but it will only be a full payer, it will be a reduction in revenue from European funds for this fund, and here it is possible that there is a way to correct the balance of revenue and expenditure for the State Environmental Fund. Then I would like to mention one quite important thing, which concerns § 88, where they are exempt from the levy collection, which according to the new text does not exceed the annual volume of 6 000 cubic meters. In the current wording of the law, there is such a certain difference in words. There's talk of taking underground water from one source, which is less than or equal to 6,000 cubic meters per year. In such a case, the customer shall not pay the charge for the collection of groundwater. The ministerial authorities have sometimes interpreted this very limit in the past so that one who has a collection of less than 6,000 cubic meters, which is about 150 houses, or 150 inhabitants I will say, not home, but 150 people, of course, those houses are less, does not apply, but once the collection exceeds 6,000 cubic meters, there was a requirement to pay a fee for the entire volume collected. The logic of the matter suggests that the limit should be up to 6,000 cubic meters without charge and what is beyond that will be charged, i.e. the difference of the quantity taken minus 6,000 cubic meters. That is, to pay the fees for 100 cubic meters. That's how I explain it. I will also try to talk about this with the Minister, the rapporteur on the committee, and maybe we can agree on an amendment that would clarify it, or that the Ministry and the Czech Inspections will look at it in a way that is simply understood in the logic of the matter, as I mentioned, from the point of view of the difference. I would just like to mention one more thing, which the Minister has passed away and mentioned by the rapporteur, and it is Section 67, a restriction in flood areas, namely a slightly secondary matter. Paragraph 2 states what is prohibited in an active flood zone. Among other things, it is forbidden to set up camps, camps and other temporary accommodation facilities, which is significantly related to those who build summer camps - Junák, various tourist sections that cause problems. During the last committee discussion, we agreed with the then Deputy Minister and also the rapporteur, who interpreted the opinion of the Agricultural Committee, that we would adjust the paragraph so that it would be possible to remove from this ban temporary tent camps consisting only of tents and accessories that can be immediately removed in the event of a flood risk, that is, what we all know in the Scout's camp - tents, some food from the celt, from tents that can be disposed of when the flood is approaching. Alternatively, to incarnate these restrictions, this exception, of § 67 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Maybe if the deal was pretty clear here, it could have been written in the wording of the law, and it would have been okay, it would have been a room. This is how it comes about again - I will be careful with the committee to take care, where appropriate, that the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, as far as it is concerned, to accept the situation and the situation for the organizers of children's camps. So, ladies and gentlemen, we support the release for second reading, and then, of course, at second reading, I will try to agree somehow to put forward amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u7	Thank you. Mr Holomčík is also entered into the general debate. I would just like to point out that at 12.30 we are firmly assigned points 27 et seq. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. The attitude of the pirate club is to release this law into second reading and, as part of the second reading, we would like to place a point on the amendment of § 28, which concerns the protection of areas of natural water accumulation. I would like to ask you, who would like to address the area of water protection here, through Mr President, to join us and we can work together on this. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u9	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? This is the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u10	Mr President, in view of the implementation nature of this amendment, and given the fact that this draft bill of living has been discussed without comment in the Committee on the Environment, I recommend that the deadline be reduced to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-003-013.u11	Thank you. Is there another application for a general debate? If it is not, I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Would anyone please suggest the commandment to another committee as a committee of guarantee? If not, we will proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 51, 155 Members signed in for 130, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Agricultural Committee as a further committee. We'll vote on it. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as the next committee? Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 52, 159 Members registered, for 147, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the next committee to which this proposal has been ordered for discussion is the Agricultural Committee. There was still a proposal in the debate to shorten the deadline for discussion of 30 days. Isn't that right, rapporteur? So we will also vote on this proposal to shorten for 30 days. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with this proposal to shorten, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 53, registered as 159 Members, for 85, against 48. The motion was accepted. I state that we are ending the first reading of the present law. We are now in a situation where we should discuss paragraphs 14, 15, 16 and 17, but we cannot discuss them because the appellant is missing. The Government has been entrusted with the presentation of the proposal submitted by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who is not present. As I have already stated, this situation concerns points 14, 15, 16 and 17. It does not concern paragraph 18, which the Minister will state, so we can begin this point. Initiating item discussion
