ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 203/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Jan Hamáček, Vice-President of the Government and Interior Minister, will state the bill. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, let me briefly remind you of the main objectives of the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners and other related laws. The main impetus to the preparation of this amendment was the obligation of the Czech Republic to transpose a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for research and study purposes. This directive replaces two older directives which dealt with the same issue. Therefore, our legal order is already in line with most of the requirements of this new directive and the situation of foreigners staying here for the purpose of scientific research or study is now being facilitated. With this proposal, the government is also responding to the current situation in the area of migration for the purpose of carrying out economic activity. Employers point to a shortage of workers and demand an increased supply of foreign labour, thus increasing the number of applications for residence permits. The Czech Republic has limited capacity at its offices and is therefore unable to meet this increase in applications effectively. At the same time, the Czech Republic has no direct option to influence which country and in what number these workers will be coming from. The government's aim is therefore to regulate and, in particular, to manage migration responsibly for the purpose of carrying out economic activity, depending on the expected development of the economic cycle, the needs of the labour market, as well as on the country of origin of foreigners. The proposal therefore contains two instruments for how the government can achieve this goal. The Government will be entitled to determine for a particular country the maximum number of long-stay visa applications submitted for business, residence permits for investment and employee cards. Following the needs of the labour market and the Czech Republic, the government will, for example, be able to establish that in Ukraine, the most x thousand employee card applications can be submitted in one calendar year. This number will be publicly known and will be adapted to the capacity of the public authorities. This concept is already being applied in the regime of Ukraine and in the project of Ukraine. The second instrument of government will then be the possibility of issuing exceptional work visas in specific sectors in the event of a shortage of workers in the labour market. The government will be able to determine the countries of origin of foreigners, the economic sector or profession and the number of incoming foreigners and the holders of this exceptional work visa will stay in the Czech Republic for a maximum period of one year. The operation of these two new instruments has been a major concern and debate on all three committees to which this proposal was assigned, although the amendment also contains other important conceptual changes, for example in the area of integration. I believe that the members of these committees have been sufficiently presented both the main principles of these new institutes and, in particular, their contribution. On this occasion, I would like to thank all three committees for their cooperation and their support for the government's proposal as a whole. The amendments of the various committees will be presented subsequently by the relevant rapporteurs. At this point, I would simply like to summarize that the petitioner can support all the amendments of the Committee on Foreign and Economic Affairs and, in the case of the Committee on Security's proposals, the position of the petitioner is neutral and negative in one case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u3	Thank you, too. The proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Foreign Committee and the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 203/1 to 7. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Security, Mr Radovan Vích, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the Committee's proposals and justify any amendments. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u4	Hello, good afternoon. Mr President, honourable Members, Members of the Government, first of all, I will recapitulate quickly what is going on in the proposal, although, in principle, the appellant has already said the essential thing here. The proposal integrates the European Directive 2016/801 into the Czech rule of law, which deals with granting the right of entry and residence of foreigners into the Member States of the European Union, i.e. also in the Czech Republic, for the following reasons: research, study, internship, volunteer service and so on. The deadline for bringing the directive into our legal order has already passed. The proposal also contains other parts that are not so-called transpositional, such as the introduction of quotas for economic migration according to the current needs of states and employers, as well as the issue of centres to support the integration of foreigners still funded by European funds. These centres, given the fundamental changes in the European Union's budget, should continue to be financed from the Czech state budget. Funding from the Czech budget will enable the use of these centres to address current security risk prevention problems. It is also appropriate to ask what foreigners, in what quantity and sector or profession the government of the Czech Republic wants to employ in the territory of our state, whether they will be agency workers or more qualified workers. The proposal was directed to three committees, the Security Committee as a committee of guarantee, the Committee of the Foreign and Economic Committee. All three committees have taken up their duties and adopted a motion for a resolution. Since the matter has been discussed by these three committees, many of you already know the proposal and focus on it. This is an important law and I ask that you continue to pay attention to it. The adopted resolutions of committees, especially the Committee on Security, propose to further extend the text of the amendment and try to incorporate into the text of the law solutions to some warning knowledge from practice, where, thanks to its current wording, the law is abused against the interests of the Czech Republic by persons who are undesirable in our country. The proposals aim to increase fines in administrative proceedings and to extend the number of decisions for which a judicial review is excluded to a decision on administrative expulsion. I note that the findings from practice are very disturbing, and therefore the majority opinion in the Committee on Security was such that the proposed amendments should be adopted despite, for example, the opposition of the academic legal sphere. Unfortunately, this sometimes impresses me that the effective form of the Act on the residence of foreigners and its effective application is mainly hindered by us. On the contrary, what I would strongly warn about is any loosening up of the foreign regime. I am saying this here knowingly from the position of rapporteur, because I know that there are such efforts. On this side, I add that the resolution of the Security Committee with amendments is a House press of 203/7. I also know that there are other amendments in the system. It will then be on the Security Committee as on the Guarantee Committee to renegotiate the matter and adopt appropriate recommendations for the third reading of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u5	Thank you, too. And now I ask that the foreign committee rapporteur, Mr Vít Rakušan, take the floor, inform us of the committee proposal and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u6	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, very briefly from the foreign committee, which was therefore designated by another committee which dealt with the law. The Government's Bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, the Foreign Committee adopted the following resolution: firstly, recommends Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Government bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, approve as amended by amendments. The amendments have been delivered to all of you as House press 203/4. In a detailed debate, I think that their individual appellants will comment on their particular importance and their wording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u7	Thank you, too. And now I ask that Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský, the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, take the floor, inform us of the committee's discussion and justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear representatives of the Government, dear colleagues, the Economic Committee adopted two amendments to this bill. The first allows the regional branch of the Labour Office to shorten the period of the so-called labour market test from 30 to 10 days. On the basis of the second amendment adopted, the police, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, representative offices will receive access to the registration of employment permits issued by the Regional Branch of the Labour Office, for the purposes of control, or permission to enter and reside foreigners. [[13.40 hours]] Economic Committee Resolution 119 of the 21st meeting of 21 November 2018 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House press 203, reads: Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of the first Deputy Minister of the Interior Jiří Nováček and my intelligence report and following the general debate: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House Press 203 in the text of the approved amendments - a summary of which I have already mentioned and, as regards their precise wording, I would like to refer to the House Press 203/6, which has been electronically delivered to you; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee; and IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u9	Thank you, too. Therefore, I can now open a general debate in which three Members are enrolled. He is Mr Bžoch, Mr Kopřiva and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. I ask Mr Bžoch to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you my four amendments to the Government Bill amending Law No 1 on the amendment of the law. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House print 203. All my amendments are more of a technical nature and I firmly believe that I will receive support from you. The first amendment concerns an exceptional working visa and is merely an extension of the original text by a new paragraph. The main principle of an exceptional work visa is circular migration, which is intended to cover the workforce in the event of their lack in certain specific sectors. It does not intend to serve as a settling type of stay, therefore this proposal emphasises the exceptionalness of the establishment's launch in inserted words. A foreigner who is interested in working in the Czech Republic will have a choice whether to apply for an employee card. settling or exceptional work visa. At the same time, he will know in advance the conditions of his stay on an exceptional work visa. The next amendment concerns adaptational integration courses. The first is when, for reasons worthy of special consideration, the Ministry may waive the obligation laid down in paragraph 2 of the Act. This is because the proposed legal state does not think about situations where it will be impossible for foreigners to take an adaptation course in practice. This situation may occur in particular if a foreigner, due to physical disability, is prevented from attending or understanding the course, such as deafness and blindness, or an adverse state of health, such as risky pregnancy, hospitalization and the like, or if the course cannot be organised to the appropriate extent and geographical coverage. The next item of this amendment is actually an adjustment to how and to whom the integration rate will be paid. This proposed change will contribute to the effectiveness of the system to register foreigners in adaptation integration courses. The administration responsible for covering the costs of participating in the adaptation integration course instead of the centres to support the integration of foreigners will be borne by the State. The activities of centres to support the integration of foreigners will be covered by subsidies. The next item of this amendment is also a delay in effectiveness. The delay in effectiveness will lead to an extension of the deadline for the whole Institute to adapt integration courses into practice. It is proposed to divide the moment of entry into force of the provisions on the establishment of centres in support of the integration of foreigners and the start of the implementation of compulsory adaptation courses. The newly created centres will thus be able to prepare for the adaptation of integration courses. The next amendment concerns clarification of when the application for a work visa and card will be unacceptable. With regard to this amendment, it can simply be said that it is to make the work of the competent authorities more effective in dealing with the applications received. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to take account of the existence of government approved programmes in order to achieve economic or other significant benefits for the Czech Republic in order to determine the maximum number of visa applications submitted for stays over 90 days for business purposes and employee card purposes. These are currently government-approved programmes, which represent both the regimes of Ukraine, Serbia, Mongolia and the Philippines, and, on the one hand, the projects of Ukraine, India. These are special treatment schemes and projects for certain groups of employees, such as highly qualified employees, which have been created to achieve time savings in receiving and processing visa applications for stays over 90 days for business purposes and for employee cards. The last amendment is a proposal supplementing and specifying who the legal representative is. The proposed legislation aims to facilitate access of minors to the administrative authority by explicitly establishing that the personal presence of a minor applicant for the purpose of lodging a residence application is also met by a person who personally cares for a minor applicant in the territory of the State of which he is a minor, as a legal representative who is the best known child's circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u11	I also thank you, and I now ask Mr Kopřiva, who is next entered into the general debate to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my contribution, I will apologise for the slight lack of voice, so I will reduce my reasoning for the two amendments. However, I will allow myself to justify them briefly. The first amendment concerns administrative fees, where the amendment in Section 9 of Article 10 raises, on several points, disproportionately and unfoundedly, certain administrative charges affecting foreigners during residence and related proceedings, introduces new fees or combines administrative fees for lodging an application and issuing a licence, thereby substantially increasing the costs of non-refundable even if the application is rejected. The proposed amendment therefore repeals or amends the increase or introduction of administrative charges and repeals the merger of application fees and its processing. The amendment of the proposed amendments was added to the law only after the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, i.e. without proper discussion, and their justification is not properly justified in the explanatory memorandum. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The proposed point one leaves the distribution of administrative fees for applications for residence permits to the application fee and the issue of the licence itself. The proposed item repeals the amendment introduced a fee of EUR 60 for the application for a re-assessment of reasons for not issuing a visa. [[two]] The proposed point three repeals the introduced fee of CZK 1,000 for processing the order for the appointment of a personal application for a long-term visa and a long-term stay. Suggested point four, then item 162 point And it maintains the distribution of the administrative fee for accepting an application for long-term residence and for issuing a licence and unites its amount with applications made on the territory in point C, reducing the disproportionate increase for accepting an application for an employee or blue card instead of five times today's amount, that is instead of CZK 1,000 to CZK 5,000, and so on. The whole justification is part of my amendment. [[Strong noise in the hall, MEPs are already packing things up and discussing loudly.]] The second amendment concerns the form of documents, where a new requirement is laid down for all applicants who come into contact with the representative office abroad, so that the particulars of applications are presented only in paper form in person or through local mail. Such a requirement is disproportionate, significantly slows down all administrative procedures, weighs down both the representative offices and the applicants themselves, and this significantly slows down all administrative procedures, weighs down both the representative offices and the applicants themselves, in person or through local mail. Changes in administrative proceedings before representative offices are justified by the appellant in particular by a response to the case law of administrative courts, including an assessment of the application of the Alien Residence Act, in the case of effective and lawful submission of applications for residence permits, as well as the need to establish a transparent way of submitting applications at representative offices. However, the proposed regulation actually circumvents the case-law of the Supreme Administrative Court and puts a burden on proceedings before the representative authorities on requirements that go completely against the development of modern technologies and eGovernment strategies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u13	Ambassador, I must interrupt you. I would like to call on my colleagues in the hall to remain calm, possibly to transfer their calls or entertainment outside the hall. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u14	The proposal also contradicts the Czech Government's programme statement of 27 June this year, respectively. with a priority of digitisation of public administration. According to this statement - I quote: In order to speed up the development of digital services in the public sector, it is necessary to map all legislation that contains possible barriers to the successful implementation of digital technologies, while continuously monitoring that barriers to further or new technologies do not appear in newly adopted legislation, etc. It remains unclear whether the effects of the proposal in this regard have been assessed at all. So, in view of the above, in the area of proceedings before the representative offices, it is necessary to return to a zero option, i.e. the removal of the above points from the government proposal. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u15	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mrs Gajdůškovášková, who is another member of the debate. Looks like the House has calmed down a little bit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u16	Mr President, Minister, Honourable House, I will try to be very short, because time is fading. I would like to say that I am very much in favour of this bill, particularly in the part which makes it clear, facilitates the conditions for employment and residence of foreigners in the field of science and research. The universities really need this very much, and our research workplaces, if we want to be worldly. But we hear from the companies that they're not human. I think it is important that we do not have people in companies, that there are people in organizations, that is, people at work, that we also look at groups of citizens of the Czech Republic who would like to work and for some reason cannot. Or it's not convenient for them. Those three large groups are both mothers with young children after two years of reaching the age of a child. Another large group are people who for some reason retired early, and the reason has passed. And the third group are people with disabilities. If you don't mind, I'll be focusing on the third group at the moment, people with disabilities, for whom it is that they can go into employment, not only important economically, but it is especially important for these people from the point of view of their feelings of life, feeling of need, feeling of self-realization. And that is why the state supports the employment of people with disabilities. However, the government's regulation will change the minimum wage from CZK 12,200 to CZK 13,350 per month. It is also a positive step from the point of view of employing people with disabilities in the protected labour market. On the other hand, it is also the fact that within this protected labour market, companies which, by employing people with disabilities, fulfil the other role that I was talking about, that they give those people the opportunity to self-realize, to exercise, but their productivity does not ensure that those firms are effective enough to really exist as employers. Therefore, these employers, who employ people with disabilities, are provided a contribution by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. It should be said, however, that in the last three years, employers who employ people with disabilities have increased their cost by CZK 4,200 as a result of the increase in minimum wages. However, this is not covered by a contribution to the employment of people with disabilities. It is therefore a serious concern that, if the employment allowance for such persons is not increased to companies, they are mostly invalid cooperatives, consumer cooperatives, production cooperatives or other forms, these employers may simply cease their activities. This would not be desirable either from the point of view of people with disabilities, but also from the point of view of society. Therefore, in a detailed debate, I will then sign up to the amendment proposing an increase in the contribution of disabled persons pursuant to § 67 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) or (b) the Employment Act of CZK 800 to date. [[Members leave the hall, remaining loudly noisy.]] The written justification for this proposal includes transitional provisions and, of course, efficiency so as to take place from the first quarter of 2019. The anticipated cost of this proposal is expected, depending on how it will be used by the employer, of 557 million. CZK annually if applied to all persons in full employment. If it were a part-time translation, this cost would be 336 million. per year. I will then ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u17	Thank you and I would like to ask the Members who are leaving us to do so quietly! Now, please, the last person to sign up for the general debate, Mr Čižinský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the amendment, as has been said here, by Mr Radek Koten, who, in my opinion and in the opinion of everyone else, is unconstitutional. In the Minister's opinion. I just want to ask or ask to be able to vote on him, so he doesn't pass, so it's not in some kind of package. So it doesn't come out of committee in cash, which wouldn't be possible to throw him out. But then I would still have a question, through Mr President, on the Minister for an extraordinary work visa, because according to my information, this did not go through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings or the Government's Legislative Council. And so I want to make it clear whether it's true or not, and why it did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u19	Thank you for this brief speech in the debate. Now, with Mr Koten's factual remark, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u20	Hello, again. I would very much like to respond to Mr Čižinský's speech through the President. I hope that constitutionality or unconstitutionality will be decided by the Constitutional Court. I don't know what this proposal is so unconstitutional about. I think there should be laws in this republic that will help our security forces in good time to be able to expel a terrorist or a person from this country who will act against the interests of this state. If we protect these people here, we'll have them here for the next 90 days, saying that we'll have absolutely no knowledge of them, and they can continue to make us happy about subversive activity or terrorist attacks. So much for that, I guess. And the other thing is that there are different exceptions that the Constitutional Court has, so I hope it will also be in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u21	Thank you, and now I'm going to ask the Minister if he's interested in a factual remark. Looks like it's not. In that case, with a factual remark, Mr Kopřiva, then Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask my previous speaker, by your means, why is there a systemic interruption in the possibility of judicial review in this particular case and whether he has any analysis justifying this amendment. Analysis that would show that the proposal does not conflict with Article 36 of the Czech Constitution, respectively. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as well as the Return Directive of the European Union. I'd like to ask for these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u23	Thank you. And I would like to call on the House to remain calm. I would like to point out that under the Rules of Procedure it is possible to act today within 21 hours. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Golasowská. The actual comment was probably withdrawn, so the minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u24	I only respond to Mr Čižinský. Of course, the law went through the interdepartment - if Mr. Čižinský listens to me. The law has passed the interdepartment. If you're referring to the work visas, it wasn't discussed in the interdepartment. However, the government was informed of this by all ministers and no one, no resort, made a comment against. That means all the departments have agreed that this measure is okay. So the law passed the interdepartment, and the extraordinary work visa was discussed in the government, and no one opposed it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u25	Thank you. And now, with the de facto remark of Mr Čižinský, that we may have exhausted the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u26	Thank you, thank you. So I know people who complain that they couldn't comment on this, from the Legislative Council of the Government, because that is why we have the Legislative Council of the Government. I have yet to comment on Mr Koten through Mr President. This isn't about anyone trying to block the exorcism of terrorists. If anyone's a terrorist, they're in prison and all that. But the point is that the reviewability of any decision where family members may be expelled, as well as the success of those judicial reviews and the results of those judicial reviews actually tell us from experience that we need to banish correctly and take all facts into account. The most common elimination is the family bond that this person has some relatives here, and that's why it's canceled. That's why this court review is important. So that a person who has some family ties here and maybe doesn't make time by a day, so that his life just doesn't get torn down by the fact that he hasn't had a time limit just a day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u27	Thank you. And Mr Koten has yet to make a point of fact. So if that's what it takes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u28	I would like to respond once again to my previous speaker through Mr President. It is certainly not the case that someone who will be given a visa for one day will be ruthlessly expelled and family ties will be cut off. It is here mainly because none of our secret services can bring their resources into the judicial protocols because it would put them at risk, and that is one of the reasons why the percentage of those people who undergo the judicial review is why they remain here as terrorists or as people who harm our republic. And that's why. That's why. It is certainly not directed against decent people who will defect one day or cross some visa for a stay in our Republic, but it is precisely for this reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-006-011.u29	Thank you. Since I have yet to receive an updated application to the general debate, since we have exhausted the time we normally have for today's negotiations, I will interrupt this point in the general debate. And today's meeting will also be adjourned until Tuesday, two o'clock, when we continue, where the items from the first reading block are included. Thank you. Have a nice weekend.
