ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-007-022.u1	22. Members Jana Pastuchová's proposal, Válková Válkova, Radka Maxová, Patrik Nacher, David Kasal, Karel Rais, Rostislav Vyzula, Martin Kolovratník and Jaroslav Bžoch on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 89/ - first reading I remind you that Mrs Pastuchová is the applicant's representative, and the rapporteur is Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. I ask both of the Members if they are interested in the final word. Yes, so for the plaintiff, Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-007-022.u2	Thank you. I was taking notes. Through you, Mr President, to a fellow Sklenák. I am not ashamed to mention the amendment in the last parliamentary term. And I'm not ashamed that I'm trying to make it right now. But political points, I don't know how I could watch if I didn't even know if I was gonna sit in the Chamber of Deputies right now and be able to fix something. And I don't want to be like you, but I will. I've had material distress in the past period four times as a reporter either at the club or here. And you, of all people, put in an ugly amendment, like we're gonna pay back in holiday homes with permanent residence. So we didn't like that either. And now for the debate itself. I actually made this amendment based on the fact that when I was the four-time rapporteur for this press, I went to the employment office to sit down a few times and look from a distance at who was running for those benefits. And then I talked to the employees. The employees told me to do something about it, because the third generation of families come here and they don't learn how to work, but how to take advantage of all the benefits. And I say it's not perfect, but at least we started. And I'm so glad that we started this and that it came back and that the error turned out because you can see what it's like to talk about and how the welfare system is set up wrong here. We talked about this in the last parliamentary term, and nothing was done to make any difference. I have to say again, as my colleague Aulická said, welfare for a living should not replace other benefits. These were welfare benefits. As the fellow starosta said, through Mr Rakušan, I agree. And by that I'll also tell my colleague Bláh that I am not to have paper food stamps. Why are we printing them? I'm a paramedic, and they tell me they're already getting it, the employer's gonna charge them with electronic cards, and they don't have paper cards anymore. I agree. Let's deal with it this way. Benefits. Labor authorities had a chance, but they didn't have to, 35 percent. So that already exists here. But there was no discussion about it here at all. I don't have a percentage figured out how many of those benefits were paid out by the labor authorities when they could. But they had to prove why they were paying the benefits. And if you've been to those employment offices, some clients, not all of them to touch someone, because I'm not ashamed that I've been to the employment office for six months, so I know how it looks, they yell at the workers, they're rude to them, they're uncomfortable, so maybe they were afraid to give somebody the food stamps back then. For a colleague of Bláha, who is not here, I answered by your means. Food stamps and their press. Anyway, we'd have to cancel meal vouchers for all employees now as bonuses, and then I don't know what we'd give those employees. I agree that the asylum houses and everything have appeared there. And I'd love to, and I'm begging you to let it go to second reading. Indeed, as we discussed in the last press of Mrs Pekarová's colleague Adamová, one problem has opened up and this is another problem. And it opens up to us, and I think it deserves a thorough discussion and a solution. But I'm saying, I'm not ashamed that I filed it, and at least we started dealing with the abuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-007-022.u3	Thank you. The rapporteur's final words. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-007-022.u4	Thank you for the floor. All I do today is tuck that step in. [[With a smile.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Allow me to respond to my fellow plaintiff. I would like to say that, even in the past practice, the possibility of assigning vouchers of a certain amount has also been linked within the possible level of appeal, because, as it turns out in practice, the appeal to the decision of the employment office is powerful, and we can de facto speak that most or most of it has always been a positive position, so the appeal has been approved and the client has received his initiatives back. I don't think I'm gonna say that at what level. Anyway, let me just say that I am glad that I think about this and the second amendment, too, was a good discussion, that it did not go into conflict and that we can continue to discuss on the Social Policy Committee beyond the idea of how much support should be given to certain parts of each amendment, and I will be glad to have a substantive debate. I believe that we will come to a good and good proposal together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-007-022.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in the merged debate, there was no proposal to rebut or reject the proposal, so we will now consider the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. Before all those interested in taking part in the vote come, I will introduce you to the fact that Mr Peksa has asked for an apology from today's meeting at 13:00. I've called in Members and Members from the lobby. We will now vote on the fact that the Organising Committee has proposed to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. But I'm still asking if there's any other proposal for another committee to be a committee of guarantee. There is no such proposal, so we can proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 63, 163 Members signed in for 146, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that the Committee on Social Policy is the Guarantee Committee to discuss this proposal. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee for discussion. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee to discuss this proposal? There was no such thing. There has not been a proposal in the debate to adjust the deadline, so I am ending the discussion on this point. Opening re-interrupted point number
