ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-014-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. The meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 55 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Thursday, May 24th of this year. I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Apologies for today's meeting were requested by the following Members: Petr Beitl for personal reasons, Jan Birke for work reasons, Pavel Blažek for no reason, Marian Bojko for health Ondřej, Lukáš Profantý for the 14th meeting for personal Okleštěk, Petr Sadovský for 10 hours for work Vrána, Jaroslav Dvořák for 11 hours for work reasons, Jan Farský for 10 hours for work Helena, Petr Gazdík for family Válková, Tereza Hyťhová for 14.30 for health Levová, Mauritzová Chovanec for health reasons, Oborná Jarošová for health Jakub, Martin Jiránek for 10 hours for work Michálek, Mašek Kobza from 14 hours to 19 hours for work reasons, Martin Kolovratník for 11 hours for work reasons, Barbora Kořanová from 11.30 to 19 hours for work Vyzula, from 11.30 to 19 hours for work Rostislav, Kováčik Okamura for work Richter, Jan Kozlová for personal Volný, Jana Krutáková Of the members of the government apologizes Andrej Babiš for working reasons, Tomáš Hüner for working reasons, Jiří Milek for working reasons, Robert Pelikán until 14.30 for working reasons, Robert Plaga until 14.30 for working reasons, Karla Šlechtová for working reasons, Adam Vojtěch within 14 hours for working reasons. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Krutáková and Mr Jiří Valenta. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone. We can therefore proceed to the vote. However, at this point, I note that the House is not capable of quorum, only 34 Members are enrolled. [[He's waiting for a while.]] Once again, I will ask the Members to sign up with their cards. [[Other Members do not sign up, the number of entries has only increased to 39. From the left we hear voices: We learn from you.]] Since thevorum is far from being filled - we will wait a little longer. In that case, all I have to do is interrupt this meeting indefinitely until there is some agreement between the members of the parliamentary clubs, which is what I am doing here. [[Mr Bartošek is approaching the microphone.]] President Bartošek with priority rights. No, no, no, I interrupted. In that case, the meeting is adjourned indefinitely and I will ask for a break of up to 9.20 so that we can set up the equipment and we can continue the 13th meeting.
