ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-004-074.u1	74. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies On the bench, you have been handed over by the electoral commission resolution number 83 and 84 of 26 and 27 June 2018. And I am giving the floor to the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-004-074.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I wish you, colleagues and colleagues in the mildly thin Thursdays, a nice day. I'll give you a few election points. The first electoral point, de facto traditional changes in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, will be voted by public acclamation. After a brief performance, we will move to the State Acts to conduct secret elections. As I said, paragraph 74, which Mr President initiated, is a proposal for changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. We finally adopted two per rollam resolutions on this at the Election Commission. The first was number 83 of June 26, 2018, and since at the beginning of this week, some members asked me for a second deadline so that even in connection with government changes they could complete their personnel exchanges, so we made one more deadline, one deadline, and then we adopted the second resolution per rollam number 84 of 27. 6. 2018. I will introduce you very briefly to the contents of these resolutions. And if you agree, we also agreed on the electoral committee, we would have made it very simple to vote that we would have confirmed with one vote en bloc resignation from both resolutions and the other en bloc nominations from both resolutions as well. This is because there is no conflict and there are always exchanges within the individual clubs in accordance with the kvora which belongs to them. In the first resolution, there was only one exchange within the ANO club. Radka Maxová, resignation on the permanent committee for family and equal opportunities, then to the same commission nomination of the new Mrs Monika Červíčková. As well as the ANO movement nominates Monika Červíčková to the constitutional law committee. Then, in the second resolution, we accepted the resignation of Mikuláš Ferjenčík from the Permanent Commission for the Control of GIBS as pirát. At the same position, the pirát nominate their colleague Tomáš Vymazal. And, as I mentioned in the context of government changes, there are vacant posts in the Social Democracy Club. So in the second resolution, he nominates social democracy to the Jan Birke Agricultural Committee, to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Lubomír Zaorálek and to the Permanent Delegation of Parliament to NATO by the Member and Chairman of the Jan Chvojka Club. As I have announced, I recommend for the electoral committee, I propose a public vote. If you agree to en bloc with one vote to confirm the two resignations, then second vote to confirm nominations. Now, Mr President, I ask you to open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-004-074.u3	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I am opening the debate on this point. I see no one reporting to the debate, so I am ending the debate. We will now vote as proposed by the President of the Election Commission, which means that at this point we will vote on resignations, as you have been familiar with them here. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 48. 149 Members registered, 124, so we agreed to the proposed resignations. We will now vote on the election of the newly proposed members of the various committees and committees, as the President of the Election Commission has introduced you to them. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49. 149 Members registered for 126, so the proposed colleagues and colleagues were elected. That concludes the discussion of this point and opens the point
