ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on public health insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German press 199/ - First reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 It is proposed that we proceed in accordance with § 90 para. 2, this means that we proceed for approval at first reading. The Government's proposal will be made by the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, on behalf of the Government, and Mr Kamal Farhan is already the rapporteur at the rapporteur's table, so the Minister of Health can take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore make a proposal for an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. This proposal responds to the founding of the Constitutional Court last year, the file mark Pl. ÚS 3/15. This relatively key finding of the Constitutional Court was abolished by the provisions of the Public Health Insurance Act, which determined the insured person's entitlement to reimbursement of medical devices in such a way that the claim is laid down in the implementation of the least economically demanding which the health insurance undertaking detects by market research. In principle, the Constitutional Court found in this finding the provision in question unconstitutional, not transparent, difficult to predict for the patient, with the lack of a clearly defined claim in the law, as required by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - Art. 31. As a result of this finding, the relevant provisions will be repealed on 1 January 2019 and Annex No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the Programme. [[17.20 hours]] Therefore, should no substitute legislation be adopted, this would mean that the vast majority of the medical devices concerned would be issued only with the participation of the insured person of 25 per cent of the price of the medical device. This would, of course, mean a very significant deterioration in the current state for insured persons in particular. Of course, there would also be chaos in the inclusion of new products in payments, because it would not be clear what the rules are. Existing medical devices would be significantly more expensive as a result of the apostasy of the relevance of price limits. The overall impact estimate for the public health insurance scheme is up to 2 billion. Crowns. At present, insurance companies pay medical means for a voucher of about 6 billion. That is, if we did nothing and only let the current legislation be repealed with the fact that the Constitutional Court clearly stated in that finding that by the end of the year the legislator must adopt new rules, otherwise from 1. 1. 2019 just won't be the rules in the law anymore. The proposal we made at the Ministry of Health is the result of many consultations with the professional and lay public. These preparations were attended by a number of stakeholders, be it the State Institute for Drug Control, the Czech Medical Chamber, the Medical Chamber, the Stomatological Chamber, as well as representatives of patients, in particular the Patient Council, the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, the Union of Employers and others. I think that the proposal has undergone a very comprehensive expert discussion, both with medical experts and with patients' representatives. So it's very much discussed. In the context of these discussions, consensus has been reached as regards the categorization of individual groups of medical devices so that the resulting form for the public health insurance system is financially viable, while at the same time being able to meet as many needs as possible for insured persons. The proposal therefore contains not only a new and updated list of medical devices, in which individual... or for individual payment groups payment limits and other terms of payment are set, but also other tools to respond to the current situation on the market of medical devices. In addition to the law, every month the State Institute for Drug Control will publish a list of the medical devices covered by the voucher. Thus, the insured person will always learn transparently what the amount of payment is for the individual... how much remuneration is set for individual variants of medical devices, which is a very significant shift compared to the current situation, which is why, in principle, the Constitutional Court abolished the legislation as completely non-transparable. The whole system is prepared to be as least administratively demanding as possible. The entry of the medical device into the payment system will be done only by the notification of the notifier, i.e. the manufacturer in principle of the medical device, to the appropriate payment group, as set up by the categorization tree, i.e. without administrative management. It should be noted that there are tens of thousands of medical devices, somewhere around 50,000, and it is therefore unrealistic for administrative proceedings to be conducted on each individual medical device. This would, in principle, lead to the collapse of the institution which would lead to this administrative procedure. So we didn't go this way, but we're actually going the way of his announcement, and the administrative procedure would only be conducted if the inclusion of the medical device was called into question, which will be obvious, because, as I said, every month the list of medical devices will actually be published. So if there's any questioning, then there'll be administrative proceedings at the State Institute for Drug Control. Contrary to the current legal relationship, where the legal order did not set out anything about how a health insurance undertaking should conduct market research, although the amount of remuneration for a particular medical device depends on it, the proposal in accordance with Art. 31 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which defines, in principle, the insured person's entitlement to care from public health insurance, clearly defines our proposal under which conditions the insured person is entitled to the medical devices concerned covered by public health insurance. In the end, the proposed legislation will allow full remuneration of a larger spectrum of medical devices than it has been so far. This is very important information especially for patients, because, as the proposal is prepared, a much wider range of medical devices will be covered than before. And we assume that the overall participation of the patient will decrease by hundreds of millions of crowns compared to the current state. The proposal is submitted with a request that the Chamber of Deputies be approved at first reading. In view of the above finding by the Constitutional Court, the legislation submitted must take effect on 1 January 2019. That's an inexhaustible term. The preparation of this amendment, which we started to prepare after my arrival at the Ministry of Health, was due to the discussion of all the items of the categorization tree with all the stakeholder I talked about, with whom we tried to find agreement on the wording of the proposal, which was not entirely easy, required more time to give all the addressees of this legal standard sufficient time to prepare for its effects. I consider it fair to try to make the law come out in the Collection of Laws as soon as possible. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal tabled is therefore a response to the Constitutional Court's finding. Without this proposal, the vast majority of voucher medical devices would be issued only with the participation of an insured person of 25 per cent of the price of the medical device. In order to prevent this from happening, we should set clear transparent rules which will be in line with the Constitutional Court's finding, in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, with the constitutional claim of the insured person, so please support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u3	Thank you, Minister of Health, for introducing this proposal. And I will request the floor of the rapporteur for Mr Kamal Farhan's first reading. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to report to you on the Government's bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended. Allow me, then, to present a news report on the draft amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. The amendment in question is not the first attempt to correct the pitiful state of payment regulation of medical devices. The fact that the current system is unpredictable, not transparent, is known for about ten years. Such a long time ago, fundamental problems were clearly named. After that, several initiatives were taken at the Ministry of Health for the necessary correction. The so-called legislative process was the furthest it got in the legislative process. House press 88, which entered the Chamber of Deputies twice, but in the first case could not be approved as a result of the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, in the second case it was withdrawn from the Ministry. In 2015, a completely different concept was developed, copying the payment regulation of medicinal products. In view of the clearness, inability and absence of the necessary inputs, this proposal did not go further than in the internal review procedure. [[17.30 hours]] After that, the Health Ministry will use the word "sleeping" and nothing has been worked out in the face of repeated calls from the House Committee on Health. This was not worked on until the Constitutional Court found, as mentioned here, 3/15 of May 2017. The Ministry then declared that it would prepare the necessary amendment, but the new concept was not created within the first six months. Following the arrival of the current Minister of Health, a working group on categorization and payment regulation was established, to which representatives of the State Institute for Drug Control, Health Insurance companies, professional companies, patient organisations, professional chambers and industrial associations were invited. After it was largely - and I want to emphasise this - agreed the concept of new legislation across the professional public, it was subsequently introduced to the members of the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as members of the Senate Committee on Health and Social Policy. Since we have not raised any systemic reservations as legislators, the concept has been considered consensual by the Ministry and has been brought to the processing of paragrafo. Standard internal review procedure followed, inter-ministerial comment procedure as well as discussion in the Committees of the Legislative Council of the Government. 6 days. 6. 2018 Government approved the amendment. I would like to emphasise here that the proposal is consensual across the professional public. In some details, it is a compromise solution with which no party is absolutely satisfied, but everyone has declared that they are able and willing to operate with such a compromise. Given the complexity of the material, it is clear that a perfect solution can never be achieved, but within an extremely short time for preparation it is the maximum possible. Time distress is also the reason why the amendment proposal does not aspire to broader areas of topics related to payment mechanisms. The amendment, for example, does not address the problematic § 16 nor does it engage in the reimbursement of hospital medical devices whose reimbursement was not subject to the repealing decision of the Constitutional Court. For the same reason, the approval of this amendment is proposed at first reading on the recommendation of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government. Let me just mention something from a material point of view. From a factual point of view, I would like to recapitulate that the amendment in question is moving the agenda of payment regulation of medical devices prescribed for vouchers under the State Institute for Drug Control, the appeal body is the Ministry of Health and the decisions of regulators are reviewed in administrative justice. I must mention also Annex 3 of the Act, which contains an updated categorization tree, which is a structured breakdown of the payment of a group of medical devices, including the introduction of prescriptive indications and payment limits bordering the insured person's claim. The inclusion of medical devices into payment groups itself is administratively undemanding, based on the reporting principle. All notices shall be made public, including all annexes and shall be subject to broad public control. The rigidity of the whole system is hindered by flexible instruments entrusted to health insurance companies, namely the possibility of concluding agreements for the highest price or initiation of price competitions. In order to prepare a new system, the draft amendment contains a transitional period that will ensure the reimbursement of all medical devices still covered at current level. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have the application from the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u6	Thank you for the floor. First to the time point. On 23 January 2015, a group of senators submitted submissions to the Constitutional Court. This Regulation shall enter into The Board of the Constitutional Court ruled on 30 May 2017, which is a year and 27 days. And today we hear that, from a time point of view, this must be approved in the first reading. I would like to appreciate the extraordinary courage of the Minister of Health in the demise and government in the demise that he will submit to us material that has more than 400 pages, with a single wave, respectively. Two, if we'd agreed to continue and then the law. Such serious material cannot be dealt with in such a reckless way. Even the YES movement was in the previous government. I'm not going to check the words of the current minister that they started working on it after he came in. So what were the governments doing before? Was the YES movement part of the government, or wasn't it? You all know the answer, it was. So if someone's wasted seven or eight months, it's not the opposition MPs' fault, it's the government, either Sobotkův's or Babišův. Therefore, on behalf of four MPs, I will say this in the order of the number of mandates, ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, I am vetoing the proceedings pursuant to § 90 para. 2, because we could have had enough time if the government had responded in time. The government sent it to the House on June 6, a year and seven days after the Constitutional Court's decision, and we're supposed to have what? Twenty or thirty minutes today? It's not normal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u7	Thank you to the chairman of the ODS Club. In that case, we will proceed in a standard manner, with that according to § 90 para. 2 we cannot proceed and we will proceed as standard in three readings. I remind you that we are in an open general debate, which I do not have any written application for. I see - first application. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u8	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Let me briefly introduce you to the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Club on the proposed amendment. As has already been said here, the amendment to Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, arose following the Constitutional Court's finding. The reasons have already been highlighted here by both the Minister and the rapporteur. We do not in any way question the need and inevitability of the adoption of this amendment. We welcome the fact that this amendment has been tabled, however, as has already been said here from the mouth of President Stanjura, we think that this is such an extensive material that really deserves to be discussed at least in the guarantee committee, which I assume will be the Committee on Health. It sounds like it's a very complicated material. It is both the categorization of medical devices and their reimbursement. We all know that this is a very complex issue. I understand that the Ministry has had a difficult role to play, but in order not to discuss this in the Health Committee, I think that there is a very risky procedure, and I therefore welcome the fact that we will discuss this in the classical legislative procedure. The KDU-ČSL Club will not oppose a reasonable reduction in the time limits for committee discussions. Otherwise, in a matter of fact. The Ministry tried to deal with a number of comments, but by far not all were settled. Again, I understand that this may not be possible for such a complex issue to the satisfaction of all those who comment, but I consider some of the comments to be serious and need to be dealt with. I also note that we are going to submit some amendments in the framework of a discussion either in committee or at second reading. Finally, KDU-ČSL will support the further legislative process of this amendment, and if there is a proposal for a reasonable reduction of the time limit for discussion, we will not oppose this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u9	I thank Mr Vít Kaňkovský for his speech in the general debate. Who else? The rapporteur is reporting for a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u10	I'd like to propose a reduction in the deadline for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u11	Thank you. Mr Vlastimil Válek now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u12	Thank you, Mr President. For TOP 09 we believe that this material is really extremely important for our patients. It is good that it will be discussed in committees. We believe that it must be discussed in detail precisely because it has been subjected to various pressures. There were a number of amendments that were also contradictory. It concerns a whole series of medical devices. Those attachments really have over 100 pages, which is why it is necessary to study the material very carefully and look at it in detail. Because whether we want it or not, it's not just professional material. It is a material that affects the fate of a number of patients, and therefore we, as Members, are politically responsible for the approval of this material. That's why we're here. Therefore, I thank you for the possibility that it will be discussed in detail in committees, perhaps even in subcommittees, and there will be plenty of time for it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u13	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. Who's next for the debate? If no one, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. There was no motion to return or refuse. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the relevant proposal to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee? It's not like that. We will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee in vote number 13. I ask who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's order number 13. Of the 144 present, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose ordering this press to other committees. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for another commandment. It's not like that. In the debate, there was a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion to 30 days. The chairman of the ODS Club is still reporting. Mr. Chairman, I think I have an idea what you're going to say. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u14	I think you have the right idea. We can say that, but it doesn't matter. No meeting is scheduled from 14 July to 12 September. Until then, a completely standard period of 60 days is sufficient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-013-012.u15	There. I understand you, Mr President, but I cannot rule out that more than 40 Members agree that an emergency holiday meeting is needed. And if I hadn't put it to the vote that it was an unvoting proposal, I'm sure you'd have pulled me out of the meeting. That is why I am going to have to vote on a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion to 30 days. It's the 14th vote I started. I'm asking who's up for it. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 14. Of the 144 present, for 84 present, against 28. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. We're ahead of the next point, or three points. It's about
