ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure at the request of 51 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Friday, March 2nd of this year. I beg you all to sign up with your I.D. cards now. I would remind you that Members who vote with replacement cards, the numbers of these replacement cards, were announced at the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. However, before we proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting, I would ask all Members once again to sign up with their identification cards in order to reach the necessary number of Members present at the meeting. [[Waiting for the necessary number of Members.]] Thus, we can proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Dolínek and Mr Vít Rakušan as a verifier. Does anyone else have a suggestion, please? I don't see another suggestion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the verifiers of the meeting. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Anyone against it? Voting order number 1: 130 Members registered, for 127, were against no one. The proposal was adopted, which means that we have appointed the verifiers of the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Mr.Petr Dolínek and Mr.Vít Rakušan. I declare that, before the opening of the meeting, they have asked to apologise for their failure to attend those Members and those Members who were appointed at the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the time of the 9th meeting. At the same time, I'm saying there are other apologies. Mr Karel Rais apologizes from 14.30 to 16.30 for reasons of work, Minister Ťok apologises from 15.00 to the end of the day for reasons of work and also from 9.00 to 12.00 today, and Mr Běhounek apologises from 14.30 to 15.30 for reasons of work. In the meantime, Mr Rais canceled his apology, which is for the record. We will now proceed to the programme of the 9th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the programme, nor can the approved programme be extended. Because I don't see anyone claiming priority rights... [[Several Members with priority rights shall apply.]] Yes. Otherwise, we would have taken a vote on the agenda. If priority colleagues report, the first was Vice-President Pikal, followed by President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u2	Good afternoon, everyone, I'm very surprised I managed to sign up first. I am reporting because I have actually received a petition at the last hour for the removal of Tomio Okamura, in which the below-signed citizens of the Czech Republic express their opposition to denying the suffering of Rom people during World War II and request the Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to withdraw Tomio Okamura as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and there is also an appeal by Miloslav Rozner from the mandate and immunity committee. So I would like to submit this petition, and it's about 600 signatures. Unfortunately, I didn't have the opportunity to recount it, so I took over this petition as a representative of the House. Now, I'd like to refer her to the petition committee. I don't see the President here, so I'm gonna pick a Vice President, and I'm gonna hand it over to him. That's all I have for me, I have just 600 citizens here asking us to discuss it. So please let us discuss this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. President Bartošek is registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the words are powerful, they can be pleased, but they can also hurt painfully. This is why it is not possible to pass through the silence of public statements: the work camp in Lety u Písek did not have a fence and allowed free movement, it was a non-existent pseudoconcentration camp, or any comment about sending anyone into the gas. All of these are statements of obviously similar-minded people gathered under the head of the SPD. As much as we're going through historical analysis and expertise, as much as we're going to blame ourselves for word-telling, the background of all of this is terrifying. Denying the Romani Holocaust, denying the genocide of ordinary innocent people, denying human suffering. That is why I think it is very important, honourable Members, for us to answer whether we want the person who represents the political movement with these views to represent the Czech Republic in a high constitutional capacity. This February 2018, i.e. 70 years later, we recall that, thanks to the silence of a large part of the public, a communist dictatorship took power in our state. Power that closed, tortured, executed, destroyed the democratic system, destroyed cultural heritage, restricted freedom of religion. The power at which the twisting of truth and facts was also at the beginning. Your fellow Member, a high constitutional officer and chairman of one of the parliamentary parties of Tomio Okamura, is a master at twisting the truth and facts. What was said about the question of the camp in Lety from Tomio Okamura's mouth during the January interview for DVTV was uncalled for and inexcusable. Especially cynical is the fact that this occurred on the International Holocaust Memorial Day. Public denial of the Romani Holocaust cannot be excused by the alleged fever of 39 degrees. After the criticism of the Okamura MPs from all sides ripped down, on his video channel on the social network, he "apologized" for saying that his statement about the unfenced camp was inaccurate, as "in Lety there was a picket fence with holes and a concentration camp began to guard the SS really only in 1943 when typhoid-infected prisoners began to flee the camp." Mr Okamura subsequently presented as the source of his claim the book of the Academy of Sciences entitled Camp Lety, Facts and Myths, a book which, according to all available information, does not exist yet. [[14.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, although Mr Okamurův's immediate explanation of how he meant it at all, "I'm sorry for the inaccurate expression, the fence was there, but there were holes in it", perhaps even a smile for someone to some extent, it is not easy to make a statement that is a clear denial and disregard of people's suffering during the Holocaust. It's very dangerous for our entire company. And for our entire society, it can also have fatal consequences. This is about denying death, closing your eyes to the suffering of men, women and children who were unlucky not to be born with blonde hair and blue eyes. We need to be straight with each other. The SPD movement has built its political career on populism and the pathetic intimidation of people. The playground of Tomio Okamura is populism in its purest form. Populism, in which the soil is long prepared, divides society, where the city is built against the village, so that someone can appear to stop it and make a quick cut. He claps a lot of people 'cause it's about the other guys. Mr Okamura chose this policy style and has the right to it, but it must be said publicly that the internment of Rom people in the camp was preparing for the Nazi final solution to the Gypsy issue. The camp in Lety u Písku and the camp in Hodonín u Kunštát were Romani collection camps, from which the vast majority of their inhabitants went to Auschwitz. According to historical documents, the Nazis murdered 90 percent of Czech Rom people. Those are the facts, yes, that's the Holocaust. In the year we remember 100 years since our republic was founded, we should not be indifferent to such dangerous signals. I've been hearing a growing call for greater national self-awareness, patriotism and national identity around me lately. And I agree with that. But building a national identity based on fake history is a way to hell. In the year 100th anniversary of the independent state, the basis for the future of the Czech Republic must not become a lie, and a lie even more disgusting, that it does not concern the Royal Court or Zelenohora manuscript, but the killing and abuse of innocent people. If we, as the Chamber of Deputies, do not now declare distance from the words of Vice-President Okamura by calling him out of a high constitutional capacity, we shall approach his game publicly. We are making it clear to the Czech public and to the whole world that the truth means nothing to us, that we have not been able to learn for several times that we are able to sell our conscience for a local political advantage. We signal all people that lying is normal, morale and decency means nothing, and that fish smells from the head. I suppose that, in response to my speech here sooner or later, Mr Okamura himself will appear, who will argue that the reservations raised against him in this context are part of some political campaign. Here's what I'd like to say: Mr Okamura, through Mr President, a criminal complaint against you and your party colleagues, all these public convictions and negative responses are merely a result of your words and actions. It was you who first said about Camp Lety that no one was watching him, and later that there were fences, but with holes. It was your party colleague, Mr Rozner, who spoke of Lety as a non-existent pseudo-concentration, and after all, it was yours, although today Mr Staník, former secretary of the SPD MP, who was screaming drunk here in the parliamentary restaurant that all Žid, Cikán and homosexuals should end up in gas, which is currently being spared by the police. You and some of your members are making the SPD an extremist and xenophobic party. That is why some members of the SPD have already been charged with the fact that they have committed a crime of Holocaust denial under Section 405 of the Criminal Code. It must be said that representatives of national minorities living in the Czech Republic, including the Secretary of the Council of the Government for National Minorities, have also clearly condemned Tomio Okamura's hateful ideology and his party with their statement. It must be said that these people represent more than half a million people living in our Republic. This statement was signed by representatives of the Bulgarian minority, Polish, Romani, Slovak, German, Vietnamese, Russian and Greek minorities, in addition to the Secretary of the Council of the Government for National Minorities. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you who have signed up to convene this extraordinary meeting and to include this item, thank you for that, and I am glad that you feel that, as well as the criminal report, it is important that people who generally respect freedom, human rights, democracy and who do not distort historical facts are in high constitutional positions. I believe that many of you will join in and support the discussion of the point which is the motion to withdraw Tomio Okamura from the position of Vice-President of the House, and I would also ask you to support this point with your vote for all the reasons that I spoke about earlier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Before we continue with the speech of another speaker with priority rights, I tell you that by 15.30 apologizes to Mr David Pražák from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for working reasons, for today's meeting within 19 hours for health reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík, Mr Jan Volný apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for health reasons, and Mr Marek Novák apologizes for the hearing of the Chamber of Deputies for working reasons between 14 and 18.40 hours. There will now be a speech by speakers with priority rights. President Chvojka, President Radim Fiala, President Bartoš and President Kalousek are included in this discussion. The Prime Minister Chvojka has the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, allow me to present our opinion on the agenda for the ČSSD club. An extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies has been convened on this day and it must be said that the date is indeed very symbolic. Today is the 75th anniversary of the first mass transport of Brno Rom to the concentration camp in Auschwitz. Transport on March 7, 1943, was the first mass transport of the Protectorate Rom to the concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz II - Březinka. This was done by order of the Reich Minister of the Interior and the leader of the SS Heinrich Himmler of 16 December 1942, who ordered the forced concentration of all the Racial Cikán and Gypsies from Germany occupied territories in the Auschwitz Camp Complex. More than a thousand Romani men, women and children were then taken by wagons from the city slaughterhouse building in Brno. Most of them did not survive and in the following months of 1943 other transports to Auschwitz followed. [[14.50 hours]] One of the largest transports was the one from the former gypsy camp in Hodonín near Kunštát, which involved nearly 800 prisoners, most of whom never returned. Of the 5,500 Protectorate Rom who were deported to Auschwitz, including more than 1,600 prisoners from the so-called gypsy camps in Lety u Písek and Hodonín u Kunštát, only 583 survived. In the Czech lands, only about a tenth of the original Romani population survived World War II. This means that 90 percent of our pre-war Romani population was murdered. The Genocide of Czech and Moravian Rom, as well as the German Sint, was one of the most thoroughly carried out genocides of World War II. As far as the camp in Lety is concerned, it belonged to a total of 21 branch camps of the Flossenbürg concentration camp and is linked, among other things, to the hard work of prisoners, food shortages, catastrophic health conditions, diseases, accidents at work and violent excesses on the part of prison guards. It should therefore be said that the statements made by the current Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies by Tomio Okamura concerning the concentration camp at Lety u Písek are, were and will always be totally unacceptable in civilised society. There is no question of the suffering of hundreds of people who died in the summer camp. It's spit in the face of the victims of this camp. A total of 337 people died under the terrible conditions of this concentration camp. And it should be pointed out that two thirds of these 337 people were children. Those are sad facts. And the debate about whether the camp was fenced or not, whether there was a wooden fence or not, and whether there was a fence that went over or not, is totally bizarre and repellent. As a CSSD club, we expect Tomio Okamura to apologize for his remarks and to explain them. He should not only explain his remarks at the meeting of a member's club, that is, at the ANO meeting, as we noted in the media, that he explained in three sentences what he meant and that the YES movement was satisfied with this explanation. He should explain it here in plenary and he should apologize. And it must be said that even if he tried to explain his claim in some way that the explanation couldn't work anyway. The overwhelming majority, or the entire MP's club of the ČSSD, agrees that such a person must not hold this top position, which means that he should be removed from the post of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I will ask the Prime Minister to resign, although unfortunately he is not here, if he could reconsider his position and if he really wants to keep Mr. Tomio Okamura in this position. I appeal to the example of Minister Pelikán, who unfortunately is not here either, perhaps somewhere he is thinking of resigning, who has said several times publicly that he does not want to cooperate with the SPD movement. I appeal to my colleagues, Minister Stropnickýý and Minister Šlechtová, who have also said that they have a problem with SPD statements and representatives of this party. So I'd like to, because it's the same as the debate about Mr. Ondráček on the YES movement. It is up to 78 members of the ANO movement, that is almost half of the Chamber of Deputies, if this programme, as proposed, is even agreed, so that we can discuss this not only to those who have priority rights, but to everyone else. And then, if the program were approved, to contribute to Tomio Okamura being removed from the post of Vice-President of the House for the reasons I spoke of, for his unacceptable and extremist remarks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. President Radim Fiala will now speak with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear government, I do not intend to play historian here, but it is necessary to recall some of the contexts, because the suffering of people in the hands of some colleagues becomes an instrument of political struggle and manipulation. Our movement is patriotic. We are reporting to the interests of our nation. We report to his traditions, and we also feel a commitment to his victims. That's why we can't be Holocaust deniers, and we can't be suspected of questioning the suffering of his victims. The liquidation of the Czech nation was part of the plans for a racial solution to the European space. The final solution to the Czech question was signed by Heydrich himself, who was the main designer of this organized murder. The Czech nation is therefore in the same position as other groups of Holocaust victims in the final solution. Our happiness was only that in the order of liquidation we were pushed away for a period after the war, because the Nazi German machinery needed to use our workforce. During World War II, the planned destruction of nations, ethnic groups, disabled people, people of other sexual orientations, and, last but not least, people of another political opinion took place. We will not separate the victims or promote positive discrimination against some of the victims of German Nazi murder at the expense of the victims of others. Colleagues from the People's Party and some others have played a political game in cooperation with the media, which aims to stick to the SPD the designation of a fascist movement. It's nothing new. Everyone in Europe who doesn't play comedy directed by Brusel is a fascist and extremist. This is happening in France in the case of Marine Le Pen, it is also happening in the case of the successful Italian League of North Matte Salvini. This is simply happening wherever someone tries to make a policy in the national interest and in the interests of freedom of citizens. Sticking is a common part and tactics of neomarxist globalists. Neomarxism is the essence of EU elite policy. They have created a lie that national values and patriots must be considered fascists. According to these neomarxistic standards, Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk would probably be a fascist today. By the way, today we commemorate the 168th anniversary of the birth of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk. It is very interesting that at the same time absolutely clear elements of Nazi rehabilitation and war crimes are tolerated and even supported. In all of the Baltics there are commemorative meetings of the SS. In Ukraine, the criminal of Bandera is celebrated. Yes, in this Ukraine one or two years ago, the criminal Stepan Bandera became a national hero of Ukraine. This proven tendency doesn't matter. In the Baltics and Ukraine, these Nazis define themselves against Russia. So they're good Nazis and they deserve the support of so-called democratic politicians. I mention these circumstances deliberately to point out the falsehood that is happening today in general. And now the facts. Historians report that there are some 2,500 places in our country where people were interned, imprisoned, tortured, and murdered during World War II. It is our duty to remind these places with dignity. It is also our shame that we do not do so. Many places and monuments are in a pitiful state. There is no means to maintain or restore them. If the Minister of Culture were here, I'm sure he'd confirm it. That is why it is vital that the means spent to commemorate people's suffering be used effectively. Today, for example, there is a debate on how to use the funds effectively to commemorate the execution site at the Pardubice Castle. No one suspects designers seeking the most effective solution of questioning the point of this murder site. [[15.00 hours]] In this context, I consider it a legitimate debate on the circumstances and the funds we spend on a dignified reminder of one single place. And here it needs to be made clear that Camp Lety is not the most important in terms of commemorating the victims of the Nazi will. In the case of the Lety camp, the Minister of Finance of the previous government did not support the spending of funds, and he probably knew why. It is an opaque transaction that disparages the reminder of the place and prevents money from being spent on really and increasing the piety of other places where it was tortured and killed. Those places are bad luck. They are not at the centre of the attention of Sorosův' nonprofit organizations and associated politicians, activists and media who have assumed the moral right to decide and apply positive discrimination in assessing the degree of suffering. Where Slovan were murdered, especially Rus, where partisans were murdered, Czech patriots, it is less interesting today and less necessary to remind, or even to ignore such fact. There is no interest in spending hundreds of millions. On the contrary, voices appear boldly, as if we Čech were jointly responsible for the crimes of Nazi Germany. I repeat, Čech who had their verdict of a final solution and were to disappear from the map of Europe. It is absolutely ironic that the People's Party is playing a political game today, whose members, in the position of representatives of the Czech Government, attend meetings of the Sudeten German organizations and want to make us feel guilty. This obvious political collaboration is directly mocked by the historical context. It is a historical fact that the Sudeten Němec were one of the authors of the final solution to the Czech question and only the victory of the allies, paid on our territory by the lives of allied soldiers, especially Rus and Rumun, saved us from the actual biological liquidation. Ladies and gentlemen, I had to make a short and incomplete historical excursion to make myself clear about the labeling and handling that is taking place on these topics today. People who play political games to reverse the outcome of democratic elections abuse people's suffering and abuse history. People who want to apply the principle of positive discrimination to victims harm the memory of all victims without distinction. People who claim that the Czech nation is jointly responsible for the Nazi Holocaust lie. Let us stop using the memory of the victims of Nazism for political purposes. Tomio Okamura's colleague interpreted the historical facts completely. He solved this matter. Let the voters deal with political competition. If colleagues on the part of the people enforce the denial of the principle on which the House has begun to work, namely proportional representation according to the outcome of the elections, it is, of course, part of a political game to prevent a stable government from coming into existence. It is part of a cynical plan to tie the hands of the winner of the election and limit his negotiating space. Our movement is not afraid of democratic competition through voters. On the contrary. People in this country are sick of fake politics and media manipulation. In the next election, the People's Party will certainly see to it. The leaders of the People's Party refer to the sudeťák as kind, dear countrymen. Let me remind you that these dear fellow countrymen are an organization founded by real Nazis and fascists. It is necessary to remind Mr Rudolf Lodgman von Auen, the founder of the Sudeten German political movement, Mr Walter Becher, Mr Siegfried Zoglmann. These are not labeling products. These are the Nazis and fascists who are terrified of war and the Holocaust. These rascals and the ideas of our nation's murderers are the founders and former spokesmen of your countrymen today. Part of the nice compatriots, Mr Herman, Bělobrádek and Bartoška, through Mr President, is the Witikobund organization. It is clearly linked to the Sudeten Landsmanshaft. I quote from the 2004 report by the Czech Ministry of Interior: Attention is also earned by the organization of the Sudeten German Nazis Witikobund, which spreads anti-Czech views in the Landsmansaft environment. The organization's program is to atone for alleged war crimes committed by allies on the German nation and to further eliminate lies about German crimes, including the so-called Holocaust culture as an expression of non-German thought. End of quote. I would never dare identify the people's side with folk collaborators from 1948 to 1989. They were people who betrayed democracy and Christian values. Today's leadership of the People's Party has also abandoned democratic values and also served people in Brussels who threaten democracy and freedom. You collaborate, you betray, you harm when you can, and you deny the values you falsely claim to defend. You're doing this for your own power, money, and foreign interests. You have no programme of your own for the Czech Republic and our people. You're like a drum. You make noise, and there's nothing inside. This music's already bugging people. They'll send you into political history. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for the House to return to its work, to start working in the interests of the citizens who elected this House, and to this work it honors constitutional customs. I firmly believe that there are enough colleagues and colleagues who refuse to dance like bears by the eardrum of the People's Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u9	President Bartoš with priority rights. After that, President Kalousek is registered. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u10	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to be here briefly, although it is not easy, after what I have just heard, what has happened here. In the long run, we do not have to agree with the manner in which Mr Tomio Okamura, or other members or representatives of the SPD, appears in public space at the time of elections outside the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, this can be dealt with by means of criminal notification if the rhetoric violates any laws of the existing Czech Republic. However, if Mr Tomio Okamura has been elected Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, he is the representative of Members of the entire Chamber of Deputies. We disagree with this rhetoric. The apology in this case is not enough. I would also like to appeal, through Mr President, to the members of the SPD. If you have the word "democracy" in your party's name, and even in your program you talk about the responsibility of politicians, and I have already solved the criminal code, and there are obviously some lawsuits against Vice-President Okamura, that is the role of the Chamber of Deputies. A politician who will do something, something even serious, and I consider these statements to be serious, should come before the Chamber of Deputies and have the courage to confess, explain it to all of us here, not just at the club YES, which therefore has such strength in the Chamber of Deputies. I think that is the courage of politics, that is the democracy when we talk about someone facing citizens in direct democracy, so standing up to 200 Members in the Chamber of Deputies is the right step, and that is the politician who claims to be a politician defending his interests, he stands up for his truth. Mr. Okamura should do that here. I find it... not theatrically shocking. It seems very problematic to me when we were able to get 86 signatures to discuss this matter in the parliamentary plenary that a large number of Members who proposed it had already been re-voted to the meeting by the coalition YES, KSČM, SPD. So I would like to ask you, and so I would ask you, by the SPD, Tomio Okamura, to allow this matter to be discussed, to approve the negotiations of this extraordinary meeting, and to look at what democracy really is. Because the House has given, the House has taken. And this is where the democratic debate is taking place, and Members have the right to hear the defence and then decide whether Mr Tomio Okamura should be or should not continue to be Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, because it is a representative function and does not represent only you, from your side, from which he passes through, but also represents the entire Chamber of Deputies abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights, is Mr Kováčik. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, President Okamura has both excused his statement by fever and by inaccurate expression. In a way which, I confess, is not very acceptable to me, was defended here by President Fiala, and everyone claims that against Rom people - the President of the SPD Fiala, I see a bit of horror in the faces of ODS colleagues - with the fact that Vice-President Okamura personally has nothing against Rom people. We, who sometimes go to the Facebook profile of some of our colleagues, know what they really say and how their words can be read. I'm gonna try not to quote Mr. Vice President in the wrong way, and I'm gonna give you a 45-second record of his speech. [[He's running a speech recording on Tomio Okamura's Facebook profile from the tablet.]] Tomio Okamura's voice: "Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to my Facebook profile. Over the last 70 years, the number of Rom people in the Czech Republic has increased 32 times. Yes, you can hear me well. It's really an incredible increase. While 10,000 Rom people lived with us in 1945, this year it is estimated to be 320 000. In the last 14 years alone, their numbers have doubled. In my opinion, the current steep growth of the Roma population is one of the two greatest security risks for the Czech Republic. Of course, the other is the inadaptable immigrants." [[Pirate MPs are banging on the bench.]] Through Mr President, did you ask yourself, Mr Vice-President Okamura, why were there so few Rom people here in 1945? And by any chance, weren't there a few Žid here? And wasn't that exactly the same reason? Because of the greatest atrocities in the history of human civilization, which you renege and deny? And now that you filmed this speech for your Facebook page, you didn't have a fever. This is on your Facebook page, and this is what you call the citizens of the Czech Republic. Did you also ask yourself a question, or would you like to explain to us during this extraordinary meeting, whose programme I hope will be approved, why citizens of the Czech Republic with constitutional rights of citizens of the Czech Republic Romani nationality - it is not the only minority nationality that lives in our state - why is one of the two greatest security risks? Why are our fellow citizens one of the two greatest security risks? And I don't want to think about how you're thinking about eliminating and eliminating this in your opinion of the security risk! Mr. Chairman of SPD Fiala said you were a patriotic movement, and he even referred to Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk. We have March 7th, we celebrate the birth day of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, so let me quote one of his quotes: "Patriotism is love for its own nation, not hatred for others. " Through Mr President, you, Vice-President Okamura, are spreading this hatred. You're spreading intolerance along with a bunch of other colleagues. On behalf of the TOP 09 Group, we do not really want a person who spreads hatred and intolerance to represent the Chamber of Deputies as Vice-President. Because we are members of the Chamber of Deputies, and we think this representation is an international disgrace. Of course, we would be very pleased if you would take an example from Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and resign yourself. In that case, you can tell us we're a democratic cesspool. You can tell us three times, we can handle it. The important thing is that you no longer represent us. If you do not do so, of course everything depends on the vote of the members of the club YES. It's the strongest club, and they decide whether or not someone who spreads intolerance and hate will represent us further. I would like to point out, my dear colleagues from the club of the ANO movement, that, quite a little while ago, your President Babiš honoured the victims of the Romani Holocaust in the Museum of Romani Culture in Brno and reminded us that something like this must never happen again. Well, words are words and actions are actions. If you decide today that the Holocaust denier and the spreader of intolerance and hatred against other ethnicians should continue to represent the Chamber of Deputies, then you can distance yourself from something in words, but by your own action, the vote, you support it. Here's your Rhodes, and here's your jump! Either to support a civilized society, the ideals of humanism on which our republic is founded, the ideals of equality in rights and dignity before the law, or jump to the promotion of extremism. That'll be easy to see by your vote. I wish you luck to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u13	President Kováčik will not speak now. The President of Gazdík is next with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u14	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'm not gonna read the prepared speeches. I don't think I'm gonna talk too much. I want to do the things that are bothering me, and technically, I want to face the problem that we have here. I had the honour of serving as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies for almost four years. And they taught us that the task of Vice-President of the House is to run the House and represent it on the outside. I'm sorry, but if any of the Vice-Presidents doesn't represent us all - not just themselves, because the Vice-President doesn't speak for himself anymore and he doesn't express himself publicly, but for the entire Chamber of Deputies - he has to bear the consequences. What Vice-President Okamura has said has been discussed enough here, and I thank my previous speakers for saying what they have said. Now, in conclusion, I would like to say something to you, my dear colleagues and dear colleagues from the SPD. You have in the name of the party of direct democracy, and before the elections, we have also heard in every other sentence of your President or from you the words of the rebuttal of politicians. I firmly believe that you were serious about this and that even in the corner of your soul for a minute you are not considering not allowing a secret vote as an instrument of democracy and a direct democracy to appeal when a clear part of the Members, 80 or more than 80, said that they wished to vote on it. You who have the word "direct democracy" in your name. And you have also advocated the rebuttal of politicians. If more than 80 Members here wish to call off one of your politicians, I believe you're not considering not admitting it for a moment. Or is the rebuttal of politicians just for some? And when it comes to your politics, it doesn't concern you anymore? Show us now by your vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. I don't see any more applications with priority rights. [[Mr Belobrádek is reporting for the floor.]] I therefore note that this meeting was convened in accordance with paragraph - and the President has the floor. Please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u16	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, I would like to say that when I read one of the books of Tomio Okamura, there was a quote that I also like and I will now read to you. He's from a German anti-fascist, a man who was a real hero. And he said, when the Nazis came for the Communists, I kept my mouth shut. I wasn't a communist. When they closed the Social Democrats, I kept my mouth shut, I wasn't a Social Democrat. When they came for the union, I kept my mouth shut, I wasn't a unionist. When they came for me, there was no one left to defend me. I think that what we are experiencing here and what we are discussing here, and I would really like us to be able to discuss not only with the priority right, but all Members of this fine body, so that we realize that here we are talking about a person who divides people according to what ethnic groups they belong to, and accordingly gives them a label. He's labeling them that they're all like that. The chairman of the SPD Parliamentary Club essentially compared that all so-called. The sudeťák were Nazis. I wish you'd come to the convention of the compatriotic association sometime. Yes, there's a Witikobund, and it's also very disgusting, and I'm clearly distancing myself from it. But there are people in the CSU. They're SPD people, which are social democrats in Germany. That's where they keep their stalls. There are people who are clearly distancing themselves from Nazism. These are people who can make a clear and completely uncompromising criticism of Nazism. But the point here is that there are some anti-fascists who went to protest what happened here after 1945 and 1945. There are people who have suffered for Nazism themselves. And you're throwing them all together, just like you're throwing all the Rom. I'm sure you can't do this. You know, you like to talk about Christian values. I wonder if you even know what it is. She's not that easy to ask, and I'm kind of wondering if you're covering up for her what it would be. I understand that you're feeling a little nervous about falling preferences, and I understand that you're defining yourself towards us. [[Speech of disapproval of SPD Members, laughter.]] I understand. Anyway, the only rescue for you is to be even more violent and to be even more aggressive than you are now. I'm not happy about this. Anyway, I'm convinced that the fact that hate and lies are part of your equipment is obvious. And I think we can even accept your lies about migration as part of the election. I think it's just your style and it's your tool. But if your leaders are developing such nonsense here, I'm sure you should be ashamed. And I'll give you another quote. To you, the so-called patriots. It's a 1926 Karel Čapek quote. "There is no uglier thing to do than to make patriotism a business. It's similar to moral prostitution, as if someone wanted to feed on their virtues. A decent person does not say that he is nationally conscious, as he does not claim to be honest. This may be understood among intact people." Yes, it's that Karel Čapek, who was on the Gestapo list and who would definitely end up in a concentration camp, maybe in some pseudo-concentration camp, because he could go to a bathroom that was very beautiful, certainly, in the concentration camp where his brother died. And I think it's very hypocritical of all of you to try to pack into the Czech flag. You are talking here, President Radim Fiala, through Mr President, has spoken here about various monuments. You know, it's interesting that I've never seen you guys bow down to the memory of our parachutists, by the way, personally linked to the people's side, because the orel, and we have the mayor of Orl, had the same founder. And those guys who made a military attack on Heydrich, four of them who died in Resslovka after that, were eagles. I've never seen you there. I've never seen you guys in Legions. You know, it's just a rumor, but reality is different. That you're not ashamed of patriotism! Making sure there were people here who put their lives on the line. And you can lean on the people's side, but we also have dozens and hundreds of martyrs. And both the Nazis murdered and the communists murdered. Yes, they were collaborators. But we also have martyrs. And we also had a prime minister in Britain. He also lived in prisons and communist internships. I believe that what we are experiencing here is indeed a border situation where we can really have a different view of some things. But there are boundaries and limits that just don't cross. The limits of human dignity are not to be exceeded. Every man has a value. Every man deserves his human dignity. And it doesn't matter if he's small, fat, bald, blonde, handicapped, smart. But that doesn't ring a bell. And that is one of the fundamental Christian values that human dignity must not be trampled on. That man is a reflection of boží. I doubt you even know what I'm talking about. That you're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Kováčik has applied with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sending that even part of my family history is a stay in the concentration camp of one of my ancestors, my grandfather, in the position of a prisoner. After the French resistance was defeated, he was in a concentration camp, returned from it and worked for this republic - please nicely in the mines of Ostrava. Not in any function. But that might have sounded like it before. I just want to illustrate that, along with the Communist movement and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, I have a deep respect for the victims and deep, yes, here hatred of those who organized the concentration camps in any way, at the time they behaved in atrocities. And I also have deep respect for those who have freed this republic and with it all Europe and the whole world from that Nazi terror rule. Whether it was east, west, north or south. That's an inexhaustible limit to my thinking and my behavior. But I want to - and I don't want to say anything because the world isn't black and white, just like history isn't just nice or just evil, so I don't want to say something like the devil is preaching about morality to some of his predecessors from the plaintiffs of this point. But I would remind you that when there was talk of stamps and stickers, it was a pity that yesterday, during a similar discussion that took place here, the appeal of my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček, was also not thought of grading and labeling as an unpleasant thing, as it is, of course, rightly referred to immediately. And I would also be a little more humble on the part of the plaintiffs of this point. After all, she's not entirely black and white either. I remember, I just don't know which one exactly, forgive me, Christian history, Catholic, especially, I don't know so well, which one was the Pope who blessed those Nazi weapons. Because there was also the beginning of all this suffering. So let's all bow down to the victims of this suffering in whatever facility, in whatever camp, whether it was internment, concentration, work or whatever else during World War II. And in a quiet memory, let's say, we must not forget! But let's also say that history is not black and white and that we are to honor each other and that we are to work more, taught by that history, so that it cannot be repeated and that our children, our grandchildren here in this country, live better than our ancestors or we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. I note that from 15 to 18 o'clock today's meeting for health reasons Mr.Foldyna apologizes and from 14.30 to the end of the meeting day due to a foreign business trip Mr.Metnar Interior Minister. I'm looking around the Chamber to see if anyone else is applying with priority rights. If no one checks in, I'll remind you that this meeting... This is President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u20	Just a short reaction. At present, when the agenda of the meeting, colleagues and colleagues are approved, we will not decide on any form of law, whether it is selling time or anything else. We will decide here how democracy will look for the future in this country and what we will be willing to do, or we will not be willing to tolerate, not only in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in our society. Believe that this is a relatively key vote that will decide many things and show many things. And for me, I say that I am experiencing great disappointment and disillusionment that at least one member of the government, who would say an opinion - if not for the government, did not have the courage to do so. Because in practice, they say silence means consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u21	President Bělobrádek with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, I would add to what Pavel Kováčik said here by means of you, if he could say which Pope it was. Because it is often wrong to bless the soldiers in advance, because it was clear that many of them would perish, so they were doing acts that were a little different, so it is something other than blessing weapons. So if he said which one and where, then let's clear up the individual things. Another thing I would like to say is that forgiveness and mercy are among the fundamental Christian values to teach a colleague here. That is the foundation of Christianity. Not an eye for an eye. That's one of the things. And reconciliation between people who want to reconcile and who regret is the fundamental and fundamental value of Christianity. And I would also like to say that Daniel Hermann, when President Fiala here leaned on him by your means, his direct relatives died in the Holocaust with the Nazi hand. And yet he's willing to work on reconciliation. The fact that we must not forget what happened here, all the atrocities, all the inhuman and cruel things. What a person is capable of doing to another person must not be forgotten. We need to remember this, but we also need to move on. Because to support the hatred of generations to come is exactly what is the legacy of Nazism, what is the legacy of all hateful ideologies, all hateful regimes. Spreading them like poison. And that is quite contrary to Christian values. I hope you remember that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, I'm asking if anyone else is applying with priority rights. It's not like that. I therefore reiterate that this meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the proposed programme are the removal of Tomio Okamura from the post of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Since we do not have an extraordinary meeting every day, I remind all Members of Parliament that we will now not vote on the removal of Tomio Okamura from the post of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, but only on the proposal for a agenda for this meeting, and then we could just start the negotiations. So we will now decide on the program in the application, as I have read it here. There's an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. I beg you to re-enlist with your ID cards, which has now happened. And I'm opening the vote on the agenda. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered by 176 Members, for 77, against 49, i.e. the proposal has not been adopted. It means that the proposed agenda has not been approved. We are in a situation where there is a request for a vote to be checked, which, of course, we will accept. [[It's happening.]] Mr President of ODS Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. I question the vote. I voted in favour, you all saw the way I showed the club, and I got a cross on high. So I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u25	Yes, there is a proposal from President Stanjura to challenge the vote. I will put this proposal to a vote. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 3, 177 Members registered, for 154, against none. The motion was accepted. The vote was therefore called into question. And we will vote again on the draft agenda for the meeting. I don't think I need to reacquaint you with what we're going to vote on, that it's clear to everyone. If not, I'd be happy to read it again. There's a checkout request. I'm signing all of you off, and I'm signing off on those who mistakenly applied for a factual remark. Please log in with your ID cards again. And I'm reopening the vote on the agenda. All in favor, please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 4, 177 Members signed in for 78, versus 41. The motion was denied. There is a new request to check the vote, which I will again comply with. [[The noise in the hall.]] President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The agenda failed, that's the reality, that's how democracy works, I respect it. Yet here I have a need to say one thing. The fundamental responsibility rested on the YES movement, on you, dear Members, how you will behave, who you want to have at the head of the Chamber of Deputies and who will represent us. I would like to appreciate - because I am sure your files and agents will find out who supported YES - I would like to publicly thank Mr Vyzula here for keeping his spine straight. [[Long-standing applause from both right and social democracy.]] You, colleagues and colleagues from the ANO movement, have taken responsibility for the value orientation of the policy of the Czech Republic. You have taken responsibility for representing the Czech Republic in a high constitutional capacity, a person who has disgraced and dishonored the victims of the Holocaust of World War II! [[Loud and emotional.]] Take care of it with each other's conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u27	President Gazdík, after whom President Kalousek, is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u28	My esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, this is what the rebuttal of politicians looks like in practice. President Okamura made a mistake. He said things he shouldn't have said, and he didn't represent us all as Vice-President of the House as he should have. He even admitted it in his own words. Such a politician should be voted on according to your principles. You didn't allow that vote. You didn't even admit to voting on it in a secret election. So that's the way politicians appeal in practice. Especially when it's not about us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u29	Chairman Kalousek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure some of you will have a different opinion on this, but I speak for the part of the public that will be ashamed not only of its President of the Republic after this vote, but also of its Chamber of Deputies. The so-called Apostles of Nechumelism in the media and in politics, who constantly appeal to the democratic parties in the House as if to protect the ANO movement from cooperation with extremists, so I want to ask them a public rhetorical question after this vote: What makes YES less extremist than the other two parties? I mean, all three are the same. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And they have a voting coalition together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u31	President Stanjura with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I must use the term unpleasant government. Not one member of the government of the Czech Republic wanted to allow a debate on this serious issue. Not one! Including those who give interviews and showy pull away from the SPD. We all know who they are, I'm not going to name them. Where's your heroics against the microphone? And if you have a button in front of you, what do you do? Shut up! Well, next time, keep it up, talk about how you hate it. I'm not talking about whether you should have voted one way or another. You, dear members of the government for the YES movement - who do not like the SPD so much, are unhappy about it, you have to think about it - you have not even allowed the debate to the Members without priority rights! So you're exactly the same as the ones who don't mind. So don't play the better ones from the YES movement, who really hate it: I have a terrible problem with it. When it comes to the vote, you vote just like everyone else. And I have to say, if I've looked well at the junk, if I apologize so much, look how our President of our Chamber of Deputies voted!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u33	With priority rights, President Chvojka, after him with priority rights, President Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'm basically going to follow up on what Mr Stanjura said about being addressed and being personal, and I'm sorry about that. In my previous speech, I said and appealed to those people who, for example, A month ago in the group press of Andrej Babiš, they were appointed as having a major problem with the possible future government of the YES supporting the SPD movement. I suspect the names were three, Robert Pelikán, who is not here, is just to honor the memory of the victims of the Romani Holocaust in Brno, he is excused. But there was also the mention of Minister Šlechtová and Minister Stropnický, whom I know from my annual work in the government, and I had very good relations with them, but unfortunately I have to say, and I say this with some pain in my heart, that they simply showed up in this very vote which took place, as people who unfortunately cannot be trusted. Because they said in the group press that they had a problem with the SPD movement, that they didn't like their opinions. Mrs Šlechtová was even sharper, she is threatened in quotation marks by a criminal complaint to her address for what she said about opinions or people from the ANO movement. But now that we have been able to discuss it for a little longer, and we have been able to give the opportunity to some other people outside those who have the right of priority to say what they think about this matter, they have abstained. I think it's cowardice on their part, and I'm very sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u35	děkovat you, Chairman Kováčik. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to it this way, and lately more often, from my colleague Kalousek, Stanjura and others to my right sitting, staying colleagues, when I listen to the weeping and gnashing of teeth over the state of democracy, here over the election result to, I don't know, anywhere, like the president's election, here about how many extremists we have here and I don't know what groups, here about how strong the ANO movement is, the winner of the election, for the second time, the strong movement for the second time in the election, I wonder if the democracy that we have so much talk about applies to everyone, or only when the so-called. They're gonna throw us right now. That's what throws them in quotes. Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever asked yourself whether it is not due to your current policy that the political spectrum in the Czech Republic is composed, as it is composed, that citizens have elected freely and democratically to the Chamber of Deputies or, for example, to the presidency or anywhere else, to regional councils, cities and municipalities, etc., depending on their experience with the current policy, with the existing governments? Yesterday, the draft of a new point did not pass here, I will shorten its name, the crimes of privatization of the ODS after 1989. I assure you that this is also one of the reasons, not that it failed, but that there is still a strong enough experience in the memory of the citizens of the electorate from the 90th wild years of the Klondajk era. That there's still a strong enough memory when the media represented various cases, whether convicted or because of various bizarre escapes still unpunished, I mean... and whatever, we all know who it is. Haven't you ever considered that it would be a good thing, you're also calling on us here, anyone else to be humbled and self-esteemed and apologized, and I don't know what it's all about, that you've taken your senses into the hand and thought about what you've done wrong, came up and said, "I'm afraid we've made this possible"? Stealing hundreds of billions of national property, disappearing into strange black holes or tax havens? That the condition you're begging today is caused, perhaps not entirely 100%, but also decisively by you? Please, I think if we're losing our way to democracy, it's mine. facilities, institutions, democracy, for everyone. Free and democratically, we are elected here, both you and we have the same mandates, and we also have the same chance, as well as the same responsibilities, and the same, I would say, the task of work. And in my opinion, it's mostly service. Service to the citizens who voted for us here. Service to all citizens. We are the Chamber of Deputies for all citizens, not just for some, not just for the self-appointed democratic spectrum, and the others are supposed to become someone like the other, because it is not appropriate for them to stand up for this or that. Please, let us note this, that the service is also that we are to be objective and that we are to serve all alike. Sticking, constantly attacking doesn't serve our prestige at all. And let us not be surprised that the prestige of a Member is far beyond the prestige of a profession that is above other useful, and that is a cleaning lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u37	With priority rights, the lords of the chairmen Stanjura, Kalousek, Bělobrádek are registered in this order. Mr. Chairman Stanjura has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u38	I almost don't want to respond to the speech of the President of the Communist Parliamentary Club, because today I think the situation is serious. There was a very good speech that called on the Chamber of Deputies to deal with this serious problem, and I do not want to make it a standard political shootout, which certainly belongs to the House's work, and I do not normally mind, and I like to participate in them myself. But the constant relativization of everything, the eclipse of the past, the fact that the word democracy, the Democrat is really being used as a swearing word... President Kováčik is a very experienced parliamentary speaker and used his favourite method: he protested words that I never said. For example, the fact that a mandate is worth more than another. I never said anything like that. You're the one who calls us the so-called - democratic parties. It's in our name. It's been in our name for 27 years, and I'm proud of it. [[Chairman Kováčik of the alley: I said self-appointed.]] But I don't have to say it every day, every hour, every minute for everyone to notice. Either the others notice, and they're paying for it, or they don't. Just because we all have the same mandate doesn't mean that after the election that I didn't win, I'm going to be silent for four years and watch what the majority does that was more successful in those elections. In order to avoid this negative assessment of the results of the elections, the elections in October 2017 have, in my opinion, brought some very good news. Firstly, President Kováčik through the President, the worst electoral outcome of the Communist Party. [[A round of applause for KDU-ČSL.]] This is an excellent result for me personally and for our voters. And we are far from weeping, on the contrary we rejoice. The fact that no one is entitled to office in the Chamber of Deputies is clear. The law thinks about membership of committees and committees, that's also clear. It bothers me just as much when Tomio Okamura represents us abroad as when Vojtěch Filip represents us abroad. I'm here for the third term. Three times Vojtěch Filip ran for the leadership of the House. I never voted for him. When we had that power in 2010, he wasn't elected. When we didn't have that power in 2013 and 2017, he was elected. I respect that, but no one's entitled to it. Not even the election winner. The Chamber of Deputies decides as a sovereign. And as Vojtěch Filip has the right to run and be elected, I have the right to say that I do not like his candidacy and that I will vote against it. That's just the way it is. I respect the outcome of the election. I'm not questioning it. But I say and report to it knowingly that it bothers me. Because you who have experienced foreign travels know that unlike others who say that they go on trips, that diplomatic language at the level of parliaments is not an easy discipline at all. It's not easy at all and it's quite exhausting. I myself, as a member of the delegation, have never been the Head of Delegation, have experienced several Heads of Delegation from different political parties, and I must say that I personally have evaluated their performance differently. For you, perhaps surprisingly - in the last parliamentary term, I think the best performance abroad was given by the Social Democrat, who is our long-term ideal rival, let us argue with him and we are competing for voters. But I think President Hamáček has performed really well abroad. President Kováčik has often witnessed this as I have. And I didn't care about political jurisdiction. And what's important is that when we were together abroad, we left our domestic disputes about EET, taxes, social and health systems at home, and there we all tried to work in favour of the Czech Republic. I never went on a foreign trip when Vojtěch Filip led the delegation, knowingly. I'm saying it out loud again. You might not like it. It is my free democratic decision, because I simply cannot identify with his view of the world, even though I respect the election results. I just remind you that sometimes we rejoice - the worst electoral result of communists in the history of not only the Czech Republic. I remember when we came here in 2013 and we had only 16 Members, as those who had stronger clubs looked at us with disdain. And since I remember, I'm not gonna give it back. It's not pleasant. It can happen to anyone. You're saying we're crying over the election results. No, we got up. We, apart from the ANO movement, are the only political party that defended and improved its election outcome. That it wasn't enough to win, that's obvious. However, we are satisfied with the result. We believe it'll be better next time. But I'm not gonna change my political mind, and I'm not gonna keep my mouth shut just because somebody doesn't like it, and just because I'm a minority. And if we sum up the events actually from October to today - we call it complaining? No. I don't think so. We're just pointing out a real-life coalition in the Chamber of Deputies, whether it's signed or not. It's confirmed every day. At every parliamentary meeting. You know what bothers me? Not that it works, I respect that. The fact that it doesn't make it clear that there's no clear way for the public to make a line, who's the government's majority, who's the opposition. And then we can proceed to a standard debate in the Chamber of Deputies on concrete bills. There is theoretically one government party - based on the results of the vote on trust - that is true - and eight opposition parties. But everything goes through the government. So it just doesn't work. It is not that we have one government and eight opposition parties. It couldn't even work mathematically. Yet the government is progressing in programming, personnel matters... And by the way, have you noticed anywhere else such a bizarre fact that a government with no confidence, which did not have a minute's trust in the House or Parliament, has traveled to the regions? Try to name me another country other than North Korea, where it is. They don't need that trust. Try to appoint me a government in Europe without trust, which has never had confidence, which organizes trips to the regions and promises representatives and citizens a bright tomorrow, even if it does not have the confidence of the House. If she had the confidence of the House, I would appreciate it for myself. But I say it's over and over again. But I don't want to go into details. You guys are really ready, yes, after everything you've heard since 2:30 p.m., to come back, and we're gonna act like nothing, and we're gonna start discussing state property laws, reports, etc.? [[Mr Vondrák nods in agreement.]] Mr. Governor Vondrák did. So you are one of those who did not want to talk about it, Mr Governor, through Mr President. I'm really disappointed. You can trust me or you can't. I'm really disappointed. I remember you from public life for years when you're in the public sphere. You know, not just me, but my colleagues, too, appreciated your performance at the head of the school. But your vote today... I don't think I understand him. Try to go back to school. Try to give a lecture with your students and say: I am, I have been among those, and enough of us about five or six who prevented the Chamber of Deputies from having a serious debate about what statements are acceptable in politics and which are not. As former rector, Emeritus, I'm telling you, it's the right thing to do when it's politically convenient for you, and it's not really all the same, but it just came in handy at the time, we just need 22 back-up votes for power reasons... [[Mr Hájek shouts: This is unfair because he cannot respond.]] Try... I'm happy to go to the debate. Yes, it cannot respond because, Mr Hájek through Mr President, you and your colleagues have made it impossible - they have made it impossible - to respond. [[Big applause on the right - Top 09 MEPs, STAN, KDU-ČSL, ODS, Pirates applaud.]] [[16.00 hours]] Don't clap. Our mistake. Once again, we did not protect the YES movement from the Yes movement's decision! [[Fun and applause on the right.]] It was Friday, it was yesterday, and it was today. We're always responsible for their decisions. It is my fault, although I voted in favour of the meeting, that Mr Vondrák cannot vote. From the logic of Mr Hájek's case, who voted against the programme. [[Member of Hájek from the place: I was delayed!]] It doesn't matter. As long as we're talking off the mike to accommodate you, if you don't have the right -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u39	I ask the Members not to conduct this type of dialogue. Anyone who wants to talk could speak behind the speaker's desk if there's a debate. There's no debate. Only those with priority rights can speak. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u40	I'm sorry, Mr Vice-President, I'm gonna stick to the Rules of Procedure. Those awkward excuses: I got held up. It's exactly the same as voting against it. You would have to vote 'yes' in order for Mr Vondrák to come forward. So if you complain, the usual advice: go to the bathroom and look in the mirror, there you will find the culprit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u41	President Kalousek, President Bělobrádek with priority right after him. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, if I may respond to the words of President Kováčik, who asked us: is this democracy for all of us? Yes, of course it is. Its processes apply, its mechanisms apply, and we take it as legitimate and, of course, that the majority overvotes the minority. But that, in itself, is not a democracy. That democracy is primarily what makes it worthwhile. When, after the terrible Second World War, Europe asked how it could happen that in countries with a deep culture and democratic tradition, Germany, Italy, horrible regimes prevailed, it replied that the values were not defined there, and the countries took over into their constitution the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms for whose protection the Council of Europe was established. And without this value, it's not a democracy, it's just a form, not content. That we take for granted, regardless of what our political view is, and what our ideal bases are, that we take for granted, that people are equal in their rights and dignity, not in the demand for consumption of course, but equal in their rights and dignity, and that they must not be seen for their religious beliefs, for their ethnicity, for their skin color, and forgive me, I do not want to speak further, you all know it, because it is part of our Constitution, but this value content is you, Members of the KSČM, YES and SPD, by not allowing this discussion at all, you have ignored and you have said: that democracy does not apply to everyone today, because when it does not suit us, we refuse to discuss it at all, even though someone on this value content is coughing! And you know... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Please, not in that bench in front of me! I beg you, scream wherever you want, but not in front of me! Then I'm not able to talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u43	Yes, it's my duty. I ask the honourable Members not to disturb the speaker and create room for everyone to speak and to listen to others. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u44	Thus, the value content, the ideals for our generation will always be associated with the student environment, because November 1989 belonged to the student, and since then academic land has been an important place of protection and cultivation of these values. And I saw two college professors today, as it happens, the rectors of their former universities, giving up without any embarrassment. I'm an ordinary engineer, I have no other degree, but lords of the rectum, exes, emeritus, and university professors, shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u45	Mr. Chairman Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u46	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the benches as they are half-empty. I believe that hearing some unpleasant words is hard and that it must be done, even if something is not pleasant, and that is why I appreciate those sitting here. Because there were all sorts of statements. And I would also return to what Mr Fiala, President of the SPD, has said here. He said that we actually wanted to prevent the emergence of a government, which basically said that the SPD would either be a direct or indirect coalition partner of the ANO movement. I think the vote we had here a moment ago - and I'm joining colleagues who have identified precisely that we did not vote to dismiss Vice-President Okamura. We voted on whether or not we would even discuss whether or not what was being criticized by a colleague here, Hájek, would be allowed to do this, and not for the first time! Just remember, he was already performing here, that there are those with priority rights, and the others. You could all come forward, you could all give your opinion if the discussion were allowed. And I think the absent chairman of the ANO movement here is making fools of us and of all citizens. He didn't want any coalition from the start except with the Communists and the SPD! He didn't have any other option at all, and he's just playing for time to make it look like it! That's why there was a government that didn't have a chance to gain confidence because they didn't even want any action! Now it's like they're negotiating with the Social Democrats, and then they say in the press that they don't really want them, that all they want is a minority government with support! And if it doesn't work with the Social Democrats, then the chairman of the SPD MP confirmed it to us indirectly that it's going to be with the SPD. So let's just say it like it is! Is that true? I'm convinced that's all this is about. And the Social Democrats may yet expect to be told that they won't go into a coalition with them because they wanted too much to go through. If they ask for four ministers, it'll be too much. If they ask for three, it'll be too much. If they ask for two, it'll be too much. Because there's a voting machine, there's a coalition of YES, SPD and Communists! I am convinced that what he said to you through Zbyněk Stanjura is true. And it is not only a question through President Pavel Kováčik, but also a colleague of the chairman of the SPD club here has created an enemy that does not exist to defeat him famously. I'm gonna make up something that's not, and then I'm gonna criticize it because I'm against it. I don't know that anytime there's a word that someone said or admitted that the Čech are responsible for Nazi crimes. Allow me to comment on the speech by Mr Kováčik, the President. The Czechoslovak Constitution, if I'm not mistaken, was very inspired by the constitution of the United States. And the fathers of the founders of the United States were terrified of the tyranny of the majority, because democracy is not only the rule of the majority, or even the tyranny of the majority, but also respects and respects the rights of minorities, as well as that minority. And that is the principle, the democratic principle. You say everyone has the same voice. I totally respect that, but it is important to remember which party, for example, got the most votes in 1935 and the most percent. Let's remember that. Well, they were henleins. They received the most votes and the most percent in Czechoslovakia in 1935. This also does not mean that their voices had less weight. Although they had one less mandate than agrarians, or Republicans, but that does not mean that everyone said they should have a prime minister or that they should be in government. It's not like that! [[16.10 hours]] Similarly, President Kováčik said that the outcome of the elections was due to the mistakes of democratic parties. I'm convinced he's absolutely right. Of course, whoever has history, and KDU-ČSL has been here for 99 years, so we've made some major mistakes. We've evaluated some things wrong, wrong, like the Kosice government program, the National Front. And I'll do it again. When he was talking to a former high communist with Pavel Tigrid, former comrade mlynář, he said to him, "You've been reading us wrong. Communists only share power when they have to. If they share power and want it, they're Social Democrats. You've read us wrong. And I believe that we have also heard clearly from Mr Ondráček's speech through the President that the democratic cesspool was not merely an expression of the fact that it identifies and labels what Pavel Kováčik often opposes through the President so that we do not label ourselves. So he didn't just label us, he insulted us. But it depends on who insults you. Because I find it very difficult for some people to offend me personally. The truth is that, in my opinion, it was not just the designation of specific political parties, but democracy as a system. I am convinced that KDU-ČSL has made mistakes in its history, we have our faults and we are also responsible for what has been going on here for the last 99 years. It's true, it's our predecessors' fault, it's our fault. And I'm not ashamed to say it here. This does not mean, however, that I have no right to criticize what is happening and to name things by their proper name. Dear colleagues, you have denied one of Masaryk's statements by not allowing discussion. We here on the anniversary of the birth of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk heard his name from the mouth of the President of the SPD. So we can repeat some of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk's remarks on this occasion. That is, "Democracy is a debate." So you cut it. But I won't comment on it anymore. Let me just say a few things, because there are a number of them. "The true love of the nation is a very beautiful thing. With a decent and honest person, she is herself. That's why we don't talk much about her. It's like a decent man doesn't tell the world his love for a woman and family." "Fascism is an anonymous company of disgruntled and rejected with limited liability for the production of political stories and robbers' stories." I have to admit, in many of the SPD's arguments, this reminds me of something. And to end it with something, let me finish with Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk's statement: "The leader of good will be the one who can serve and who feels that he himself is guided and who wants to be guided. " I think there'd be a lot more of them here, but I'll leave that for other opportunities to educate some of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u47	With priority rights on behalf of the club YES. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by our captains, who are represented here in the Chamber of Deputies, to answer through Mr Zbyňka Stanjur. On 4 January the Association of the Regions of the Czech Republic agreed with the government of the exits and it was at the request of the Association of the Regions of the Czech Republic. These trips were contracted until the middle of this year and they were not trips mainly to the regions YES, but started with Zlínský kraj, another region will be Liberecký, next will be Ústecký, then the region will be Vysočina, then the region Jihočeský. Therefore, they demanded that the government go to the regions, solve specific problems, take an interest in specific problems of people, specific interests of the regions, and reserve myself against any government's peacock action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u49	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u50	I would ask Mr Kubíček, who I have good relations with to listen to me. Did I say it's government peacock action? I didn't! Then don't protest what I didn't say. It's a really popular discipline and it's unfair. I said, do you know a bizarre situation in Europe where a government goes to regions or regions without trust? I don't. Everywhere in Europe, they understand that the basic task is to gain confidence. Then I also said that if the government had confidence that I would appreciate government trips to the regions. I don't understand what you're getting off to. So try to give me - the President of the Association of Regions is smiling at me so nicely - so try to give me, Madame, through the President, a list of European countries where the government in resignation, or a government that didn't have a second of confidence, goes out to the regions and deals with the captains, by chance with Jiří Čunek, whether it was none of the YES. It's okay if the government had faith. That is a basic democratic rule. And I know, your chairman says it, I've heard it repeatedly: What's with the trust? Stop it, what's with the trust? We work for people. Well, that's a real misunderstood democracy. So when you have the government's confidence, I'll be the first to appreciate that the government's going to the regions. But I already said that in my first performance. You don't have to tease me about that. So I'm talking about the goat, you're talking about the cart. And try, you must have a lot of analysts, try to find another European country. And it doesn't have to be after 2000, it could be before 2000. A bizarre situation that a government without trust goes to regions and makes promises for four years. When he's confident, that's good. So far, it is the words of Mr Kubíček of the PR action of the government in demise, without any confidence as you wish. You really act like you get 51 percent of the mandate. Luckily, you don't have them. And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, from 15.45 until the end of today's meeting, Minister Němcová apologizes; for health reasons, Mr Gazdík apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of the day; for reasons of foreign travel, Mr František Kopřiva between 16.30 a.m. and Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes from 15 a.m. to 16 a.m. due to participation in the inauguration of the Rector of Charles University. Madam Members, we have discussed the programme set out for the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with this. I note that a technical break is necessary for at least 10 minutes to continue the discussion of the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so I note that the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 16.30. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u52	Colleagues, I'm sorry, but we really need at least 30 minutes to meet the MP. So, please, if I can take a 15-minute break at the beginning of the next meeting, so I don't have to bother you right at the beginning of the meeting, and we'll start at 16.45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-009-01-000-000.u53	Yes, the 7th meeting will begin at 16.45 a.m.
