ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-006-016.u1	16. Proposal by Members Tomáš Martínek, Jakub Michálek, Ivan Bartoš, Jiří Mihola, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of the law on the selection of persons in the management and control bodies of legal persons with the ownership of the state and ownership policy of the state (nomination law) /German press 129/ - first reading Let me remind you, we're at an interrupted point at first reading. We interrupted him in front of the rapporteur's final word. I ask that Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mr Tomáš Martínek, or someone else, the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Květa Matušovská, take the position of the draftsman's representative at the rapporteur's table. We have a vote before us on the proposals - I am referring to returning the proposal to the applicant for completion, but it has not been tabled in the general debate; to reject, in the general debate he was delivered 30. 5. and the vote on the motion to reject may be followed. Now, we're going to deal with it, but before that, I see Mr. Michálek, President of the Pirates' Club, and I give him my word. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-006-016.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been here several times for the nomination bill. It is a proposal that would finally ensure that people would be nominated for our supervisory councils by transparent procedure. It is therefore a proposal against political trades. I'd like to ask all of you for his support. And I would like to remind you that the last time I asked here in the debate was a few questions from the Prime Minister who was not present. So today we have another government, and the Prime Minister is not here again. So let me remind you that there were two questions. For one thing, I asked what happened to Mr Krejsa, which is a different person from a Member of the Chamber of Deputies. He is Mr. Filip's advisor and sits on the Supervisory Board of the Czech Post and allegedly has 160 thousand. Crowns a month. Well, that seemed kind of strange to me, and I wanted to ask you how many such members or nominees of the KSČM are sitting on those supervisory boards today. And then I asked one more question, and that's how the coalition agreements between the ANO and the KSČM movement are adjusted. This means how many supervisory boards the KSČM has to receive. Unfortunately, neither of these questions was answered by the Prime Minister. He escaped from today's debate on the nomination law, so I feel more like he's just playing the anti-corruption fighter, and when there's really to be a vote on those substantial bills that would finally introduce transparent leadership councils, he's not here. In our proposal against the government proposal, the advantage is that it concerns the occupation of supervisory boards and, on the one hand, the ownership policy is also regulated, as developed states such as Sweden, Finland etc. have it, so that the fundamental issues such as the division of ČEZ and other similar strategic issues that will affect the next few decades, decide, or at least know, and be consulted with Parliament, not to be dealt with by the government itself. This may also happen to us that, just as the government has sold OKD, it can sell part of ČEZ in this way without Parliament knowing at all. So that's why it's important that we approve the nomination bill today. I think it's a positive thing to help fight corruption. And I'd like a member of the government to comment on that, because otherwise I don't really understand why they're sitting here. Because if we ask them a question and they have to answer under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, none of them will actually answer the question. Well, it sounds to me like we're kind of denying the House of Deputies' Rules of Procedure here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-006-016.u3	Thank you. That was Chairman Michálek. Now, President Faltýnek. I warn you that we are outside the debate, we are before the vote, so I can hardly give a word to anyone other than the one who has the priority right. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-006-016.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am very sorry through Mr President. Me mostly, virtually. almost at all, when a colleague of Michálek performs, I don't listen to him because it's a waste of time for me. However, my colleague Milan Feranec has asked me here to respond to the performance of my colleague Michálek, who, once again - how to say this culturally - says stupid things. There is no coalition agreement between YES and KSČM. There's a tolerance agreement. There's a difference. There is a coalition agreement between YES and ČSSD. That's true, but not with KSČM. And in this agreement on tolerance, about places or numbers, as you say, my colleague, there is not a word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-006-016.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister Faltýnek. I note that an apology has been received from the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Václav Klaus between 15.30 and 19.00 for work reasons. If there is no one with priority rights, we can address the motion for rejection, which fell in the general debate on 30 May this year at least from Mr Adam Kalous and others. We're gonna decide on this motion in vote number thirty-three, but I'm gonna sign you all out before I ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, I will continue to engage, we will decide on the proposal in the vote. [[He's waiting for a while.]] The number of entries has stabilized. Initiating vote number 33 and asking who is in favour of rejecting the proposed bill. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 33, 140 for 92, compared to 33. The motion was accepted. The bill was rejected and that concludes the hearing. Thank you to the appellants, thank you to the rapporteur, and end with point 16. We will continue with the point
