ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 167/2008 Sb., on the prevention and correction of environmental damage and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 173/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by Prime Minister Richard Brabec, Minister of the Environment. [[He's already standing by the microphone.]] Minister, I was going to ask you to take the floor, but you're already there, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not losing a second. This is kind of a specific case, because in this case, it is a government bill amending Law No. 167/2008 on environmental damage. And the amendment is presented simply because we are responding, or we need to respond to the European Commission's initiation of an infringement procedure, when the European Commission has already issued a reasoned opinion at the moment addressed to the Czech Republic, in which it accuses us of the incorrect implementation of the article. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whereas: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In particular, it is the provisions of a directive providing for specific rights of non-governmental organisations seeking environmental protection in the field of environmental damage. Although the Czech Republic has repeatedly opposed the European Commission's criticisms in its observations, the Commission has not accepted the Czech Republic's arguments and requests redress from the Czech Republic. At this point, we are therefore forced to proceed to the amendment of Act No. 167/2008 Coll., otherwise we would be threatened with an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[18.40 hours]] And now specifically what's going on. It is relatively, forgive me the word, it is spicy as far as application practice is concerned, so no case of such serious environmental damage has been identified in the Czech Republic, which also applies to this law, which would require a procedure under Act No. 167/2008. Moreover, from the point of view of practice, and we have also stressed to the European Commission, the Czech Environment Inspection, which is the main body responsible for taking initiatives in terms of suspected environmental damage and for issuing corrective decisions, has not yet recorded any request from any NGO in this respect. The same applies to the Ministry of Environment. Nevertheless, despite everything, the European Commission blames the Czech Republic that this is not well transformed. What exactly is this about? It is therefore a rephrasing of the provisions of § 8 para. In order to make it clear that proceedings for the imposition of preventive or corrective measures can be initiated at the request of the Member State or through official authority, both of which are equivalent, and should therefore be directed, in the opinion of the European Commission, towards a clear definition of all the authorisations of non-governmental organisations seeking to protect the environment guaranteed by the directive. Given that we are in a certain time frame and, of course, also because I believe that there are no major amendments in the committee debate, these are indeed amendments in a few brief paragraphs, so I would then like to ask for a reduction in the deadline for the committee's proposal to 30 days in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u3	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Dana Balcarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the content of the draft amendment to Act No. 167/2008 is a clear definition of the right of non-profit organisations seeking environmental protection to participate in decision-making in the prevention and correction of environmental damage. The amendment corrects the incorrect transposition of the European Parliament Directive, where civil society has not been sufficiently taken into account, and confers on non-profit organisations the right to submit to the competent authority any comments relating to environmental damage cases and the right to require the competent authority to take action under the Directive. At the same time, such an organisation will have the explicit legal right to become a party to proceedings for the termination of preventive or corrective measures. I would like to stress that the amendment does not apply to all environmental damage, but only to damage caused in soil, water and habitats of Natura 2000 protected species. I would like to ask you for the support of this amendment, because I consider it very important, and at the same time I am asking for the commandment to be discussed in the Guarantee Committee to which the Committee on the Environment has been designated. On the Minister's proposal to shorten the hearing period, I would like to add that I will not agree to this because I do not think the amendment is that simple. The law has never been applied in the Czech Republic, but in other European countries, such as Poland and Hungary, it is very widely used and it is not only because they could not participate in a nonprofit organization. We don't really know exactly what it was, but in Poland, the amendment was used a thousand times, about 50 percent in case of soil damage, 30 percent in water damage and 20 percent in Natura 2000, so we think there may still be some buried dog in the amendment to the law, and we would like to address this committee because we consider the amendment to the law to be very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u5	Thank you, ma'am. And I am now opening up a general debate in which Mr Jan Zahradník came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been coming as we have for several times in this parliamentary term and, in fact, countless times in the past period to discuss a law that is very hard, uncompromisingly enforced by the European Commission. She's basically threatening that we need to accept her proposals, or we're going to be led against the procedure known as infringement, which is something awful that could probably wipe us off the face of the Earth. The Minister gave the emphasis to warn us about the impact of the EU's punishing hand, and the rapporteur, in turn, assessed the positive side of the matter, which, of course, is absolutely appropriate from the point of view of environmental organisations. So what's the proposal really about? The Minister has said it quite vaguely here. To date, in the present law, applications for the initiation of proceedings may have been submitted by natural or legal persons affected by environmental harm or for whom such prejudice is presumed or likely. This was then responded by the authority of the official institutions responsible for this: Czech environmental inspection or Ministry of the Environment. The proposal here proposes, and the proposed law states, that this right will also be enjoyed by a legal person of private law, whose subject matter is the protection of the environment under the founding legal act, and its main activity is not entrepreneurship or other gainful activity, i.e. a non-governmental, non-profit, environmental organisation - the DOUHA Movement, Children of the Earth or other environmental organisation. Lawyers - environmentalists are therefore entitled to submit comments related to environmental injury cases. They may request the competent authority to be informed without undue delay of any proceedings initiated for a period of one year from the date of application, of the imposition of preventive measures. This right applies only to environmental non-profits, to the natural or legal persons concerned it does not apply in this law, but I hope that their law will be from other legal degrees. Moreover, and this is important, the parties to the proceedings become those legal persons who submitted the application for the initiation of the procedure but did not, according to their submission, take place. So, nonprofits again. So they return to the game with the possibility of becoming parties to the proceedings. And now sanctions. The Minister spoke of sanctions. I'll read here from the explanatory report what sanctions could be. About two miles. The euro in a one-time manner. If we fail to meet the European Commission's demands, we will suddenly have to pay 52 miles. CZK, if we wanted to confront this position of the European Commission. And then 10 grand. EUR per day, monthly 7 million. 800 thousand. CZK until the remedy is resolved, i.e. before the pressure - and here I am not afraid to say blackmail pressure - by the European Commission, we will submit and accept their proposal. Indeed, very unchoosy financial sanctions. The law went through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, he was granted an exemption from the obligation to carry out an assessment of the effects of this regulation, i.e. the so-called. RIA did not have to be done because, after careful analysis of all possible consequences, no social or economic impacts on natural or legal persons were identified, nor were any impacts on public budgets or on the business environment of the Czech Republic found. [[18.50 hours]] And here it must be said that who knows how environmental organisations work in our country, how they are able to delay the construction of the D1 motorway, how they are able to constantly submit to all the degradations that are being done in the process of approving the construction, their comments, delaying by hundreds of days, the years of the start of these buildings, what bad experience our public has with these organizations, so I must disagree very much, because this can bring significant consequences for the delays in constructions. To the fact that our buildings will simply be subjected again by far greater force to the terror of environmental activists. The proposal was submitted to the government formally without contradictions, but there were some proposals. The Ministry of Transport, whose comment pointing out the possibility of extending and increasing the realization of buildings, has been addressed with an explanation that there is no such concern that there would be an increase in the price and extension of the constructions, there is no reason. The Ministry of Regional Development pointed out that non-governmental non-profit organisations in the field of the environment are in a very privileged position in our country, granting them strong procedural rights by law and that is a reason for frequent abuse. Abuse is also done by activist groups. Here they proposed - MMR - to complete the requirement that all the accounting of such organisations be kept on a transparent account so that the origin of the revenue and the purpose of the expenditure transactions is known. That was in the proposal I was able to find in the interreort, but it didn't get into the law. Another fundamentally negative comment was submitted by the Chamber of Commerce. They write that it is right that the right to lodge in the framework of protection against environmental harm may be put at risk by the authorities concerned, the institutions in question, for which such prejudice is likely. However, non-State non-profit organisations cannot have the status of a public prosecutor, the Chamber of Commerce wrote, and they cannot submit applications for the initiation of proceedings without prejudice to environmental harm. According to Article 8 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market Thus, the Chamber suggested that the possibility of filing submissions to state institutions, which then acted out of authority. She refused to increase their authority so enormously to nonprofits, activists, without taking any responsibility for their actions. This fundamental observation of the Chamber has been dealt with, so-called, with reference to imminent sanctions by the EU. So we are to submit to their pressure, we are to submit to their extortion. And here you have to ask yourself, is there any chance that there's no time to stand up to this blackmail? For non-governmental non-profit organizations, this law is quite a good thing here, because they have been deprived of the possibility to participate in the construction proceedings in some cases by amending the construction law in the last parliamentary term. They've been very hard on it. They were trying to bring back their right to participate in the proceedings. They didn't succeed. I think they certainly welcome this possibility, which I think will take very initiative. So their space, which has narrowed down, can again be extended by this law. They could once again present their ideological intentions in blocking publicly beneficial buildings, apply them, and delay and expensive these buildings. Applications can be filed repeatedly, which creates an opportunity to delay indefinitely, as we see today on the D11 motorway. This law therefore makes non-governmental non-profits a privileged group of residents, which, without any professional or other prerequisites, can enter processes where other untouched citizens cannot. And yet there is no indication of any basic liability for the damage that may be caused by this obstruction or also due to requests that will be filed unjustly, where it turns out that their request... it is impossible to comply. But they will continue to act as participants in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor so that I, on the one hand, should very much reject this law and therefore make a motion to reject it at first reading. In the event that this proposal is not approved, I also submit a proposal to return the bill to the Government for recasting, in order to reflect on the extent to which it is right to put such a powerful instrument in the hands of non-governmental environmental organisations, such a powerful weapon that they will use without embarrassment and without any responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u7	Thank you. Now I'll read the apology. Please excuse my absence - Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes. It shall take place from 18.30 to the end of the date of the hearing. Now, Mr. Václav Klaus. I'd just like to point out that the deal is that we're done at 7:00. So I'm just asking if you're counting on it. You're aware of that. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u8	I'm really gonna get off tonight for the last time. I would just like to point out to the honourable House how wonderful it was to discuss the last law. In my eyes, it's such a marginality. It's been discussed by the House about 17 times. It's been changing the opening times and the size of the spaces. But you made your own decision. Here are the left-wing representatives who are close to the employees. They voted to reject it. We've got a representative here again who thinks Sunday's supposed to be at church or on a holiday. They were against it, too. Most of us were for something. But it was our free will. With this law, we're like a gubernia again. We've already approved it once, and they're telling us again, wrong, wrong. Give it more credit! And here, under the threat of sanctions, we're gonna raise our hand again. Mr Kalousek will probably come to tell me that these are our laws. Not like... Even if it's theirs. I just want to draw attention to this situation that we are facing here. And kind of as didactically as I wanted to tell you if we were aware of that. How lovely it was to talk about such in quotes of stupidity as opening hours of business, because everyone here has shown their will and it's gonna turn out somehow. Maybe we'll discuss this nine more times. We're like a gubernie here. We live under that dictation. Pass it or you'll pay the fines! OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK. And I guess that's how most of you end up approving it. But you shouldn't do that, and you should be happy to push that button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u9	Thank you. And there's room for an actual comment. Mr. Ferjenčík reporting. The next one is Mr Munzar, but we will see how it works out in time. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u10	Thank you for the floor. He did not do so, Mr President, so I dare to inform Mr President Klaus that we have already discussed the law about an hour ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u11	Thank you. Mr Munzar with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u12	I'm gonna use that last minute. Thank you, Mr President. Just to focus your attention on a script we know well. The same scenario was here in the last parliamentary term and related to the EIA Act, when the European Commission also came up with the idea that there would be infraringement, that there was insufficient transposition, that there was little involvement in the public concerned, and here in our legal system, we did so by giving incredible powers to non-profit organizations and the possibility of blocking further constructions. And now, unfortunately, that's what we're dealing with. And I'm afraid it shouldn't be the same in this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-11-ps2017-019-01-008-025.u13	Thank you. I hereby adjourn the meeting. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
