ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u1	17. The proposal of Members of Vít Rakušan, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Věra Kovářová, Jana Krutáková and Petr Pávek to issue a law amending Act No. 277/2013 Sb., on exchange activities, as amended /house print 83/ - first reading Mr. Deputy plaintiffs Vít Rakušan is present, taking his seat at the rapporteur's table. I will ask Mr Stanislav Blaha, who is the rapporteur for first reading, and I will also ask Mr Vít Rakušan to present the proposal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, members and members of the Government of the Czech Republic, honourable colleagues, we come to you with a simple amendment to the Exchange Act. First of all, let me say what this point relates to meritorically and what it should correct in the current legislation. It is the case that in recent years we have been monitoring the fraudulent activities of the exchange offices, especially in the centre of the capital city of Prague, where in various ways we succeed in cheating tourists who come to our exchange offices in good faith that the exchange rate will receive the corresponding financial value for the exchange. Unfortunately, tourists are often deceived in a variety of ways. Despite the fact that the exchange law introduced a term or obligation for the client to sign the shift, there are still situations that I personally convinced myself about yesterday in the field, in the most sophisticated exchange office in the middle of the capital city of Prague in the Old Town Square. A tourist will come, and if he doesn't ask - and here I say the word again - he will not ask for a better course, he will eventually find out that he has the euro for 17 Czech crowns without more attention. Yesterday we really tried this and tried a simple mechanism. We came to the money exchanger and asked him to do so - Sir, we are not satisfied with the exchange, give us back the money, we are advertising the exchange trade. At that moment he answered us: but you have read everything! With a little letter like that written on the ticket downstairs or in the back of the money exchange, where the tourist can't even see, everything's okay, you've signed a valid shift ticket here, and I have nothing to claim. And this is where we come to the moment that we want to correct in the exchange bill. We realize that this is a complex law, but we do not think that it is a dysfunctional law in its entirety. We do not even think that the sanctions imposed on currency exchange companies that are cheating are currently being set in some way wrong. However, we are now not even going to impose any sanctions on currency exchange in any way, to increase sanctions, etc. We are going in the easiest way that legal regulation allows, in the current version of the Exchange Act, to add a short paragraph to the fact that it is possible to claim this exchange transaction two hours after the exchange. If this possibility existed and the tourist would actually find out when recounting - by the way we found a terrified group of tourists there yesterday, they were young students from England who said how we got the euro for 17, it doesn't correspond to the course that is shown there. But at that point, they didn't have any power or opportunity to get their money back, because the law of the complaint doesn't allow the shift. Therefore, we would like to ask you too much to make this law, which will certainly call for discussion and certainly raise further comments on the exchange law itself, for the whole activity to be released for second reading, for a simple reason. We've been detecting this problem for more than two years. The Czech National Bank pointed out this, and the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic also agreed with this opinion, and the Czech National Bank has just issued a recommendation that this particular point should be implemented in the framework of the legal environment in the Czech Republic, because it can significantly help the reputation of the Czech Republic in the eyes of tourists. After all, we cannot go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on It's not just Janek Rubeš, a journalist who's been doing this for a long time, whose videos you could see, but it's for example. also the National Geographic programme, which charted two areas of fraudulent activity in Prague - first of all taxi services, second of all exchange activities. I think that this provision, even provisionally before some more complex amendment to the exchange law, can be made possible quite quickly to prevent tourists from being robbed in the centre of the capital city of Prague in the part of the tourist season this year. In order to be objective and not to touch all the exchangers, we tried various exchange offices in the centre of Prague yesterday on our walk and I have to say that some of them work quite standardly, all the conditions are published transparently, visibly and the rates and fees are listed as they are to be mentioned, and tourists are not misled. Thus, this measure will not affect honest exchangers in any way, but will make life much more difficult for those who cheat. And let me say one last thing. I also consulted the Police of the Czech Republic and asked them if there were any reports from tourists in the center of Prague that they had been cheated. The reports were, but the police arrived at the scene, the tourists complained and said: we thought that the exchange was carried out under different conditions, however, the exchanger showed the signed ticket and the police officer the situation, if spoken in a foreign language, had not been able to deal with it very effectively, on the grounds that it was a claim against the claim. The client said, "I didn't know about the terms," the exchanger pulled out the paper: we got it signed by you. There wasn't really anything to deal with. If there was a chance for a complaint that the police officer would have known about the legal regulations, he could have advised the tourist at that point to just claim the exchange transaction. So much for an introduction. Thank you for your attention. Again, I am prepared for any broader expert discussion within the next legislative process, but I think that, for the sake of good, it would be worth letting the law go into further discussion within the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u3	Thank you and I have two procedural matters ahead of me, first of all, Mr Blaha is duly excused. The Organizational Department has brought me a proposal from the Budget Committee that it should be represented by Mr Ferjenčík, a party colleague, and the Club President has suggested that he should also represent him. I respect the fact that we have an organizational decision that comes from the budget committee. So first the rapporteur, and then I see the priority right of the President of the Pirates Michálek Club, because otherwise he would have been given the floor in the debate. So first, we will decide on the rapporteur instead of Mr Blaha. First, we will vote on Mr Ferjenčík, if he is not approved, his party colleague Zbyněk Stanjura is reporting. [[Congratulations.]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u4	I'd make it simple. I don't want that. Only Mr Blaha asked if he wasn't the rapporteur to take over. But if he's a candidate, you just have to vote once for the proposal. I'm downloading it. I don't want to complicate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u5	Okay, well, I have to vote on the alternate rapporteur. That is Mr Ferjenčík. I've started the 45-order vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 45: 122 for 106, against no one. We have a reporter. The rapporteur will not be given the floor yet because he will be overtaken by his party colleague with priority rights outside the debate. Mr. Michálek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. When I worked as a representative of the capital city of Prague, we of course also discussed this exchange office. We were dealing with a colleague named Nacher. I even submitted a bill to the representative of the capital city of Prague, which, contrary to the law, did not reach the meeting of the council of the capital city of Prague because Mrs. Mayor Krnáčová drowned it somewhere. Unfortunately, the situation here is really very bad, because here we have a group, and it is not by far all currency exchange, there are a lot of quality exchange offices in the center of Prague, but unfortunately there are exchange offices that operate in such a parasitic way that they abuse disoriented tourists. Basically, it's exactly the same thing as when so-called business scumbags abuse disoriented seniors and sell them some pots or blankets, take them to their place and abuse their disorientation. I think that the proposal that is put forward is a step in the right direction, and I was also a witness myself, along with Rubeš Jank, who showed it to me on the spot. She just comes to the Japonka exchange, puts her money in, and how much does she get back for it? For one euro, he gets 15 crowns. So this way. And then, of course, she wonders when she leaves the window, and then two minutes later, she wonders what happened there. She'll be back, and of course no one's gonna give her her money back. Because the whole thing that these currency exchanges do is legal under our laws. So it is not even possible to sanction the Czech National Bank and it needs to change the law. If we don't change the law, these parasitic exchange offices will continue to abuse disoriented tourists, thus damaging the reputation of Prague's capital, which is a tourist centre, and, of course, all the tens and hundreds of millions that the capital of Prague invests in tourism to increase its prestige abroad will be spent in vain. That's why I'm glad the law's here. So we wanted to present something similar, but we were waiting for the Ministry of Finance to come up with its own novel. But I think that since the government is in remission and has not yet submitted the proposal - I was counting on it to be presented in February and, as has already been rightly said here, the Czech National Bank has actually come up with the initiative for a number of months back - so I think it is logical for the Chamber of Deputies to discuss it. So I warmly recommend this bill, and I think that if the Ministry of Finance comes up with any improvements, it can apply it through Members at second reading if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u7	Well, thank you. This was part of the debate rather than outside the debate, but there is nothing that can be done. I respected the right of priority. So now the rapporteur approved for the first reading, Mr Ferjenčík, will speak. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u8	Thank you for the floor. I think we can all agree that the situation in exchange is unhappy at the moment. After all, the government is working on a comprehensive amendment, which unfortunately, as it seems, has a delay against the original assumption. That is why I personally welcome the parliamentary initiative. Let me give you a specific example of what's going on at the main station. It's a very typical example of how it works. You have a blackboard with courses where they are glowing font odds for the euro, per dollar, for those world currencies and below it is an inscription which is no longer glowing, that there is an additional fee of 20 percent. So the tourist comes in, looks at the courses, he says, "So be it." He puts the money in, he gets the euro back, and then he recounts it, finds it doesn't match, and then he notices the 20 percent charge. I think it's perfectly logical for us to allow the transaction to be canceled in such cases, to normally return the money, and the tourist would get the value back. So I think that's a very good attitude. We will certainly have to deal with some technical details of the amendment at second reading in relation to exchange rate changes, in relation to other types of traffic than just physical exchange offices, typically exchange machines, and surely the proposal needs some legislative control, that there will not really be any unforeseen phenomena that we have forgotten. I think we need to check it out. However, given that it would be good to catch the tourist season, and given that the government also has the greatest incentive to work quickly on this proposal, I recommend releasing the proposal for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u9	I thank the rapporteur for his report and open the debate. Mr. Petr Vrána is the first enrollee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I propose rejecting the amendment to the Act on Exchange Activities at first reading for the membership club YES. The reason for the motion to dismiss is the fact that a comprehensive amendment to the law at the Ministry of Finance is being prepared at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher and then the representatives of the appellants in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, kind government, thank you for your word. I'm gonna elaborate a little bit on what my colleagues said, actually, everyone in front of me. For one thing, I'm confirming that this is a real problem that we've been dealing with for months, maybe several years. The problem is not only with the exchange in the Old Town Square, but as I am able to try, even at the Main Railway Station for example. And I would point out that it's not just the course that's the problem. The only thing we're talking about here is that the money exchange is trying to take the tourists at a disadvantageous course in quotation marks. It is often a hidden fee or an offer of other services associated with the shift itself, such as the sale of overpriced maps etc. In other words, I appreciate the content. It bothers me a little because, as my colleague Jakub Michálek said here, we were even at the Czech National Bank together. We discussed this with each other as representatives of the capital city of Prague or as Members. As the appellant put it here at the beginning, he says it is a simple matter, a simple amendment that can be adopted immediately. It seems a shame to me the moment there's a government proposal that's gonna be here in a month, that means not waiting that month for us to deal with it comprehensively. And by complex, I mean not only to deal with the cancellation itself, but we have to deal with a whole bunch of other things there. First of all, when and what kind of business this cancellation is going to be about. In that proposal, there is no amount limited to its amount. The draft of the Ministry of Finance has proposed a thousand euros so far, which according to statistics of the Czech National Bank covers about 95 percent of the shops, we can talk about that amount. But I think that's an important segment of this thing. [[11.30 hours]] What I think is most important is that the proposal, or I didn't notice it, isn't essential information about the right to resign, which should be on the course ticket so that the tourist finds out. Furthermore, the proposal does not address the shifts that would be dealt with through the exchange machines. So, if we're going to do this, in the currency exchange amendment, we need to solve all the situations that are involved in this, in my opinion. Not just the money exchange, but the moment you use the machine. That means - I'll cut it short so I don't prolong it. One more time. Contents, I agree with him. I even talked to the translator about it. I just feel a shame about the moment we have a comprehensive proposal from the Ministry of Finance within a month, so it seems a shame to be dealing with some sort of partial matter here right now, because we all feel like we need to do something about it in this room. Then let's talk about the details, if it's supposed to be two hours, three hours, as it is with the closing hours and so on, because, by the way, the devil is often hidden in that detail. But please, let's do this complexly, let's not do this one change now, in a month's time, the Ministry of Finance's proposal will be here, and we'll actually do it in identical, albeit more widespread form. I'll ask my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u13	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher. We have two factual points ahead of us, Jiří Dolejš and Marek Benda, and then the Minister of Finance's priority right. Then the MP Vít Rakušan is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. First Mr Dolejš, then Mr Benda, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u14	I don't know if I'm going to contribute to a more peaceful discussion of this proposal, but I just wanted to gloss over the previous speakers, especially from the club YES. We discussed the proposal of our fellow Members or discussed it on the ground of the subcommittee on banking. I must say that the petitioners have taken a factual stand, including the information that a complex proposal from the government workshop is approaching, but at the same time, we have said to ourselves, for God's sake, why cut short at this stage on the initiative of those who have come up with a certain proposal. To use the words of a classic, it has somehow spread to us in the last few weeks a certain disorder, that YES already in the sense that it bears the legislative weight as the Atlas of the vault of heaven, yet it is a government in demise. I think it will not hurt at this stage if there are parliamentary initiatives and promises, but we do not yet know how it will turn out, a certain complex and government solution, which sounds a little bit like abraka dabra, such a universal formulation, if it would not be easier to leave that parliamentary proposal running at least until we can be sure of how the government actually did it. He reached these conclusions, including with the participation of Mr Nacher and other subcommittees on banking, by recommending to his setting-up budget committee to discuss this calmly and in this way. It may inspire you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u15	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš for his time on the point of fact. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this happens to me about once every ten years, but I must say that I exceptionally agree with my previous speaker, Mr Dolejš, from the Communist Party. I wanted to say the very same thing. Promising government proposals from a government that's in remission and we don't know if it'll be like this in a week's time, another month's time, seems at least very strange to me. And at the same time defend against the parliamentary proposals - reject them? And I was already angry at Mr. Vrána's speech. At least my colleague Nacher is trying to make a point of saying what they might be like, but to come here and say, "I propose to reject, because the government may be preparing something," I find it at least disrespectful to this House. They're supposed to be making some arguments here and not feeling like "our government's about to make a move." I think that if there really are no substantive objections to the proposal and I'm just saying, "maybe something else is to be adjusted," it's much more correct to let him go into second reading. Even delay the budget committee, if any, if such a government proposal comes up, and then possibly involve it in the government proposal, or say "government proposal solves it." But rejecting something just because it's coming prematurely seems to me simply wrong and undignified to this House especially in a situation where I don't know if the government proposal and what government really has a chance to come from. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with the priority right of Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. The Rakušan will prepare himself. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me just present the factual reasons why this amendment should not be approved. I would like to start by stressing that we support the cultivation of exchange activities. There is no doubt about this, and in this regard this proposal aims in the right direction. However, we have finally adopted a negative one; the government has taken a negative, disagreeable position on this parliamentary proposal. And the factual reasons rest in the following. There are a number of unsolved questions relating to the withdrawal from the Exchange Trade Agreement, which simply does not address the parliamentary proposal. For example, it is not clear how the customer is to know about the right to withdraw from the contract at all, while offering information on the exchange note or on the proof of execution of the exchange. Furthermore, there is no solution to the situation where the exchange office is closed, for example due to illness, and the customer simply cannot resign. There is also a lack of withdrawal adjustment for shifts made through a money exchange machine. In practice, practical problems could also arise if the customer has the right to withdraw from the shift at any exchange office. For example, a sufficient supply of all currencies in all establishments would be needed. Of course, the government is aware that the Ministry of Finance has prepared a proposal, a comprehensive proposal that is discussed with the Czech National Bank in the final details. And basically, we are now in a phase where the inter-ministerial commentary procedure ended on 23 March 2018, and basically by the end of April, this proposal for a government is going to leave, and I am counting in mid-May, it could be in the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal also includes an adjustment to the withdrawal from the Exchange Trade Agreement and seeks to address related issues. Let me give you a more detailed description of the problem. The embassy proposal you are discussing today introduces the possibility to withdraw within two hours of the exchange agreement. The possibility of resigning is given only to consumers. The reason for the introduction is also to prevent disputes in currency exchange, especially in the centre of Prague. The disputes concern mainly foreign tourists. In general, the government agrees to strengthen the position of customers in exchange offices, but this should be done after a thorough analysis of the current situation and impact of possible changes. So the Ministry of Finance has essentially prepared this amendment in this complex. The main reasons why we believe that this amendment should not be approved and should not be discussed have been expressed. It is in those issues that are not addressed, and the amendment will raise a number of other issues, which will then have to be further regulated by legislation. Of course, last but not least, I draw attention to the fact that there are a number of legislative technical deficiencies that this proposal has. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u19	Thank you, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Before I give the floor to Mr Rakušan, I state two apologies to the President of the House, namely the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Jaroslava Němcová and Mr Stanislav Berkovec, at Stanislav Berkovec, to sign off within 13 hours and at the Minister from 11 o'clock for working reasons until the end of the meeting. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for the discussion and the comments that have been made here, thank you for the comments on the fact that the proposal, as Mr Dolejš said, has also been properly discussed in the subcommittee on banking, where I myself took part in this discussion. After the discussion, I just felt that there was some sort of consensual view of the whole thing, and that the proposal, even if it might be legitimate to comment on the technical nature of it, deserved to go to second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have a government here in a month when this proposal is promised to the Chamber of Deputies, if the government presents its proposal, which will actually be much better, more comprehensive, I will not really be the one to stand up to the last breath, minutes and seconds for my, objectively, at that point, if we find out, the worse proposal remains alive and compete with something that, as the secretary says, is perfectly prepared. However, let me make two comments after all. YES sits at the City Hall in Prague for almost four years. A legislative initiative could have been addressed by the Magistrate a long time ago. The Czech National Bank drew attention to this problem two years ago and recommended a solution. In the meantime, if the government had not been able to prepare a comprehensive proposal, we have embarked on a parliamentary initiative that - I acknowledge - addresses the most pressing issues in the currency exchange law. And even if the proposal to proceed to second reading should be some kind of acceleration of the government's work, a kind of promise that the comprehensive and perfect amendment will actually come, let it be so, and I say at the House plenary now that the moment we meet and after the debate in the Banking Sub-Committee, the resolution will actually be such that the government amendment is better, then at second reading, I am willing to come forward with my proposal not being further discussed. But I think that at this stage, when the government proposal has not been presented to us, it just deserves a rational, territorially correct matter to advance to second reading. With the fact that it simply addresses an objectively existing problem on the basis of the parliamentary initiative, which is why - and I stress once again - neither the Prague City Council nor the previous government came up with the solution to this problem. If they say it will be in a month, we have great hope that a perfect and comprehensive solution will actually come, but I have no reason to urge you not to support this proposal for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u21	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate. I said, who else? Mr Václav Klaus is still reporting with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u22	I was just listening, I found out about it now. It is not very clear to me why a law should be adopted concerning several exchange offices in the centre of Prague. If anyone's cheating, have the police lock him up. But I don't know why the exchangers in Trutnov, Ostrava and others who, in your opinion, are honest in some way. When someone's cheating, it's about the police, isn't it? I don't really understand why the law is adopted when someone's cheating. There are a lot of people who don't cheat, who make life awfully difficult in my opinion. Those who are honest and live by exchanging money for tourists, such as in the Giant Mountains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u23	I thank Mr Václav Klaus for his time. Now, Mr Vít Rakušan's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u24	Thank you for saying the same. Of course, and I said that in the context of our legislative proposal, we are only dealing with one thing that is not working. And that thing that gives cheaters a huge opportunity to deceive tourists in Prague. I think, by your means, Mr Vice-President, to my colleague Klaus, that by the time we give the provisions of a law that really concerns only the dishonest, no one will have any incentive to apply the claim to that exchange with honest currency exchangers. Neither in the Giant Mountains nor in Prague. And if we help to stop cheating in exposed tourist sites in the Czech Republic, with no complicated proposal, but simple legal provisions, by simply supplementing the exchange law, I think that this is the way in any case in a good direction and for the benefit of the capital city of Prague and the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u25	Thank you. We still have another factual comment by Mr Patrik Nacher, who is claiming a factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u26	Thank you for the floor. They were actually right both previous speakers, and that's why I was talking about it, the complexity of the proposal. After all, this is not just about solving two exchange offices in Prague that offer a euro exchange rate of 15 or 17 but about a whole range of other things that are lurking for tourists. And it is, for example, double information about the shift, so called. VIP rates, charges that are written in smaller letters than the course, so they're untraceable. The guy will find it later on the course ticket. And so on and so forth. Like I said, selling other services has nothing to do with the very thing. In other words, it's a complex thing. Whoever's an honest money changer and doesn't do that, doesn't touch the change at all. Whoever's handling this, whoever's cheating like this, just because the tourist never comes back, he'll be logically affected. In general, as I said, the content is correct. The form and the width bothers me. Because it is true that these dishonest currency exchanges, albeit few, are few in this case, so they give us the same reputation as dishonest taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr Václav Klaus, and then I see another one. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u28	Mr Nacher, through the President, I understand that. If the point is that the money exchange is to trade for the course it puts on the glass, I don't have a problem with that. But as I was listening, the point is that people two hours after the transaction will be able to cancel the transaction and come back again, which can affect even a perfectly normal currency exchange, and it's a thing that can make their life very difficult, their entire business. Even the honest ones. Someone's gonna change their mind, see a more fraudulent currency exchange over there, run backwards. There could just be a lot of complications for these people, for small hotels and other people to trade. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u29	Thank you. I am now registering Mr Farský's application, but I have Mr Pavel Staněk here with a point of fact. You have a proper application, Mr. Chairman. A colleague of Staněk. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u30	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Just in a very short time. I think the proposal, as it was put forward, is not bad, but let's get back to the point again. Why should we modify other stickers something that we want to correct in a fundamental way? We say we want to reduce the number of laws, simplify the laws, but we can't do that with these stickers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u31	I thank Mr Pavel Staňek. Now, Mr Jan Farský, duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to send this proposal to the second reading so that we can finally start dealing with the problem. He didn't fall from the sky, we didn't know about him last month, not a year ago, not two years ago. The mentioned Janek Rubeš has been drawing attention to him for years. And then when I hear from the representatives of the ANO movement that they have a great and wonderful solution prepared, let's throw this under the table and wait for them to bring it in... For four years, the representatives of the ANO movement had in the hands of the Ministry of Finance, which could have done so, four years they had the mayor of the capital city of Prague, two basic places to deal with it, so they didn't deal with it. And today they're telling us that when we came up with a solution, we're supposed to wait for them to finish theirs? Why? It's a shame. And it's a shame to let that time go by. [[11.50 hours]] I've been there myself. Last night, Rubeš Jank and I walked past the money exchange. I'll describe the case to you. We went to the Charles Bridge, and we went to the exchange office, where there was an Italian tourist from Rome. Then I asked her where she came from. She came for a weekend stay in Prague. And she invested her time in deterring people from working in that particular currency exchange because she didn't want what happened to her to happen to everyone else. She didn't want other people stealing from the exchange rate of CZK 16 per euro, and they were completely hopeless in their recommendation, so call the police, but the police will say it's okay, although there's a zero percent charge written here, there's a course written here, but here's another course for which you got it, they're off the hook, or they're gonna put it on the Czech National Bank to deal with it. These are things that the tourist did not really expect for that weekend in Prague to be possible here. And then if I imagine the weekend of the tourist who arrives in Prague, maybe he'll pay more for the taxi from the airport than he will for the ticket from Rome, then she'll steal it from the exchange room instead of enjoying Prague, invest time in not being robbed by other people, so what message will she return to Rome with? That she enjoyed beautiful Prague, the city and recommended a visit to everyone else and that it was a great place to spend their money there and help Prague and the economy of the Czech Republic? I don't think so. And we have come up with a proposal to solve this painful place, which is a huge embarrassment to all of us, which has come into the tourist guides as one of Prague's huge problems. But if we come up with a solution, someone who's had four years to figure it out will say, you've got it wrong, wait a month, we'll do it for you... Excuse me, but there's no reason to wait. Please, let's not vote to reject this proposal, let's let it go to second reading, we're ready for this debate to improve, but we're wasting our time. If a government proposal comes here at first reading in a month, two, three, we're losing another month, at least six months, when this law can already be passed. This carrier here at the moment is, going to second reading, in which it is possible to work on it in a very fundamental way. And the second and third reading can then be until the holidays and it can, if it succeeds and the consensus is, already the summer tourist season can influence this law. And I think it's worth it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u33	Thank you, colleague Farský. We have two more factual points. First Mr Dolínek, then Mr Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u34	Thank you. Fellow Members, I would like to ask you that this proposal really goes into the next reading. The reason is simple. I haven't been here long, but I know that whatever comes up as a big complex proposal, there are always dozens and hundreds of problems. The deadline for adopting amendments is extended, the item at the committee meeting is interrupted, and it is constantly moving on and on. And it's not a question of two, four months, it's a matter of a year to get something going. The proposal, which the Minister said here, I appreciate that it has been put forward, but it will indeed have the fate of this law. There'll be so many different pressures on how it's supposed to be adjusted that we don't work out any results in months. Here is a very simple proposal that can help everyone quickly. Through Mr President, a message to Mr Nacher. First of all, it is consumer protection. Consumers from anywhere. And he himself, as chairman of the Consumer Sub-Committee, should give a chance to every proposal that comes out here, which protects consumers and can be applied quickly. And, of course, there are indirect instruments. As in the case of gambling, any municipality may decide to cancel the rent of a non-compliant facility and there may not be legal grounds for doing so. Yes, this is the obligation of the municipality and the municipality must terminate all contracts at the time when it takes place dishonestly, immorally or contrary to the law. After all, in Prague, for example. One currency exchange was expelled in Old Town Square and no one else will ever be there, for this very reason. So I would ask you to give it a chance to move on. And I welcome the words of the plaintiffs that if there is a consensus on the proposal that it will prove that the proposal of the Ministry of Finance will be easy to discuss, then I think that this proposal will be necessary. But I don't believe it, and let's give it a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Karel Rais, then Mr Patrik Nacher and then Mr KDU. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u36	Have a good day. I'll be brief. It seems to me that the Members, especially the Prague City Councilman, here is proof of this, have mistaken the rooms for these problems to be addressed at the Prague City Council and not in the House. We will be able to solve the problems of Prague's taxi service and since I am cross-country so-called, I can mention dozens of cases where Prague's taxi service failed, etc. Just figure it out on the Magistrate. I understand you're in there before the election, but I wouldn't be bringing partial problems to the House. I believe that this really is more proof that there is a need for a comprehensive solution to this problem and that we should wait for a government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u37	Thank you, Mr Karel Rais, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Mr Patrik Nacher's point of fact, then Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and Mr Jan Bartošek. That's the order of actual notes, just as I've marked them. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I'd never perform again. When I was approached, I used to react. Well, I didn't even say that the proposal was stupid, stupid, or what the words were. On the contrary, I said I welcome the content. I even said if those two hours are enough time to cancel, if you couldn't think about a longer period of time, etc. I'm the first to protect the consumers here. I'm just saying the issue is wider. Nothing more, nothing less. Please don't be demagogues. There's no one in this room who doesn't want to deal with it. It's just that there are ministries and legal perspectives, as far as I know from the Justice Department, if the cancellation should cover all courses, or any deviations from Wednesday, for example, so as not to see what my colleague Klaus was talking about, if someone finds a better course, a better course, they return there etc. There are, of course, more expert debates about this. So please, this is what we're talking about. Otherwise, I welcome the contents, and that's what I said. And the Minister witnessed it whenever we met, so I reminded, reminded and reminded of this proposal and this initiative for Prague and for Members, as well as for myself, as well as for the consumer's protectors. So please, let's stick to this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment as rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u40	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond through the President to a colleague, Rais, who asks why we are dealing with this. We are discussing this because unfortunately Prague cannot handle it alone. I was asking a question about the legislative department of the City Council when I found out what was going on at the Main Station, that people were getting CZK 20 there for the euro, and that was at a time when the usual course was about CZK 27, so what can the city do about it, whether it can deal with the decree or in some other way. And he can't. There's only law to deal with that. And that's why it's here in the House. As for my colleague Klaus' note that it will happen everywhere, and it is only a problem in the center of Prague... But if we look at the exchange business, the center of Prague has a very significant share of it, and when someone is robbed in the exchange office in Brno or Trutnov, I'll be glad if he can cancel it there too. I think that the measure is quite reasonable, that even the costs that will be borne by the currency exchange in those current transactions are in the hundreds of crowns if someone accidentally switched to cheaper competition, which he came across only then, but that, on the contrary, it is a much less bureaucratic burden than dealing with it through the police through fraud and assessment of how the capital letter there had something written. There's a tourist coming to see a cop who was robbed in a currency exchange, who's gonna go to the exchange room with him, get his money back, and it's done, and in terms of bureaucracy for the exchange, it's not that bad. And I don't think the honest ones are suffering in any significant way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, with a factual remark. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also turn to my colleague, Rais, by your means. I ask him, what bothers him is that the Chamber of Deputies decides on a matter which is a problem for the capital of the Czech Republic. The capital, which is the storeroom of this republic and according to which they judge the Czech Republic in the world. I am surprised by the position of the ANO club against the presentation of this law, because what happens when it is presented? He's gonna be here, he's gonna be discussed, he's gonna be parked, he's gonna be redesigned according to a government proposal. The same has already happened at the City Council, where some changes have not been made, as colleague Dolínek has already said, to get on the agenda for the exchange activities, and it has also been blocked by YES. I'm asking why? I don't understand. We're dealing with so many useless things here. Why are we resisting putting on the table the thing that, in my opinion - and now speaking from the position of former mayor - is absolutely essential to Prague and absolutely essential to the perception of our republic? I'm asking you, Professor, why does it bother you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u43	With a factual remark, Mr Bartošek is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. For the KDU-ČSL club, I would like to say that we are in favour of this press being released for further reading, because we see it as an important point for these fraudulent exchange offices to actually be dealt with. And if there is an argument that a government bill is prepared, this argument would be meaningful at the moment if the government had a majority here. But the government does not have a majority here, and it will wage a duel for every vote, such as this draft law of the MP. That means let's move on. The government doesn't have much. Thank God the proposal's here. He's a little early. [[Responses in the SPD bench.]] I koukat my colleague Rozner doesn't agree with me by twisting his head, which may indicate that other laws will be voted by the SPD and Communists, which may be so. But officially, the majority is not here, and in that case, this bill, which is parliamentary, has the same weight as the government's proposal, because the government doesn't have a majority here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u45	Thank you. The order of factual remarks is as follows: President Stanjura, Mrs Válková, Vice-President Okamura. Then, with priority rights, Minister Schillerová is registered. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u46	About 28 factual points, and we won't be able to discuss it until 13:00. I volunteered to respond to Mr Nacher's speech. Believe me, I'm an expert at saying that the government will prepare a new, better, more comprehensive proposal. That's what I said around here many times when I was chairman of the government's MP's club. Sometimes it did, sometimes it didn't. But we're not at third reading today, and we're not deciding whether to accept the proposal the way it's submitted or not. There may also be specific reservations, as they said, "I want to deal with it, but it's not written well," I would understand. I don't understand the delay. If we let it go to second reading, and I think we're going to come up with some kind of adjustment, because as it's written, we couldn't vote for it, so maybe it'll speed up the government's activities, the Ministry of Finance, and either we'll have two proposals, then we can merge the debate, or the possible supplements that the Ministry of Finance has already prepared can be loaded in the second reading. I'd understand if somebody didn't want to deal with it at all, he'd say: that's a problem I don't want to solve, so I suggest a rejection. That's legitimate. Here we meet at each other's bill, where parts of the political representation do not satisfy either the problem at all or the way in which it is to be dealt with. Well, that feels better than being here for 60 minutes saying what should change there, giving it a chance, maybe changing it. As I say for our club, we wouldn't support it at third reading. If sensible amendments come in the legislative process, we will consider this when the proposals are on the table and depending on how the vote goes. And the solutions are different. It's always the currency exchange that someone says are fake, but at the same time they say "the law makes it possible," so the two sentences don't go completely together. If the law allows it and at the same time says it's a fraud, we can say it's incorrect, or... [[Attention on time.]] So they're not just on private property, they're on state property. And that's where the state can intervene right away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u47	Thank you. Mrs Válková and her factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to put a slightly different perspective on this. Of course as Pražák, as a representative, respectively. elected by people in Prague I see the problem particularly intensely. I completely agree with what has been said here that this amendment is extremely necessary. Because the situation is, as the Minister said, that he has a comprehensive proposal for a solution to this issue prepared after the review procedure, I will abstain because, in the case of a vote, the draft law that addresses this issue would not be submitted by the government within a month, so if the proposal is not released by second reading, I would vote in favour of the proposal, which may not only be free of legislative shortcomings. There is actually quite a lot to fix, especially in the civil field, as the Minister has said. And one more thing I wanted to say. We are releasing a lot of laws here for second reading, with the fact that we will then prepare complex amendments. So in this respect, I have no problem letting the law go into second reading, assuming it's changed. But since I have heard the promise here that there is already a comprehensive proposal prepared after the inter-ministerial procedure governing this issue better, I will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u49	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to convey the position of our SPD movement. I am still a member of the management of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and Travel Agencies, which, by the way, still lasts to this day, so we are co-authors of the amendment to the Act on Exchanges, which currently applies, that is where the consumer report is sent. And why am I talking about this? It was indeed a meeting for many years. Because here I agree completely with Professor Válková, the things that need to be resolved from the legal point of view and from all the points of view... I was surprised because at the time I wasn't in politics, how complicated the law really is to make it work. We've just suggested that we introduce it so those clients have to sign that they agree to the course, and other things. So we encourage the Ministry to actually prepare a comprehensive proposal. We will support the ministerial proposal, and we prefer to discuss any adjustments within the ministerial proposal, because I, as a tourist professional, do this my whole life, and we are discussing legislation from the left, right and European Union, we have experts in the association, so it is simply not that simple. It looks awfully easy to edit there some simple parameter, but it can cause big problems and great blunder to all parties and even tourism. Therefore, I would like to appeal that the Minister, in the sense that he is speaking here, should present the amendment to the law actually comprehensively mentioned from all sides, because we, as tourism, again say, cannot afford on this important subject, which is undoubtedly needed to be addressed, and it needs to be amended and updated in order to achieve some irregularities and then some inaccuracies that will essentially render us here paradoxically a bear service. So we will support the ministerial proposal and appeal to the Minister to present it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u51	With a factual remark, the rapporteur, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u52	I wanted to respond briefly to the SPD's position because I am very sorry that yesterday we let the SPD's proposal into second reading on the matter of the material responsibility of officials and he was clearly legislatively undercooked and there were a number of practical comments from the government, and this House let him into second reading precisely with the fact that the problem is serious, that it is to be addressed and that at second reading there is room to correct it, and at the moment when we have a similar situation, only with the difference that the issue is much simpler than the substantive responsibility of the officials and the government's comments could be incorporated very effectively in the second reading, so suddenly for the SPD, this parliamentary proposal is not good enough and they want to reject it probably only because it bothers them who submit it. I'm sorry it doesn't come from more clubs either. I think if Patrik Nacher, Jakub Michálek, Honza Čižinský, were signed there, it would be more fair. But that's not what we want to argue about. We're trying to get things to work out before the tourist season is over. And that's where the proposal goes, which is why we support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u53	With a factual remark, Mr Benešík is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would like to underline what was said here in front of me, and that's what I wanted to say. Just if I have information that someone is changing Swiss francs and is told here at Charles Bridge in exchange that he will receive CZK 10,000 and gets 7.5,000 and eventually finds out that there is some hidden handling fee or service fee of CZK 2.5,000, it's immoral. And if some of the movements here simply bring, like a mild-mannered bullyx, laws on referendums that are absolutely undercooked and problematic, and they have a big problem letting this law go into second reading, it seems very, very strange to me. And, as the Prime Minister says, he's probably being naughty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u55	With priority rights, Minister Schillerová is registered. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I've got a few more sentences. We are undoubtedly all in agreement that the idea and objective pursued by this amendment are correct. However, the amendment is not well implemented. In addition to the legislative technical deficiencies that can be healed, there are a number of questions that will make a huge problem for consumers. We are a government novel, which is why the interministert ended on 23 March, because we consulted the Czech National Bank, the Czech Banking Association, the Exchange Association and the Association of Hotels and Restaurants very closely before the interministert. That means, we accepted and we perceived their practical experience and they were involved in the government proposal. And I understand that the government doesn't have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, but when I listen to the fact that we agree on the idea and we're actually just talking about the level of implementation, I don't think it's gonna be a problem to push this government amendment through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u57	Thank you. No one is signed up for the general debate anymore or anyone is reporting at this time, so I am ending the general debate. Final words. Is Mr. Vice-President Rakušan interested? He does, so I'm giving him the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, thank you for today's debate, which only confirms that we are dealing with a really existing problem here. It merely confirms that it was appropriate for a parliamentary initiative to come, which accelerates the whole process of legislative regulation in the area. For this reason, I believe that many good ideas have been made here, many good proposals, many interesting words to make this proposal rationally, without emotions, technically discussed at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u59	Thank you. The rapporteur's final statement. Mr. Ferjenčík, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u60	Thank you for the floor. I'll sum up the formal issues. The relevant subcommittee of the Committee on Budgets recommends the release for second reading and the Government has given a disagreeable opinion. Personally, I believe that shortcomings can be corrected at second reading. I personally recommend the law to support this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u61	Yes, I understand. However, rapporteur, if the records are correct here, the proposal has been made...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u62	I'm sorry, there's been a motion to dismiss, if I'm not mistaken, from my colleague Vrána, so we have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u63	Yes, as you have heard, the motion to reject the motion has already been made at first reading by Mr Vrána. We will now vote on this proposal. I call on Members from the lobby, and we can also comply with the request for all of them to be checked out. So I'm signing you all out, please log in with your ID cards again. [[After a while:]] Looks like we're ready for the vote. We will vote to reject this proposal at first reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Okay, so I'm declaring this vote void due to reported card issues. The way we're gonna do this is I'm gonna pull you all out again, which is what happened. Please log in with your ID cards again. Is the card problem solved? [[Member Kobza says so.]] Yes, the problem is solved and we can re-vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered 128 Members, for 65, against 45. The proposal has been adopted, and this means - that we will examine the vote. [[Resurrection in the O.R. The vote is being reviewed.]] Yes, Mrs Němcová has signed up for the vote. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to object to the previous vote. On the high road I have said that I voted in favour, I voted so that I wanted to abstain. I therefore ask for this objection and for the vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u65	Yes, there was a clear objection to the vote. I will now vote on whether the Chamber of Deputies will accept this objection. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, registered by 129 Members, for 126, there was no opposition. The motion was accepted. [[12.20 hours]] We will therefore vote again on the motion to reject the proposal at first reading. So now we will vote again on rejection. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49. 126 Members registered, for 65, against 44. The motion was accepted. The President of Farský shall report with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u66	vážený President, just a short time. So now we are to blame for the disgrace of the Czech Republic, which has been here for four years, because the YES movement had nothing in the hands of the Ministry of Finance, because it had the mayor of the capital city of Prague and did nothing, so we can have another month of embarrassment for the fact that the ANO movement, in cooperation with the communists, blocked the negotiation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u67	President Bartošek, after whom President Filip is entitled, is entitled to the priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u68	I'm sorry, it wasn't in cooperation with the Communists, it was with the SPD. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u69	President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u70	Thank you, that's right. This law has been blocked by the votes of the ANO movement and the votes of the SPD movement. The result is simple: basically by voting you decided to support the bastards. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u71	President Filip with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u72	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, you know, I would not like to ideologicalize some things, but let us look at this very rationally, what is happening here. If there is a proposal that the subcommittee has begun to discuss, and there is a very rational reason for it, the Ministry of Finance is discussing something and says that the commentary procedure has ended, that it will put forward a bill, I am in favour, but it is about whether the medium is usable, and I think it is. And maybe we should better figure out what someone here will support and who won't support, because there's been a rather strange practice here lately, that someone's gonna get a second reading, and someone's not gonna get a second reading, even though the proposal is more rational than others. And yesterday, what happened here, how our proposals went, don't be mad at me, I can't agree to ideology this. I just want to know how rational the government will proceed so that we can keep some of the proposals in the negotiations so that we can respond in time to the needs of society. And here we were clearly opposed to rejection at first reading, because even if I trust the government to bring it up, I don't know if the law that the government will bring in in June is going to make this season, whereas if we continue this proposal, we could do it with quite rational action. So we need to be clear where we want to go and what proposals. For KSČM it is not important that a fellow Rakušan suggested it. For me, what he proposed is essential. And if I agree with the proposal factually, and even the government promises to expand it, I will be willing to support this proposal so that it can be discussed both in the subcommittee and in the committee and, if necessary, a comprehensive amendment. We really didn't help rejecting it! But those who have decided to block this have to figure it out. Yet other rational proposals have been blocked here, and others, less rational, have not been blocked. So if we want to play this political game, we're only gonna end up bad!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-003-017.u73	dáma and gentlemen, I am of the opinion that the Chamber of Deputies has rejected the debate on the proposal, House press 83 at first reading, and I am ending the discussion on this point. Now, I'll introduce you to your apologies. Mr Staněk apologizes from today's meeting between 14.00 and 16.30 because of the negotiations Mrs Kozlová apologises, Mr Kobza apologizes from 14.00 to the end of today's meeting due to the working session of the Permanent Commission for Control of ÚZSI and the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Skopeček apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for working reasons and Mr Výborný apologies for today's meeting between 9.00 and 17.30 because of the working session in the region. We will now proceed to discuss the next point, namely:
