ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u1	32. Government bill amending Act No. 259/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, and other related laws, and Act No. 92/2018 Coll., amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /house print 204/ - first reading I will ask the honourable Members of Parliament to remain calm so that we can discuss this government bill. Jana Maláčová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will present the proposal for the Government. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's bill is particularly relevant to the issue of the so-called 'right'. electronic disability in the field of sickness insurance. The amendment of the electronic form of the decision of treating doctors on the establishment of temporary incapacity was prepared by the MPSV in the second half of 2016 and due to the approaching end of the term of office was introduced in the form of a parliamentary amendment to the government proposal. technical amendments, which were partially clarified by a number of provisions of social insurance laws. This did not pass due to lack of time by standard inter-ministerial reminder control. Following Parliament's approval, the amendment was announced in the Collection of Laws in August 2017 under No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[18.20 hours]] Implementation of the legislation of electronic incapacity is not a simple matter and the timetable of the implementation project was quite tense from the outset. Following the termination of the project by my predecessor, Minister Němcová, who proposed to abolish legislation for the Government and postpone the project for two years, the project cannot objectively be implemented with original effect from 1 January 2019. Therefore, this situation needs to be addressed and the electronic failure project needs to be delayed. I do not think, as my predecessor, that it is necessary to cancel the legislation by two years and that it is necessary for a large majority of Members who have already approved it. Instead, I would like to recommend to the House that this law be postponed for one year, i.e. 1 year. 1. 2020. Although the legislation on electronic disability is not entirely flawless due to its very rapid preparation and has identified some partial legislative problems in the first phase of the MPSV project, it is not such as to jeopardise the functioning of the sickness insurance agenda and can be responded to at the earliest amendment of the sickness insurance law. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support the proposal to postpone effectiveness on the grounds that we will be able to continue the project with the legislation in force. By contrast, the abolition of the regulation for our resort means further extension of the unwanted delay of the complete electronicisation of work incapacity, because we will be able to invest the resources for the modification of applications after approval of the modification of new ones. Unfortunately, although I had to accept that the target, satisfactory solution of electronic incompetence will not be ready in January 2019, we can still implement part of the solution next year. First of all, we have been able to carry out an employer service since January 2019 so that the Czech Social Security Administration can electronically ask whether an employee who has not entered work is or is not in work incapacity. In order to have information as soon as possible about the emergence of new occupational incapacity for the provision of this service to the ČSSS, I will propose to the Government in the near future partial amendments to the sickness insurance law, so-called. the first stage of the electronic disability, where certain reports by the treating doctors to the sickness insurance authorities, in particular reports on the occurrence and termination of temporary incapacity for work, would take place only in electronic form. The second stage, i.e. complete electronisation, will be introduced if you incline to my recommendation to postpone the legislation, from 1 January 2020, and if you lean to the proposal of my predecessor, Mrs. Exministra Němcová, then a year later, from 1 January 2021. The project of electronic incompetents, which is factually correct and fully consistent with the trend of general electronisation, is therefore not abandoned. Allow me to add one more very important information to the electronic disability project. Part of the changes brought about by Law No 259/2017 Coll. on the basis of a parliamentary amendment, the transfer of registers maintained so far by the Czech Social Security Administration, i.e. a register of insured persons and employers' registers, to a single information system, the administrator of which is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This modification means that from 1 January 2019 MPSV should become the administrator of the ČSSS applications, which will be entrusted with the specific activities necessary for their development and operation. However, it turned out that this transfer on 1 January 2019 was not realistic in practice and would be premature because during 2018 the transfer of management was not sufficiently prepared and would bring increased risks to the activities of the Czech Social Security Administration. However, I also propose, instead of abolishing and strengthening the autonomy of the ČSSZ, a one-year delay in effectiveness, because I consider the conceptual development of application software with a unified strategy throughout the Ministry of MPSV to be necessary from the point of view of ensuring an efficient eGovernment. Thank you for your attention and please refer the bill to the next reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u3	Thank you. Mr Lukáš Kolářík is rapporteur for first reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u4	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues, allow me also to present my report on the Government Bill amending Act No. 259 Coll., amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended. The draft law submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs repeals the previous amendment of the abovementioned laws, which regulated the procedures for deciding on temporary incapacity for work and quarantine for the purpose of providing sickness insurance based on paper form in the form of prescribed forms. From 1 January 2019 an optional electronic form should be introduced in the framework of these procedures, so-called eIncapacity, based on Act No. 259/2017 Coll., which amends this law. Law No 259, which the Government's proposal proposes to abolish, has been approved by the Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term and its effectiveness has been set since 1. 1. 2019. The applicant states in the explanatory memorandum that the project is postponed by two years, i.e. by 2021. This statement is wrong, however, as it is clear from the proposal in question that it is not proposed to postpone the project of eIncompetents, but it is proposed to abolish it completely. Furthermore, in the explanatory memorandum, the proposer argues in an inappropriate manner that this amendment was tabled in the form of a parliamentary amendment and that, according to the applicant, there was no proper commentary procedure. This claim is true. It should be noted, however, that this proposed parliamentary amendment was drafted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is therefore at least strange that it is now criticising this procedure and proposing that the eInability Project be abolished for this reason. According to available documents, representatives from a number of experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Czech Social Security Administration, the Ministry of the Interior, including the department of the main architect, the Ministry of Health, the representative of the Government of the Czech Republic, ÚZIS, SÚKL, doctors of the Czech Medical Chamber, Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně, representatives of the Association of Practical Physicians, Trade unions and employers' representatives such as the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Confederation of Employers' and Business Unions of the Czech Republic and Intelligence Services were involved in the preparation of the project. It is so obvious that the proposal has been mentioned by a number of bodies and professional organisations, which are directly affected by the introduction of an eIncapacity. It is therefore not true that the project is not sufficiently discussed, as the applicant states in the explanatory memorandum. Further arguments for the cancellation of the project by the applicant's incompetents do not appear in the explanatory memorandum. Together with the cancellation of the project eInability is also proposed to remove registers maintained by the Czech Social Security Administration, i.e. the register of insured persons, the register of employers and a new register of attending physicians, from the single information system of work and social affairs. This exclusion would, however, completely undermine the concept of a unified information system and go completely against the meaning of egovernment. Without a single data base, any attempt to digitize this resort will be futile. In view of these facts, I propose, like the petitioner who has changed his mind at the moment, to postpone the effectiveness of this law and to give the Ministry the room to complete the projects necessary for the launch of the single information system, to run the system, to make up for dependence on one supplier and to reduce the costs of operating these agenda systems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which Mr Bauer is the first to join. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words on the amendment that has been tabled disturbing the eInability. I have to admit, I've read a lot of legislative drafts over the past few months. I did not expect any miracles, Madam Secretary through Mr President, but I am very sad when I read this proposal. Yes, it can happen. It may be that the government, or we Members, have too big eyes, and we will accept changes whose putting into life requires more work than can be done at a specified time. That, of course, can happen. Then there is nothing left but the effectiveness of the measures to postpone or postpone, because this is a better option than exposing officials and the public to chaos. But the problem, in my opinion, is when it becomes a rule or becomes a rule and when some fundamental changes are adopted in a dubious way, which in advance suggests that realization itself will certainly not go well. Why do I say that? The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has failed before when it has enforced the introduction of eIncompetents together with the introduction of a single information system of labour and social affairs by a non-standard method of the parliamentary proposal, which, of course, is also very common here. It was undoubtedly a messed-up, ill-conceived design, and poorly prepared. Finally, even the explanatory report itself, if you could find time to read it, accompanying this current draft, says nothing but that it is a failed and ill-conceived proposal. This may not be much of a result, because the explanatory note is written by an official correct slogan, so it doesn't sound that much at first sight. [[18.30 hours]] The question is whether it was at all possible to prepare eInability in time, even if the apparatus of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs worked on it day and night. In any case, the former Minister for the YES movement, Minister Němcová, has concluded in the past that she did not, so she has prepared the cancellation of the entire project, which may be remembered by some of you. I can blame Secretary Maláčová for anything today, but certainly not that she is to blame for her current state of affairs. He's too short in office for that. But the fact is that she already has all the responsibility for the fact that an incompetent woman will actually start to work one day. According to the explanatory memorandum, it's due in 2021. If I have correctly noted, Madam Secretary says it can be done by 2020. However, the basis for the bill presented is so leaky and vague that too much confidence in this data, that is, 2020. I personally certainly do not have. And that's a big problem for me, because at the same time, we have a socialist proposal to cancel the Karen age. The Prime Minister allowed himself, and that is obvious, to be heard loudly, that his consent to the proposal of his coalition partner is subject to the eneschopenka's startup. But it will not start until two years later, i.e. if the reason report or optimism of Minister Maláčová applies, otherwise it will take a few more years. I would therefore like to ask: Is it possible to take the Prime Minister at his word and rest that the time of the card will remain valid at least until the e-Cancellation is resolved? I hope there's an answer here. And another one. Or will the Prime Minister's word to Andrej Babiš only apply until the next day, or to new instructions according to the PR team? I want to trust Prime Minister Andrea Babiš this time for once, and I want to believe that if the government forces us to vote on the eIncapacity, it will not at the same time force us to vote on the cancellation of the Karenary period, a measure that will have a negative impact on the entire corporate sector and, as a result, on the employees themselves. Moreover, the Prime Minister was not original for once, that is obvious, because the introduction of an eIncapacity from the outset was also supported by all employers, and it is also them who also see it as part of the debate on possible new settings of sickness and changes in the career period. In conclusion, allow me to make a general remark. The entire analysis with an eneschopenka shows how important it is to have a high-quality apparatus, experts and legislation at ministries who are able to prepare quality proposals and send them to the standard legislative process. As soon as the ministries shorten this path or start promoting their interests through amendments to the House, it does not usually go well in my experience. Unfortunately, MEPs are often considered guilty, but in fact they are government ministries and their ministers and governments. If there's something really starting to bother me about the government of Andrej Babiš at this point, it's just a repeatedly proven inability to stop this trend. It is the government of Andrej Babiš, which, on the contrary, reduces the quality of legislative work, brings chaos and disorder into it. But that is no longer the story of an eneschopenka, but also the card of this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u7	Thank you. Have a good evening. Now, with priority rights, the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Mrs Pekarová will be prepared in standard order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, colleagues, my performance will be a little longer than my previous speaker. I've already announced at another point today, and that was in Chinese medicine that if something went wrong, then we're pretending something happened by mistake, like it wasn't anybody's fault. This situation, in which we are at this particular point, is a clear culprit and is called the Czech Social Democratic Party and its former Minister, its Members. A clear accomplice, which are today's coalition partners, are members of the ANO movement and members of the KSČM. Then I will document my claim with the statistics of the vote from the last parliamentary term. Mr. Bauer said it swayingly. The reason report is a really overwhelming, explanatory report written by a new minister who comes from the opposition and does not leave it dry to the previous government, which he has criticized in the long run. I will try to quote only a few sentences from the explanatory report on this bill: The changes that concern eIncapacity were not part of the original government bill. On the basis of the instructions of the then administration of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - I said, who led the department, the Minister kind of withheld it in her introductory words, or did not give us complete information about who was at the head of the Ministry - in addition to the sickness insurance law, in the form of a parliamentary amendment. In doing so, the MPSV itself prepared this parliamentary amendment. So let's just say it and translate it. Yes, it was formally a parliamentary amendment, but it was prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which bypassed the government and the standard legislative process. I don't know if it fell out of the original bill in a commentary procedure or if it wasn't there at all. In order to stand up for the Chamber of Deputies, although I did not vote in favour, it will be concluded, not prepared by Members, Members only signed up for it, but prepared by the Ministry itself. The same department that says today that the term is unrealistic, that it couldn't be done. Plus, the Ministry is running the same party politically as it was at the time. So the culprit is absolutely clear, and it's discovered. Now to the other part. In addition, the amendment also included an adaptation of the single information system of work and social affairs, a nice shortcut, enshrined in Section 4 of the Labour Office Act, which was extended to the information systems of registers so far managed by the Czech Social Security Administration. These information systems, a register of insured persons, a register of employers and a new register of attending physicians should no longer be maintained by the Czech Social Security Administration as of 1 January next year, but by the Ministry of Social Security within JISPSV. The Ministry should have become the administrator of these registers, with employees - imagine - that the employees of the Czech administration had access. The ministry was so generous at the time. They take her agenda, and then they say, but they can have access. These changes, which, in addition to the amendment to the Labour Office Act, also required partial amendments to the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security and also changes to the Act on sickness insurance, were developed externally as a separate part of the amendment, in this case the Ministry itself did not draw up. Here is someone else's culprit, here is the culprit of the Member of Social Democracy who made these proposals, and the accomplices are the Members, and I quote them who voted in favour of the proposal. It is obvious, the Government writes in its explanatory report that the above-mentioned way of enforcing the legislation on eIncapacity and the legislation on the change of JISPSV did not allow the implementation of a proper legislative process and that this deficit is irresistible while maintaining the current legislation on incapacity. - Pasquil, which is irresistible. This is not what the opposition is saying, that is what the government that ruled in the last parliamentary term, when it pushed through, and which rules in this parliamentary term. It did not give me a chance to see if the opposition had fulfilled its role in the last parliamentary term and the government had drawn attention to the problems that would arise from the possible adoption of the amendment. Yes, I won't surprise you. We've done the part. I'm going to be quoting you from the log. That's a really bad thing. I will quote my speech, Mr Běhounek's speech, an honored colleague, and Minister Marksová. First of all, just part of my speech at the time: A much more critical comment deserves the proposal of the Member, the Governor and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the VZP. We are together in a working group set up by the then Prime Minister to deal with the electronisation of public administration, and I think that this proposal is an accurate example of what we rightly criticize in that group and how it should not be done. Look at the amendment, it is relatively robust, it is not linked to anything else, there has been no standard comment procedure or tender. We are introducing a yeti, a unified information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[18.40 hours]] And now I could quote, I'll repeat myself, from the unclear diction of the amendment, which the House mostly accepted. There, this text appears several times in several paragraphs. For example: The data necessary to assess the health status and the activities of paragraphs 1 to 9 shall be kept in the health assessment information system for the purposes of social agendas. - Health assessment for social agendas. It's a strange thing to say. This information system is supposed to be part of a unified information system, not even a part of the Ministry. I've asked the Minister a few specific questions. How does the unified information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs look today? Which systems and which subsystems fall into this single system? When did any contest take place on this supplier? Who is the supplier of this system? What are the annual operating costs of the Single Information System of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs? I asked what the Government Council's position on the public administration information system was on this amendment. I asked why they didn't deal with it in the government bill and why they didn't deal with it with the parliamentary proposal. Mr Běhounek said that he would sign up in a detailed debate, as needed, to the number of the amendment. And I challenged him and asked him not to. So that we do not vote on this amendment at all because it is completely wrong. I'm gonna give Secretary Marksová a break, she's not here anymore, so I'm not gonna quote. I quote Mr Běhounek, and then we can judge ourselves who was right in the debate and whose words came up. Mr. Běhounek first criticized me for leaving in the meantime. I confess to that even after years that I haven't been here for a while. But I quote now, Mr Běhounek: "I, of course, want to say that there are no technical solutions in this amendment. There are no matters that we will fill, there is a space that we open by law." Sounds like a strange language to me. The space we're opening with the law. And now the MP is Běhounek. And now I'm quoting exactly. I'm sorry, I wouldn't choose such hard words. "I really don't understand this House. I'm probably a dumb doctor because on the one hand, we say we need to do an electronization, but we can't and we don't have a law. And if we want to make a legal standard so that we can follow it, it's wrong again. Then let's resign to everything." Time has judged us, honourable colleague through the Vice-President, who was right and who was wrong. And now the amendment, it was two amendments, I have a nominal list, but I'm going to tell you politically after the clubs. The first part, voted on the launch of the eIncompetent project, this is about the amendment, which is not ready, said the Minister, and which was written by the Ministry itself. For 39 members of social democracy, there was no one. For there were 30 members YES, no one against YES. For 32 members of the Communist Party, there was no one. I have to point out critically that for one member of the TOP, one member of the ODS, eight people, five non-attached Members and five Members of the Dawn. Against it was 28, of which 16 members of the TOP, 11 of the ODS, I was among them, and one folklore. That was about the eneschopenka. And on the single information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, about the yeti, as I called it, in May 2017, the vote came as follows: for 39 members of the Social Democracy Club, against no one. For 29 members of the club of the ANO movement, against 1, for 32 communists, against no one. All present members of TOP 09, 17 against. All present members of ODS Club, 12 against. For there were nine folks, against one, once again there were five members of the Úsvit movement and five non-attached. So if we are looking for the culprits of this unhappy state, it is the MPSV that proposed the first amendment, Mr Běhounek, who proposed the second amendment, and the clubs who voted in favour. Three government clubs from that time and three government clubs from today. Social Democrats were in this at that time and today, the ANO movement, and for the people, as well as today's coalition partner, the Communists. These are the ones who did not listen to the opposition when we rightly criticized, and I was not the only one who opposed it from our club, that it was wrong, that it was unrealistic, that the unified information system had no meaning, because it was out of context and no connection. No, we were wrong, we were stalling, we were harassing the government, so that the same people would come after a year and a quarter, saying it was wrong, unprepared, and we had to postpone. So I would expect the Minister to say, "We Social Democrats have messed up." Saying here, she's gonna say, "That went through the MP's proposal." Which was planned by the Socialist Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or an important member of the Social Democracy Club. That's what we need to add when we're looking for the culprits. And today I'm supposed to trust the new secretary from the same side, and we're about back in the same time period, later, that it's gonna work in 15 months. [[unintelligible]] Without that unified system, I hope you will propose to leave it entirely, because yeti did not exist in 2017 or 2018 and will not exist next year or next year. They weren't able to compete with anything, I've heard it here many times from the mouth of the last minister from the ANO movement, I read it in the SAO report. At the same time, someone is proposing a robust change that instead of the Czech Social Security Administration, to which the agenda belongs, it will be done by the Ministry itself, which cannot compete at all. But we already have other ideas! Karen's time, this, this, five weeks of vacation, shortening working hours - so that we can meet back here in a year and a quarter and hear from the Minister of Social Democracy, that's their flagship, as they themselves say. They are not able to prepare real law, real, in real terms, what they invented, they are not even able to realize. And how do they do that? He's gonna leave and come up with a new idea! The former Minister of Education gestifies, and I greet her through the President. [[Valachová from the bench]] And I have to say, it wasn't the only area, the MPSV, where the ideas of social democracy came across real life and had to be either canceled or postponed. So there were quite a lot of plans, it's almost like the new bridge to live in Prague, so I don't save any government party, these plans are born here. The worst part is when the plan bounces off in the legislation. So really, Madam Secretary, who's to blame for this, I'd like to know we're in this state? And how are we supposed to believe that you're gonna make it so that an incompetent woman can be operational in 15 months? It's operational. I don't know if the supplier's tender's running yet. At the average length of the tender for a large IT system, I'm afraid that if it doesn't run anymore, it's not real to compete at all. I don't know if there's even a competent assignment yet. Here, notice, since May, when we voted on this at the third reading, the debate I quoted was second reading in April, since May 2017 the Ministry - and I don't know, so I'm asking the Minister - have you tried to compete? Did the Ministry at least try to fulfill the legal obligation that something should apply from 1 January 2019, at least try to write the assignment and declare the contract? If so, I'll be happy to get the information on how many companies logged in, how the contract went and where it ended up when we don't have it yet. Of course, I support this bill, because voting against it does not really make sense. The D.O.D. didn't make it, it's not, and it's not gonna be. Do we have any choice but to postpone? Well, we don't. Otherwise, there will be complete chaos in the public administration. Total chaos. But we can't pretend nobody's responsible here. I clearly showed you who. Take a look at the screenshots, look, if you're wondering, it was May 17th in the vote number forty-six and vote number forty-seven. I am looking forward and waiting for a third reading on this draft programme, and I look forward to the fact that those who advocated this and were in favour of it in May 2017 will be opposed in October or November 2018. And they're gonna look so serious about it, and they're gonna say, "We need to discuss this quickly, we need to save it." The situation is serious. In case you want to postpone that point, don't take any chances. We could cause chaos. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u9	There. That was Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. So now we have two factual points and two Members, respectively. a Member registered for the general debate. So, first Mrs Valachová. Your two minutes. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I certainly want to chop off two compliments to my foreman Zbyňka Stanjur, because he has managed to investigate electronic incapacity here and has managed to accumulate the role of investigator, prosecution, a judgment condemning, of course, and at the same time to appeal against such a judgment. That's admirable. And what is the second admirable and the second compliment. Finally, someone found a yeti. He's exposed, he's caught, we know where he is. He is in the Czech Republic, so he has lived here since 17 May 2017. There. And now I just want to say the facts. In the last year, three or more precisely four ministers of labour and social affairs have replaced us. In this we have managed elections to the Chamber of Deputies and also the constitution of minority government and majority government, respectively. minority with the support of communists here we have about two, two and a half months. So I assure my previous speaker as much as the rest of you that an electronic disability is a project that will be successful during this government. You'll see and it'll work. And, no doubt, when discussing this bill, we will have time in the committees to look at the timetables and what has been done has not been done. And everyone, including Zbyněk Stanjura, will no doubt be happy if not only they catch yetti, but also tame him. And I hereby call on him to join us, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u11	Thank you. Mr Jiří Běhounek, subsequently with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u12	Mr President, colleagues, I must say that I was very pleased by the repeated quotes of my name by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, because we had already exchanged opinions on this subject for one and a half years before. I, of course, recognise that his approach is absolutely consistent, but on the other hand, it must be said that at the moment - and the amendment was led by this effort, and I stand behind him and I would fight for him today, because today we have two options to send electronically two parts of the disability and the rest by mail. So if anyone - colleague Bláha apologized, but he could say what a mess it is when all paper parts of his disability are worn in different places and dealt with in some way. Of course, we're not going to discuss this today, so I'm going to prepare a response to my colleague Stanjura so that I can oppose him in exactly the same way, because I'm having fun and obviously his too. And I think that we should in any case - in the end, he said that we had nothing left but to postpone the law, because it would not be fulfilled. Extend its validity, and in that time, the Ministry could do it. I have to say something here that may not please my colleague Zbyňka Stanjur, but even he is unable to influence certain processes that differ in opinion within individual ministries. I don't have anything else in mind right now but what we're going to say to each other in the galleys, because it couldn't be combined enough. So I'm taking the criticism. I stand by this amendment, and I beg you to stand up for it in this way. And I am very happy through Mr President that Zbyněk takes it this way in sport. It's a beautiful discussion. Thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u13	Thank you for keeping time. So, Mr Stanjura. So far, the final point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u14	I don't like it, even if you think I do. But we are repeating the May 2017 debate. And I told you, time judged us. I told you it wasn't gonna happen, it wasn't ready. Madam Secretary and Mr Běhounek said they could make it. You can see for yourself who was right. This isn't about who the judge is and who's taking some kind of punishment. It's just reality. And if you read the government's explanatory report, not the opposition, it's really, it's overwhelming criticism. That there were three or four ministers, well, that's possible. I didn't count it. But at least three were from social democracy. But the former secretary inspired me. I didn't know if we were gonna make some kind of obligation, that it would be programmed by the minister. I thought that if there was an obligation, the Ministry, in this case work and social affairs, based on the legal obligation in that order, would prepare the contract, the procurement documents and try to comply with the law. I would take this argument because someone didn't submit something, a new bill, because ministers took turns and there was no time to discuss it, to do it by standard comment procedure, etc. But the fact that it's not fulfilled will prove that it was already fiction. And I would expect... And this debate isn't about whether or not to be an incompetent, so we understand each other. The debate is about it, and I said in April and May 2017, it's badly prepared, so don't turn the debate by digitizing against paper. I'm sure you can't blame me as a former programmer for being against digitalization. But there has to be a point. It has to be real, and it can't be a shot of several paragraphs. What is a unified information system for work and social affairs? Not even the Ministry. What's that? I asked you 14 months ago. What agendas are there? What subsystems? Who ever competed with them? What is the connection with other public administration systems? I haven't received any answers in 14 months. So I'm really tired of it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u15	Thank you. And now I give the floor to Mrs Adamová Pekarová in the general debate. I would just like to point out that, according to the agreement of the MPs, today's meeting ends at 7:00 p.m. However, I will not interrupt you. I'm just making this very clear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u16	Thank you for your word, although I have only a very short time left. But on the other hand, many have been brilliantly said here. And now I'm a little sorry that my colleague overcame me with his priority right because I had the same passages prepared to quote from the explanatory statement. And since we are no longer going to discuss this, my dear colleagues and colleagues, we really are not going to discuss it today, so I highly recommend that you read the press. Read the reason message. It's really worth it, 'cause I haven't had a chance to sit here in about five years. It is really a demonstration of how the ministry itself will actually admit that it is incompetent on many sides. Well, I guess I'd put it very briefly then. That explanatory note has about seven, six pages, and that's why you're reading it in a really short time. But it's really worth reading. [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] I would like to point out that the previous government and the current government, although one political party no longer sits in it, are almost identical. And that last government, one very large electronic, let's say, has made a difference in our country. She succeeded in introducing herself in two years. That means since we only had an intention here at the end of 2014, until it started to work really in practice. Not only was it published in the Collection of Laws, but many had to follow it, so it was in 2016 in December and you probably know where I'm going. That was an electronic sales log.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u17	So please calm down, honourable Members and Members. Yes, please calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u18	I have two more minutes, so please hold, colleagues. The electronic record of sales was managed by the previous government in two years not only to bring life within the meaning of the law, but also very practically. This means that entrepreneurs have already had to report every receipt, and it is certainly not a system that is not robust, which would not be difficult to implement. And then other entrepreneurs and other entrepreneurs were involved in it, and there should be others in the plan. So here's a demonstration that if you want to, the government can really put in place a very difficult system. It's not always such a fiasco as it is with erecept or here with eIncompetent. But obviously, there are interests that are higher and those that have a lower priority and are less attentive to. Anyway, as long as we're dealing with an incompetent...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u19	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u20	I understand that everyone wants to leave impatiently, and we're gonna get to the debate one more time. Well, I guess I'll just apply to the next one when he gets to that point again. But as far as eneschopenka is concerned, I would like to know, as well as the previous speakers, whether the same people who processed the amendment at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will now be working on the new version, or if it is precisely because the explanatory report shows that they were obviously not too careful in their work when I speak very gently, so whether they are already being released or if they are still working at the Ministry. Apparently, they didn't do their job very well, and now we're discussing this press for them. That should be made clear to the Minister as well. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] And since it's 7:00 p.m., I'm obviously gonna sign up next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-005-032.u21	Okay. So I'm interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning and I wish you a good evening.
