ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-001-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 259/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, and other related laws, and Act No. 92/2018 Coll., amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /house print 204/ - first reading We interrupted the discussion of this point in the general debate on Tuesday 18 September this year at the 19th meeting. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] Mrs Jana Maláčová, Mr Lukáš Kolářík, is at the rapporteur's table, so we can begin. We are in an adjourned general debate, but I am still asking the Minister if he is interested in speaking. He's not interested in getting off. In that case, Mr Janulík's speech is next. [[Rejection reaction from the scene.]] Well, there's an unexploded application from the interrupted general debate. My colleague, Janulík, is giving up his performance. So I don't have a written application. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will proceed to the vote. We will decide in the vote the order number 186 that I have begun, and I ask where it is for the commandment of this press to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 186: 160 for 145, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies? It's not like that. We can therefore conclude that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee, and the time limit for discussion is under the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur, and I finish point 25. Let's continue with point number
