ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u1	The joint debate on points 50 and 52 / House prints 201 and 211/ At this point, they're not all on the board. Yes, thank you. However, before that, I have, with a written application with the priority right of Mr Ivan Bartoš, as President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, guests, fellow Members, I have taken this floor with priority rights for several reasons. Later in the debate, Mr. František Kopřiva will speak with the club's opinion. I would therefore just like to say, in the introduction, the basic reasons why we support the proposal, which was the original means of allowing same-sex people to live together in a relationship and this is called marriage. I'm not going to look for the right adjective to do that. Yes, we're defending values here. Values are for me and I hope for many people here, freedom but also equality. And the main idea of what we are talking about is that we should accept this equality not only in our eyes, but also in our eyes. It is important to realize that this is not a matter involving a small group of people. It's not like that. Branched families in the Czech Republic, everyone has, if they have a wider family, some relative who is from the LGBT group, who simply has the opposite sexual orientation. I would like to say, and there is a lot of this traditionalistic view here, let us note that in a referendum on the possibility of entering into marriage, the votes of both citizens and Catholic Ireland have decided. I took the priority word especially for the reason that, given the number of entries, it seems to me that we would not have to discuss this point again today. I'd be sorry. I think that we are the Parliament of the Czech Republic, we are the Chamber of Deputies, people are watching us, and in this context we are being watched by a large number of people, and we should be working on this today and we should have a final vote. Therefore, I propose that we act and vote in both thousand and nineteen o'clock. So it's 201 and 211. That's my first suggestion. Otherwise, the support of this proposal comes from the Pirates Club and from the STAN Club, so the support of two clubs is secured. My second proposal, from the logic of the matter, is a motion to reject the proposal made here by a fellow Member of the Výborný. That's the press 211. Thank you for your attention. So there are two proposals coming from me. The first is to act and vote after 19 o'clock, both for the press 201 and for the press 211 and at the same time there is a motion to reject the House press 211. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u3	Thank you, too. I will register both of your proposals, and we will, if necessary, vote at the end of the debate. I will now call the Members to the Chamber because we will have to deal with the procedural proposal to vote and act after 19 o'clock. There's an application for check-out, so I'll check you out. Please sign up again with your MP cards. For those who are coming - we will vote on whether we will continue this debate after the two thousand even after the 19th time. An hour, and a vote. The number of MPs hasn't stabilized... I think so. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of continuing after 19 o'clock. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 242, 134 Members and Members are registered, for 43, against 51. The motion was denied. We will continue the debate until 19 o'clock. Thank you. Next, Vice-President Okamura is entered in the debate with priority rights. Mr Patrik Nacher has a point of fact here, but that is a mistake, I presume. I ask for peace in the hall so that the Members who leave us leave quietly. Mr. Vice-President to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my opinion on the first proposal for the SPD, which means that this is the proposal of members of the ANO movement, Pirates, ČSSD, STAN, KSČM, TOP 09. Well, what we are discussing here and what these Members are presenting is no formal alignment of any parameters, but it is a revolutionary change in our philosophy. We decide to break up a marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman, and we replace it with the definition that it's a relationship between two people. It's not a small thing. If this law is adopted that repeals the definition of a standard family that disturbs Dad and Mom, then we take a slow but certain path to abolishing the definition of sex and to abolishing the role of a man and woman and so far a standard family in society as we and our ancestors have known for thousands of years. By undoing the word of the groom and bride, such a big slip would have just begun. Take a look at the surrounding countries. Then comes the cancellation of addressing ladies and gentlemen and multiculturalists forbid us to raise boys as boys, girls as girls, because sex is not a given nature, but one can simply choose. [[16.30 hours]] Everyone, as you're sitting here, remember your parents -- your dad, your mom, your grandmothers, your grandpas. What would you think of this crazy idea of breaking up a marriage as a union of men and women? Moravians probably have an idea of what kind of haunting would fly through the air. According to the novel's attorneys, this is a fight for equality between gays and lesbians with heterosexuals. It seems to me to be on the edge of pulling sexuality into politics. As a SPD movement, we consider sexual orientation to be a private matter for every person and it is absurd to replace nature or bůh with law. A man will always be a man and a woman will always be a woman. A man doesn't give birth to a child, and a woman doesn't give birth to a child without a man. Neither biological father nor mother can be replaced by a second mom or a pseudo-dad. Marriage and its support in this form, in which it has existed for thousands of years, have preferred all state systems in history, regardless of the company's sexual preferences, because it has never been directly related to sexual life. In ancient Rome, pederastia, the abuse of boys by older men, was sought after by the norm. In ancient Rome, homosexuality and bisexuality were less affected, but there was no taboo. About Caesar, his soldiers sang that he was the man of all the women and women of all the men without taking away his popularity. Despite all the fact that sexuality was not taboo and any orientation was even considered almost normal, no one has ever thought for thousands of years what had occurred to some of our legislators of those parties that I have named, i.e. it is the movement YES, Pirates, ČSSD, STAN, KSČM and TOP 09, maybe some of the others that I don't even have in my list yet. I mean, I'm gonna put a sexual relationship on the level of marriage. Marriage is supported by each state for a fundamental reason. Every nation, every political and more self-liberal system needs to survive, and it can only survive in humans. Children can only give a relationship between men and women, even today, despite the fact that we are trying to produce children artificially. It is a complete fact and documented by thousands of studies that a child who lacks a male or female role model is, in its own way, disabled and leaves significant traces of it. Screaming that the family of two decent men is better than the father and mother of alcoholics is demagogy. An alcoholic or a junkie can and often is a homosexual as well as a heterosexual. All relevant studies will confirm that if children are in a natural family of their own, even in a holodeck, that family will always be better for them than any more self-serving substitute. Family law should therefore be clear. Family, and thus marriage is a union between a man and a woman in order to produce, give birth, and educate children. The state should begin the fundamental support of working families with children, making a fruitful and lasting union between a man and a woman a privileged position, because it is irreplaceable for our survival as a state and a nation. As my explanation suggests, the SPD will not support this bill. And now let me comment on the second bill and it is a constitutional law to anchor marriage. Dear ladies and gentlemen, when I read the draft of this constitutional law, I first thought that desperate times make us do desperate deeds, and so within the framework of defending fundamental values, we try absolutely standard and obvious truths by law, seemingly the highest law, i.e. the Constitution. He's here for example. the right of citizens to defend themselves and their country with a gun in their hand, or such a primitive and obvious fact that marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman. As in the case of weapons, I recall the cruel fact that we are not sovereign countries because of the European Union, but a country that is actually conquered, where our constitutional laws have no power towards the government in Brussels, and even the stupidest EU directive has a higher power from the point of view of law than the Czech laws. In spite of this, it is also a good way to go, i.e. this draft constitutional law, to try to anchor the fundamental rules in our Constitution. Not because we have reversed the right from Brussels in any way, but so that some people can open their eyes and see the real state of our state of justice and start to wonder what is right and whether it is not time to think about change. Even the sovereign Czech Republic can be an organic and functional part of the European community. As far as the present proposal is concerned, we regret that we, the strongest and most united advocates of traditional European values, have left us out of the proposal. I understand the reasons. We have a permanent pre-election, and the fact is that the open participation of the SPD in this proposal would mean strengthening the SPD, because we are the only ones in this House who, as a whole, the whole movement, including the simple members and our voters, are unconditionally taking the view that parents are the father and mother, that marriage is, of course, an institutionalized relationship between men and women, and that it is an institute which, in all possible respects, must be preferred by the state, in the interests of a nation that needs decent working families who produce and raise decent and hardworking children. I understand that KDU-ČSL must develop some covert maneuver to defend traditional Christian values after many of its candidates supported or did not question the adoption of children by homosexual couples, who, as Chairman of the Pilsen organization KDU-ČSL Adam Komenda or exministrator for KDU-ČSL Daniel Hermann, personally supported the demonstration of homosexuals and other sexually different people requesting my court for further and other advantages, often at the expense of the standard relationship between men and women. If today the government Members are proposing to cancel - virtually. Members of the KDU-ČSL and others - propose to abolish the institution... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If the government Members today propose to abolish the institution of marriage, as it has been conceived worldwide for thousands of years, it is based on the positions of members of the previous government, where the Ministry of Culture of Mr Hermann of KDU-ČSL has quite openly supported such efforts by the official patronage of the Prague March, without any public protest by the leadership of the KDU-ČSL. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the context, the SPD will support the draft constitutional law by all votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u5	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, I'll read the note. Mr Kolovratník apologizes from 17 a.m. to the end of the negotiations for family reasons and apologizes to Members Třešňák and Lipavský from 16.35 to 18.00 for working reasons. Now we should continue the debate, but unfortunately there is no member of the government present, as I have been warned. Well, I think Minister Brabec is-- he's coming, so if you don't mind, I think... Yes, he's here, thank you. In that case, we can continue and, next, Mr Kopřiva, who will give the opinion of the Pirates' MP, is entered into the debate with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, the honourable public, after more than a year in this parliamentary term, we are coming to this very intensively discussed proposal, respectively. two oppositions, against successive proposals, and I believe that the debate will be substantive. That is why, in the spirit of this matter, I will not even respond to my previous speaker, and I will first of all comment on the proposal to the amendment to the Civil Code, because I am equally convinced that the opposition grudge is more of a rape of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms than any constructive opponent of the proposal to equalize marriage for homosexuals. I am pleased that the representatives of the six parliamentary parties, the six Houses of the Parties, were found by the supporters and promoters of the amendment to the Civil Code, and I also have a positive assessment of the Government's positive position on this proposal. [[16.40 hours]] For starters, I'd like to define what we're talking about here. We don't interfere with any traditions, some long thousands of years of traditions that are unchangeable, but we're talking about civil marriage, civil marriage. Civil marriage is a legal construct. It's not an ancient tradition. Historically, civil marriage was enacted for the first republic. Since 1919, there has been a choice between a church or a civil marriage. And the motivation was to allow people of all religions or even non-confessions the same right to guarantee a minimum standard for all people, regardless of their religious affiliation or religion. And I think the fact that we're a secular state, we all agree on that here, and no one wants to contradict it. So one more time. We don't interfere with how the marriages are arranged by the Church. We're talking about the civil marriage, the state. And here I am convinced, and I believe that other translators who have co-signed the proposal that the state should not be an arbiter of what is normal. The state shouldn't normalize. The state shouldn't be spying on people and assigning them different rights accordingly. The state is supposed to guarantee everyone the same minimum standards. The state should guarantee that everyone has equal access to rights and obligations. Already according to the existing definition in the Civil Code, marriage is only a prerequisite for maturity, self-righteousness and unrelatedness of spouses. There's no talk of sexual orientation anymore. And this amendment to the Civil Code no longer takes any rights from anyone, she only extends them to all. So they all have the same rights. So it doesn't restrict anyone's right, it doesn't deprive anyone. No group, no individuals. And I believe that all citizens should be equal before the law and before the state. Then, of course, here comes the complaint, why marriage, why it can't be adjusted in any other way. Well, that's definitely a relevant question, and we can look at it in detail. So the main reason why the registered partnership that already exists isn't enough is the practical differences. Unfortunately, there are many practical differences and, unfortunately, they are quite fundamental. This is basically what a registered partnership makes the same sex couples second-class citizens, because registered partners and partners can only register at 14 offices, while marriage can be concluded essentially on any matrix. Furthermore, there is no common property for registered partners, no entitlement to a widow's pension in the event of the death of a partner. There is no entitlement to the transfer of the different social benefits of the partner. The child is then not entitled to an orphan's pension in the event of the death of a non-nebological parent. Finally, there's a problem with parenting before the law. So registered partners can't take their partner's or partner's child, and they can't adopt a child from an institution. The way of equal marriage has been taken by 26 states, last time in 2017, it was Finland, Malta, Germany and Austria. And it's the easiest way, proven. There is no problem in these countries and what is the subject of the proposal has actually occurred, only a few words in the Civil Code will change. Furthermore, in the UK, the reduction in the number of young people's suicides is sometimes linked to the law of equal marriage for all. As far as traditions are concerned again and so on, as we all know, social trends are evolving and society is not stable. And we can see the development. Because, for example, in June 2016, based on Median's survey, 67 percent of Čech supported marriage regardless of sexual orientation, and this February, 75 percent of respondents agreed to the question: When two people love each other, should they have the possibility of a guaranteed partner life in marriage, regardless of their sexual orientation? So the support also grows in Czech society. Not only beyond our borders, but also here in the Czech Republic support for the general public is growing. The trend is clear and we have the opportunity to write history and be the first post-communist country to make it possible. Because so far, marriage has levelled in Western European countries, northern Europe, southern Europe, and then in other countries of the world, but it is 26 states overall. Admitting the status of marriage, or allowing civil marriage to equal sex couples, will not only help these couples, but also wider families, who, for example, cannot participate in the registration. Furthermore, the current Civil Code does not recognize family ties and family relationships, such as sister-in-law, sister-in-law and so on. Another common objection is the issue of parenting and children in rainbow families -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u7	I'll cut you off, Mr. Ambassador. I'd like to ask for a little more peace in the room. I know it's an interesting mattress that we're dealing with, which requires a lot of discussion, but I'd like this discussion to go either through the speaker's desk or outside the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u8	Thank you, Mr President. This opens up the other part of my performance, which I would probably start with, that those kids in the same sex families, or those kids already have the same sex parents. It's just that they're in conflict with the reality where this situation already exists, and the law, the legislation. So that's what we're trying to straighten out with the proposal for an amendment to the Civil Code. The same sexual couples are already raising children and raising them often successfully. I believe parents do not share heterosexual and homosexual, but simply good parents and bad parents. According to a study published by 11. 10. 2008 at Michigan State University, which was called A Meta-Analysis of Developmental Outcomes for Children of Same-Sex and Heterosexual Parents, so this metaanalysis compared 19 studies over the past 20 years and confirmed that the negative effect on children is not and children are doing just as well. In addition, she pointed out that in studies that proved otherwise or tried to prove otherwise, she revealed very serious methodological errors in these opposition studies. The study can be traced. But we don't have to go far beyond the border. Marriage for identical sex couples is also supported by many Czech personalities. We can name, for example, Professor Petr Weiss, or the head of the Department of Clinical Psychology at St. Anna in Brno, Dr. Spurná, or the director of the National Institute of Mental Health of Professor Cyril Höschl. And one last thing. In addition to these experts and experts in child care, parenting and psychology, the Constitutional Court has already decided that the child's interest should come first. By finding 3226/16 of June 29, 2017, the Constitutional Court pointed out that if a child has two parents of the same sex abroad, for example, under foreign law, and they travel to the Czech Republic with a child, they should be viewed as parents, both parents. Don't let one of them get off at the airport and lose that parent status. [[16.50 hours]] I will quote only a brief paragraph from the finding: the obligation of the State to respect the right to family life is not merely that it must not prevent persons having family ties from living together and implementing these relationships. In the event that a family life based on a legal basis already exists between persons, it is the responsibility of all public authorities to act in such a way that this relationship can develop, and the legal guarantees that protect the relationship between the child and his parents must be respected. So these examples, such as this view of the Constitutional Court, show that current legal practice does not really correspond to reality, and in the context of the fact that children in rainbow families are doing well, so our proposal to amend the Civil Code would straighten the legislation into reality. And the last thesis that has nothing to do with it, or even remotely, with this proposal under discussion, but I really think that children are supposed to grow up primarily in a domestic environment and a loving family rather than in a state institution. I think that everyone who calls themselves a liberal must confirm that we do not want children to grow up in state institutions. Another common reproach is that by destroying some traditions, it will go against pro-family politics, or that it may hinder reproduction in some way. Here I would like to say - there everyone will probably see how it is in reality, whether people start families because they have a high position, that they have an exclusive label of marriage, or if people simply start families because they want to have children and that they want to live together in one household. Here I would perhaps tell the opponents through Mr President to focus instead of torpedoing the amendment to the Civil Code, to focus on other things, other factors that I think motivate more people to have children when they decide and hesitate. In my opinion, for example, the pro-family policy consists in increasing the parental contribution, in greater tax reductions, in affordable housing, in providing available housing for young families. And then also the quality and capacity of kindergartens and children's groups, including schools, school quality. I think these are the practical aspects that potential parents and young families are dealing with. The marriage of the same sex couples therefore does not lead to the destruction of the traditional family model, the two models may exist around each other, and vice versa, if the proposal for the amendment to the Civil Code goes through, then the rights are aligned so that all groups, all individuals, all citizens are viewed by the state as equal. I don't want any exclusive privilege. I want to live in a society where everyone has the same access to rights and where everyone has the same responsibilities. I want to live in a society and a state that does not label citizens according to different criteria. I think they register cars, people get married. Let us please rise above paternalism and give the opportunity to marry all couples. Let's not stick to stereotypes and give priority to human happiness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u9	Thank you, too. We are already in the debate, so I will ask Mr Feri's factual remark, and Mrs Šlechtová will be prepared after it, and there are seven factual remarks at the moment. I apologize to Mr Ferim for missing him when I was looking for the government. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to address you through you. These are important proposals. You just broke the law. You didn't summon me and other colleagues, you didn't challenge them, you didn't give them your word, and instead you gave the floor to your party colleague. I would ask you to pay due attention to the management of this meeting. They are, I say, important laws, and the rules should apply equally to everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u11	Thank you. Now I have Mrs. Šlechtová with a point of fact. I would like to point out that I have granted my colleague the right to present the club's opinion in accordance with Section 58 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u12	Mr President, colleagues, Minister, at this point I would just like to respond to the words of President Okamura, because there are things that are not quite good to hear, I think for no one. We interrupt marriage is a lie from President Okamura's mouth. We're disturbing Mom, and Dad's a lie from Mr. Okamura's mouth. We're not dealing with sexuality, we're dealing with equality and equality. And if someone doesn't get it in this Chamber of Deputies, maybe he should think about the whole novel, read it, and maybe go to debates. And there was something that really caught my eye. And that was - if the children do not have both parents, respectively. A man and a woman, they're disabled. So that means that President Okamura thinks that all children who grow up with only one parent, whether it's a woman or a man, are disabled. I would like to mention the last point here, which is that we're not talking about hundreds of people here. That 4 percent of the LGBT community is long over. How many of you sitting here, through Mr President, may have had some sexual experience with the same sex! [[Laughter.]] What the hell are we dealing with? [[Let's hear it in the hall. - With emphasis:]] There are between 5 and 10 percent of us at least! Up to 10 percent, that means one million inhabitants of the Czech Republic are gay or gay! So please, if we're talking about children, we're talking about citizens of our country, at least in some way with respect. I look forward to my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u13	Thank you. And now, please, with a factual remark, Mr Marek Novák. It's jamming, okay. Now, please, Mrs Černochová. Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact. A colleague named Feri already said that, okay. Mr. Holík, please. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, Mr Minister, I will begin with such a reflection. Man has lived on earth for about a million years. Maybe the last ten thousand is already homo sapiens and lately we even call ourselves homo sapiens sapiens, so you think twice. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Of course, during this development... [[The President is asking for peace.]] There were always some individuals who had a homosexual relationship. And they're always extinct. Because there were no other options. Today, with the development of technology, we're starting to find ways to reproduce. If you don't mind what Mrs Maxová here said through Mr President, yes, two homosexual couples will be married and one of them will go - or one of them will go into the reproduction department. I don't know how it would be with men. I'm really trying to imagine where I'd go if I fell in love with some guy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u15	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u16	At present, it has been said here, yes, there are not four percent of us here, but ten. If this trend continues, how much society will evolve. We're all going to the reproductive center! Who actually will lead this company further! I'm still quick to see how much time I have. Yes, sexuality has been punished in the past, let's say, then tolerated, currently registered, then we want a marriage. And what's next! Who's transporting? Normal heterosexual couples or homosexual?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u17	Time, Mr. Ambassador! Thank you. Now with a point of fact, Mr Výborný, then Mr Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I've got a lot of notes here, I don't think I can make it all, it's gonna get there all the time. First thing through you to Mr Kopřiv. That's a total contradiction. You say in the first sentence that you want to have a substantive debate here, and in the second sentence, my colleague, when you're going through here, you say that there's been some kind of opposition grudge. I'll take that as a foul. That's really not fair! We started working on our proposal in January, we prepared the reason report very consistently and it is not a sultry proposal and you know it very well! So don't say anything about a substantive debate. I didn't mention it at first. I would very much like us to return here to a cultivated, decent and factual debate, and not attack each other with these unfair arguments. Very specifically, now, on some of the points that have been raised here. Well, the basic thing. There's no right to marriage. Just like there's no right to a child. A child is a gift. And if anyone's talking about a child having equal parents, I think it's a contradiction. That's not possible. The child is biologically formed by the fusion of two sex cells, male and female. So it's not possible. And if we debate at the level that we have a right to something, it's exactly the current mentality of claim. We live in a time when we have the idea that we are entitled to everything we remember. We're entitled to a marriage. We're entitled to a child. But the child, ladies and gentlemen, I believe, is not really the result of social engineering and the fact that we are going to buy a roll for the store or that we are going to get socks. We are actually getting somewhere where, I believe, Czech society is not supposed to be. As far as the research goes, I don't think there's any point in pushing and convincing around here. As there are researches both international and Czech for the second proposal, I think there is no point in opening it. Perhaps it would be interesting to remind you that there exists - I will finish one thought. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That there have been two petitions, which at this point, in terms of the number of signatures, are exactly the same. Each petition has about 70 or 80,000 signatures. So it is obvious - that the public is also divided in this. [[The President points out that the Excellent Members must be interrupted.]] And the other questions... [[It was not understood, the President has already spoken.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u19	If so, please log in again. I now, please, Mr Bělobrádek, will prepare Mrs Maxová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Vice Prime Minister, colleagues. To speak to Mr Kopřiva through you, Mr President. Talk about the tradition of marriage through prism - he's not even here, I see... [[Mr Kopřiva suggests he's present.]] Yeah, sorry. ... as we understand it, and what we consider to be a marriage in our cultural circle is the question of Rome at least. That means, I don't think we should narrow it down like this. And, of course, if marriages are defined that way, it is possible, as in some countries, that churches and religious societies will also be forced to put people and religious ties together, or that is a very serious matter. Moreover, what is defined here is indeed a cultural matter, because we believe that marriage in our environment is a union between one man and one woman. So it may soon be possible that such a further procedure can be enacted here in the case of polygamy or polygamy. The trucnávrh proposal has already been explained that this is indeed not true. And if you say when people like each other to have a marriage, that's a complete misunderstand of family law. Family law is not here to legitimize or legalize or modify people's feelings in some way. That's not really what family law is for. So that people like each other, that's possible. It's okay. But there's absolutely nothing in that state. That's not what family law is for. Another foul was to talk about not wanting children to be in state facilities. So if you mean the constitutions, there's a lot of kids in them, but there's a lot of them that are legally free. This means that this argument is totally odd, because if the child is not legally free, then no one can adopt it. And that's enough to show interest in you visiting him once a year, sending him a postcard or something, and there's no way this child could be released for adoption. And the third thing. What they are focusing on is something else, my colleague, through Mr President, it was KDU-ČSL, which passed tax discounts and others, and significant, just in 2017, I think it was some 5 billion. crowns left in the pockets of working parents. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So at least don't pull it off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u21	Thank you. And now, Mrs Maxová, then Mr Výborný, then Mr Martínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would very much support a colleague of the Výborný to return to a substantive debate, whether it's about point 50 or point 52. And I would also like to ask colleagues to avoid - which was also in the speech by President Okamura - any haunting of what happens when. I think it doesn't belong here, that we want to debate in a matter of fact about the pitfalls and the negatives. I will also respond to some things that children do not have role models. Children have patterns, let them grow up in a full family, in an incomplete family, in facilities for children, let it be ZDVOPs, etc., although the patterns are of course different and everywhere there is a male and female pattern, different ways of behavior. And I would still like to respond that there is no claim on the child. It's just not automatic that it's a free decision, of course, for adults to want to produce a child, they want to take care of it. And we can't even deny this free decision to the same sex couples. And by lawing the status that marriage is only a bond between a man and a woman - and a colleague of the Excellent spoke of birth rate, I dare say that by this law we will certainly not raise birth rate in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u23	Thank you, too. And now I beg Mr Excellent with a point of fact, then Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u24	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to give specific figures because this is where we started talking about the adoptions. So I got the actual numbers from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. This states that 377 children were adopted in 2016, in 2017 it was 393. The number of legally free children is not recorded by the Ministry, but gives the opinion that the qualified estimate is about 500 children. So just so we know that we're not moving in any thousands or so. That's one thing. Second thing. I didn't mention it in my first explanatory report because I really wanted - and we chose the path - to go positive, i.e. here stress the value of marriage as a union between a man and a woman, because we did not want to focus solely on the negation of the proposal that was then created here by Mrs Maxová. I think that's right. And that was our goal. So we have great respect and great respect for any union. If someone lives, for example. in a home with his brother, his grandmother, etc., so this is a cohabitation that can provide great support for both. And he's supposed to have respect and respect for society. So is the coexistence of same-sex people. But what we're saying - same-sex marriages aren't marriages. That's what it's all about. That's what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u25	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Martínek, who is the last one with a point of fact at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to really quickly complete my colleague Bělobrádek, who actually said that the traditional dates back to ancient Rome. Yes, it does. There, too, were found emperors who had already married men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u27	Thank you, too. This has exhausted the factual points and we will return to the general debate. So I beg Mr Feri, who is now the first to be registered, Mrs Majerová after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Your progress can now be ruled out. My esteemed colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, the public, I had a structured speech, but it fell apart, so the speech fell apart as well. But for the very beginning, I would like to mention a few points on which perhaps, even if my colleague, Mr Janulík, is laughing through the President, we may agree. [[17.10 hours]] What I personally think is very damaging to the debate that is disturbing and obscuring is labeling, but from both sides. That means when someone supports a same-sex marriage, he's not automatically a social engineer who wants to decompose our society, just like when someone's comfortable with the current situation and feels like there's nothing to change about it, so it's not some homophobe. And that's the attitude I'm entering into this debate with. Another thesis. In the debates, in the House of Hearings and everywhere else, it was said that marriage is a permanent non-changing union, but from the point of view of legal marriage, of course, marriage has evolved differently, just as family law has evolved as part of private law. I didn't mean to make a historical argument. The marriage was first anchored in our territory by the Břetislavův Decrees in 1039. This would be unfair and cunning to argue in this way, but the beginning of modern family law is put into ABGB, which means the Austrian general Civil Code, which has been in force in our country since 1811. By 1867, when you wanted to marry, a heterosexual marriage, you had to ask for the so-called political consensus of the authorities of that day. And let me quote from one of the stats, which is called a few notes on the marriage in ABGB. According to the Code, official consent was required of small craftsmen and workers. In order to obtain consent, the applicant had to provide evidence that he was able to support his family. His physical fitness for work and his medical condition have been examined. Political consensus was often directed against young, healthy and working people who did not have large assets, and there was a danger that, in the event of illness or unemployment, the list of municipal poor would be extended with their families. Neither were marriages granted to persons who did not have good manners. There are also cases where consensus has not been given, since the bride was not suitable for the future groom and according to the officials the man had enough time to marry or the older applicant no longer needs to get married, so it just knocks it off somehow. At the same time, the Civil Code ABGB in Section 91 explicitly states: "The man is the head of the family. " That doesn't apply anymore. - My colleague Brázdil here says he is, all right. § 92 - The wife receives the name of the man and enjoys the rights of his condition. He is obliged to follow a man to his place of residence, to help what is in the household and in the earnings, and, if it requires domestic order, to carry out and to make provision for the man made. [[Restlessness in the left side of the hall.]] § 155 - Nonmarital children do not enjoy the same rights with spouses. There's no sneaky argument here. These provisions were in force in our legal order until 1949. Now a short thesis that responds to what has been said several times, namely some threat to the traditional family. On this point, I take the stand of a smart mountaineer, and I believe that the traditional family does not threaten the same-sex marriage, but divorces. And that's what we should focus on. Now maybe one more thing. I would say that in the original point of fact, but I will no longer be able to hit Mr President. Types of argument fouls. It's a slippery slope. They claim, without proof, that a decision will necessarily lead to a series of others and, as a result, it will cause a whole chain of unfortunate consequences. Let me give you a few examples. First of all, we're going to approve the same sex marriage, we're going to have polygamy and polygamy here. No. Another example, a model. If we allow free running of dogs on parks, people will take them without baskets on buses and soon on board airplanes. And from that point on, they're one step away from biting the pilot and causing some sort of air disaster. Completely absurd. And about eight or twelve other examples were given by Vice-President Okamura. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] Same sexual couples and raising children. You know, it really can be found many opinions from different experts who have different attitudes about it, but they outweigh the positions that say that same-sex couples don't raise bad and deviant children by definition. For example, Professor Weiss: "Since the 1970's, there have been a number of researches in the world about children who have grown up in the family of single sex couples. These researches had unambiguous results, no disruption was found in children either in terms of sexual orientation, identity, neuroticism, or even in terms of their position in the school team." Zvěřina Professor: "No knowledge entitles us to believe that perhaps homosexual couples can somehow harm children. Homosexual orientation is neither a psychic disease nor a learned habit." Dr. Mertin: "From the point of view of child psychologists, we need to think about how both ladies will satisfy the needs of the child. I don't see why homosexual families wouldn't satisfy them. And if it doesn't satisfy them 100%, then we need to know that no family can do it to that extent." So much for that, and I believe that other speakers will mention the conflicting position of experts. Then one point that I noticed in public discourse was about conservatism, or some conservative concept of this thing. It is owed to mention, and it is completely empirically confirmed that conservatives vote a little differently abroad. When we look at the 2011 vote where the same-sex marriage was dealt with, there were a hundred conservative Members voting for the same-sex marriage. And the 2011 David Cameron speech is known, sorry, it was in 2013: "Conservatives believe in human ties, that society is stronger when we make a promise to each other and support each other. I don't support same-sex marriages despite being a conservative. I support same-sex marriages because I'm a conservative." And I may allow myself to follow up on that from the position of the youngest Member by being actually absurd in some way, that someone is making so much effort, and I admire it so that he can achieve marriage, which is an institute for which many of my peers do not show the slightest interest. And then again, it's not just the content, it's the form and the unjustified distribution. This is an I.D. [[He's showing his ID.]] We all have it, and we all have it. And now imagine that some administrative authority would issue you a yellow I.D. because you're an illegitimate child. He'd say, "You're using the same rights, but since you're an illegitimate child, you're wearing yellow." You'd probably be like, "Why is that? What's the big deal? Why should I be divided in some way?" This should, without a doubt, be heard in this debate. And when we talk about the debate, please do not reject this proposal in the first reading for a simple reason. I believe that this debate will be fruitful, and I wish everyone who is interested would comment on it. And that's not possible here in plenary, that's possible in committees. Please let this go on and let us discuss it properly. Thank you and I wish you a pleasant two hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u29	Thank you, too. And now, with Mr Výborný's point of fact, I beg you, Mr Bělobrádek will be prepared with the de facto Mr Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u30	Thank you for the floor. I think it would be good to react immediately before leaving it at the end. Not everything again, just what I thought was the most important thing. When these children are constantly argued, one thing is, of course, that we should prefer and support the ideal, that is, an ideal when the child grows up with some kind of maternal and paternal pattern. That's one thing. And more importantly, when someone argues the rights of a child, we have a right here, above all, to have a child know their parents, and the right to care for them. By the way, Article 7 (2) of the basic Regulation refers to Article 7 (1) of the basic Regulation. 1 Convention on the Rights of the Child. And this logically is exactly what is being withheld at the moment when children are being raised within the LGBT community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u31	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Bělobrádek, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u32	Thank you for the floor. Sometimes it sounds like someone wants to take away gay couples' kids. That never sounded like it, and I don't think it's on the table at all. So I don't think it's entirely fair to use it that way. Of course, homosexuals can adopt children today, that's what needs to be said. And it also needs to be said that when a couple of the same sexes live together and raises a child together, even if they're not married, there are judicacies here that, for the child's sake, the courts decide that the child is then raised by the other partner. And the vast majority of the things that are mentioned can be treated according to the Civil Code. [[17.20 hours]] It's just that marriage in our cultural environment, in my opinion, is a union between one man and one woman. That there are other volumes, that's also possible, that's a fact, of course, but that doesn't mean it's a marriage. It's like saying that there's water pouring into the glass and into the porcelain, so that doesn't mean that a glass is a cup. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u33	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Kopřiva, with a point of fact. Mr Dolejš will be ready. I have four factual points here at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I take the liberty of reacting, and I am sorry, Mr colleague, through Mr President, I am sorry that my colleague Excellent carries my mark so badly. It is true that it is a very sharp designation. And it is true that this House press 111, the opposing proposal, was uploaded into the system just two days later than our proposal, before that House press 201. However, I would not like to reduce the debate to who previously uploaded what proposal into the system. And I understand that, of course, the ideas are consistent and the opinions are consistent. So it doesn't matter who made the proposal. I'd point out that, and I've already talked about where we want to go internationally. I don't like bringing international, European issues here right now, but we talk about this here and there often in plenary. And the map of Europe is clear. It's where we sometimes sulk when we negotiate some sort of noncommittal declarations, so we're completely unnecessary to join the Eastern bloc here, or the Trump, Orbán and so on. And I just think it's kind of the Czech conservative sulking. And I'd rather belong to the west of Europe. So it's just to explain why I'm bothered by the a prior rejection of these untraditional approaches and, let's say, progressive proposals, because they're quite common in Western Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u35	Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, although Mr Dolejš is already ready, I have here an amended apology from Mr Kolovratník, who therefore apologizes to us between 17.16 and 19.15 for family reasons. [[Fun in the hall.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I listen to that ping-pong word, maybe it's just in my head, but yet there's an impression that two camps are proving something, they're pushing for a kind of civilization identity, and one or another thinks they're saving the right civilization. I feel that this is not the case, that the border does not run between the chariot walls of those who value tradition and those who break those traditions and bring change into society without seeing the end. I just feel like we're all being formed by some personal, domestic, and professional experience, that we're being treated as individuals, that it's not about ideological battalions. Two examples so I won't be long. One example. A Catholic country like Spain has this institute, so many citizens of Spain who are mostly Catholics had to be for it and consume it. Are they bad Catholics? Are there sheep that should not be in a common Christian fold? Definitely not. Opposite case. The progressive left is applying to this agenda, it has it in its program alongside other agendas, of course, and it is very active. For example, Die Linke, Die Ehe für alle, a marriage for all, is a concept that is very actively promoted, and their rainbow platform is visible and respected. Yet there are individuals on the left who simply have the problem of actively supporting something like this through this personal development. So let's think about it. The line is in the middle of us. Humanity and society are evolving. The legal environment is developing as well. And there have been arguments repeatedly made here that it's not at all about hurting someone, restricting someone. We're not restricting anyone. But we'll give some more chances. That's the point. And that chance is not only in the level of rights, but also in the symbolic one so that they don't feel inferior among us. [[Time warning]] That's all it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u37	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Maxová's point of fact. Mr Bartoň will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u38	Thank you. I'm just gonna put some things back on a plane. Yes, it is true that in our Czech Republic, a homosexual individual - an individual - can adopt a child. No one's questioning that. However, it is not automatic that if he lives in a registered partnership, if something happens to him, the child will automatically be entrusted to the other partner or partner. It offers very beautifully that automatically. But most of the time, the OSPOD jumps in, and most of the time, different grandparents and non-grandparents jump in, and the baby really doesn't know that he's gonna be put into the care of the other registered partner, parents, mother, father. So let's not do this here automatically, because we know that the process of adoption in our country is not easy at all, especially when we distinguish children under 12 years of age and over 12 years of age. There are a little different rules. And there's no automatic. And it must also be said that in all countries where marriage was enacted for equal sex couples, there was no social disaster, there was no breakdown of the traditional family, there was no reduction in the number of marriages between men and women, there was no minor birth of children, etc. So let's really have a good time here and say things the way they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u39	Thank you, too. Mr Bartona, please, and Mrs Procházková will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u40	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on Mr Feri and his interpretation in history and on the subsequent remarks made by the KDU. I've noticed that one of the things that bothers with this proposal is the name of marriage, that some still think of the term as something else. And on top of that, the company is evolving. The company is developing and taking on new concepts, as they are called. I've made a bit of history as a colleague of Feri. 102 years ago - copulation sheet. [[He's pointing.]] The copulation sheet used to be published, that's his name. It's a marriage certificate today. No one's taking it anymore that we have to go this far into the past. But these are traditional values, traditionally a copulation sheet was published earlier. Today we call it a marriage certificate, and it seems normal to us. So does the company. And when we approve this change, we feel perfectly normal that marriage will be for everyone, not just for heterosexuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u41	Thank you, too. And please, Mrs Procházková, with a point of fact. Mr. Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through you, I would like to respond to Mr Výborný's speech, which said here that we should support the ideal of the family, that is, a man and a woman. But, you know, that's not what this argument is all about at this point. This dispute is about equality of access to some technical standard. And that's the marriage. You still have it in common with tradition, with ideals. But today is different. This is just a technical standard that everyone should be entitled to. And if you all turn to that ideal, why is 50 percent of the marriage getting divorced today? So why don't you think they're keeping the ideal family? Because they probably don't have terms, because it just doesn't suit them. On the contrary. A lot of people live single today, or so-called. In a pile. Why? 'Cause they're just fine with it. So let's give everyone the right to choose what suits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u43	Thank you. Mr. Nacher, please. Mr Bělobrádek will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll have my speech when it's my turn. I don't know if it's tonight. But I have been holding on all this time not to react, but I must, on a fellow pirate party through Mr President - they are not listening now anyway. And it's actually the exact same argument that I've already used here, I mean, I'm consistent with other laws, and that's: when the arguments run out, there's always an MP with a map, where they draw that they're already somewhere west of our borders, and we're heading east. That's right, that's the only argument. And if there's no argument, he'll draw with this. And the moment the situation changes, and I'm going to repeat my favorite anti-smoking law when you argued with Austria, and Austria has reversed the argument, so suddenly the argument disappears like steam over water. I'd like to ask a fellow pirate-party colleague if he knows what a soloist is. Sologamia, it's a wedding to yourself. I found out that an Italka woman already married herself, that's exactly the development. And I'll admit that I really don't want to go that way. I don't want to follow it. And it doesn't come from that, and that's the labeling that I'm going somewhere to Russia. That's what we're talking about! And I'm glad Dominik Feri, who's not here, was talking about the labeling. Let's argue factually as Radka Maxová talks about it. The way Dominik Feri talks about it. I don't have a problem with that. But let's stop with the labeling: Whoever has this opinion is backwards. Or he supports stereotypes, said his colleague Kopřiva. Or heading east. And that's exactly the labeling. In other words, we're better, we're modern, we're heading west. And it's not like that, and I don't agree with this person. And I think you're hurting yourself for nothing. And those Members who are somewhere in between won't take your side by labeling them that way. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u45	I also thank Mr Bělobrádek, and I ask that Mr Holík be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u46	Thank you for the floor. So stuffy. Automatically in a registered partnership, that the child is not tried by the other partner - and why should it be if it isn't his biological child? Then the court will decide what is in the best interest of the child. And if it's in the child's best interest to be the partner, then the partner has it. If it's in the child's best interest to be a grandmother, Grandma will get it. I don't see anything wrong with it. As far as conservatives are concerned, not all parties called conservatives are truly conservative. And there are parties that have democracy in their name and have nothing to do with democracy. As far as Catholic Spain is concerned, yes, if it is legal, then everyone must respect it, but that does not mean that they will identify with it and agree with what has been adopted as a standard. Development, yes, everything has its own development. I think that even the aforementioned Rome had its development and ended up having horses in the Senate, and then the Barbař basically cracked them up like raspberries. So he doesn't have to go in the right direction either, and that development can lead to hell. I don't think marriage is a technical standard. There's no way that's happening. It's family law, and I think his point really is something else. That is why the state intervenes in this area to ensure that it achieves some consequence, and it is certainly not fulfilling the needs or thinking that we have a right to something. We don't have the right to happiness, we don't have the right to health, we don't have the right to intelligence, we just have to accept it somehow. As for the other things, I think it will be a matter of further discussion. But please, let's call it right. The development and progressive development as possible, but that doesn't mean it's right. Different things are evolving, civilizations are dying, new things are being created. That doesn't mean that progressive development always has a positive sign. And being conservative doesn't mean being unmodern. There are values that have been modern for 2,000 years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u47	Thank you. I ask Mr Holík to make a point of fact. Mr Klaus will be ready. At this point, we have a total of seven factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u48	Dear colleagues, I will return to my previous performance, when I said that the entire reproductive process in this world, both in humans and in animals and in plants, is given by two individuals of the opposite sex. In these homosexual unions, a child can't be born. It could be the two women, not the men. So all we can do is adopt. And I'm gonna ask, "Is there anyone asking the child who's gonna be adopted?" May I? Am I disturbing you? I'm not rušit. Excellent. [[He's turning to the MPs on the right.]] ...which is adopted, if that's what he wants? Where are the child's rights? What happens when the kid goes to school and his classmates laugh at him "you have two dads" or "you have two moms"? Think of one thing. Child cruelty is very strong and can lead to damage to the individual or suicide. So is this our effort to help this child, or is this just our selfishness? And I have one more question. How's the reproduction gonna go? I don't know why I remember the Polish movie Sexmis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u49	Quiet in the hall, please. And now, please, with Mr Klaus' factual comment, Mr Juchelka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u50	Hello. I have prepared the whole performance, but it will happen sometime in 2020, as I observe the number of performers. So I'd just respond to Mrs. Maxová, I guess, to her performance, the tight one, the other one, the homosexual who lives with the partner who died or something that doesn't automatically get the kid into it, the OSPOD and the grandparents. That's what happens to everyone! When parents are divorced, it's always the OSPOD and the court who thinks the child is. Grandparents often get involved when relationships are bad. So being a homosexual doesn't increase his rights to automatically get custody of a child and defend it with the law. It's just really for who's using weird arguments in this debate. But I'm gonna get off at the material a lot later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u51	Thank you for not spending time. Please Mr Juchelka, Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u52	Have a good day. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, also have a slightly longer text in the debate. However, I would also like to make factual comments here on my colleagues through you, Mr President. First of all, I'm not conservatively sulking. Secondly, when I find out, there are statistically zero children in the Moravian-Silesian region in terms of adoption and adoption at the moment. Zero kids. There is no child that is legally suitable for adoption and adoption. As far as equality is concerned. We're still talking about someone being discriminated against, that there's no equality. It's not true. Every man and every woman in the Czech Republic can marry and marry. He has to meet certain conditions, but anyone can do that. If someone's marriage doesn't suit, it's because the relationship just falls apart. I've never heard a marriage end because it doesn't work or work as institutionally. That they're going to say, "The marriage isn't really, so we're going to get a divorce, but we're going to live together like we're going to live on. Then I think it's nonsense. After all, relationships and marriage are simply the promise of two people who want to get married. Of course, I will say more in the general debate. Probably, as I see it in time and number, probably not today, but I'm certainly behind the fact that marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman and that children should grow up in an environment where this couple is their role models. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u53	Thank you and please take a factual note from Mr Výborný. Mr. Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u54	I can't do it, thank you, Mr Vice-President, for a word. I would like to respond by your means to my colleague Procházková. Please, marriage really isn't a technical standard. I really don't! Marriage is a unique community of men and women. Even in those countries where the same-sex couples' marriage was enacted, go tell them they're the technical standard! That's just not true. Please, let's not say that! And as far as the development is concerned, maybe there's an explanation here as well. Yes, we cannot deny that the legislation of marriage is actually going through some development in our country, but it concerns how the marriage is regulated. This means, for example, the rights of husbands, the status of marriage between men and women in the 19th century, the beginning of the 20th and the beginning of the 21st century. That's right. But there's no historical trace of any developments in our civilization ring about what marriage is. [[17.40 hours]] So that's a union between one man and one woman. Indeed, there has never been any development in this area, and it follows, by the way, that we are having a debate, a legitimate substantive debate on the refinition of marriage, which logically is some radical change in the whole paradigm of family and marriage in the Czech Republic. That's right. I don't know what the outcome will be, but we need to distinguish that development. It develops what is the position of husbands among themselves, in the family, etc., but there is no question of what marriage is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u55	Thank you. Good evening, esteemed colleagues. Another point of fact is signed by Mr Marek Benda and Mrs Radka Maxová, Karla Maříková, Karla Šlechtová and Pavel Bělobrádek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u56	Mr Vice-President, honourable appellants, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling that we will end up with only factual remarks, because I immediately volunteered when the incriminate statements were made, and I am about 20th in line and there are 20 more behind me. Perhaps just two points and I'm really keeping my point of view. First of all, to Mr Kopřiv. With all due respect to his age, speaking contemptuously of the world of Trump and Orbán, I find it at least disrespectful to our allies, either from Visegrad or from the North Atlantic Alliance. I think these are sentences that might not be heard from this counter, virtually. testifies to certain arrogance of the pirate party. And second point. He partially said it to his colleague Výborný. With all due respect to my dear fellow Mrs. Procházková, the Civil Code is not a technical standard. Let's not play games. That may be a registered partnership, and even there, I would argue very much if it was a technical standard. But civil law is a fundamental right that we have in a society that defines us, defines our nature, defines natural persons, legal persons, marriage, ownership and others. So let's not pretend it's a technical standard. This isn't really about technique, it's about redefining something very substantial, and it's already been said here, it's coming from what the word marriage came from. We can, of course, cancel it as a word and confuse it and say it's something else, after the Slovak reindeer or I don't know how, but if we don't do it, it came from two words, and the two words are male and female. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u57	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Radka Maxová is signed up with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u58	Thank you. By your means, Mr President, I will respond to some colleagues. My colleague Bělobrádek - it is still not equality. I mean, if my husband dies, then I automatically or the child automatically knows he's gonna be with me, but when my partner dies in a registered partnership, the kid doesn't automatically know if he's gonna be. So there's still a difference. It's not equality. There's a trial in between, there's an OSPOD in between. It's not equality. To Mr. Holík. Does anyone ask a child in general if he wants to be adopted? I think so, that, of course, without any consent or consent of the guardian on the OSPOD, the adoption is not possible. For that, we have legal standards that already work with us. Please don't scare the children here that they'll be damaged. Here I have the opinion of 28 Czech experts who say: On the basis of expert knowledge, we would like to conclude by summing up that the concerns about the good of children growing up with two mothers or fathers are unfounded and the opening of the institute of marriage to identical sex couples can have a positive impact on the concerns of especially young lesbians and gays from the adoption of families or collectives and their overall mental health. They are experts who work as head of the department of pediatric psychiatry, primary of the department of psychiatry, practical physician for children and adolescents, researcher - National Institute of Mental Health, Sexologist, Gynecologist - Sexology and Andragogy, Director of the Czech Association of Streetwork, Sociologist - Department of Sociology Masaryk University, Head of Department of Psychology - Charles University Pedagogical Faculty, Head of Family Counseling, Marriage and Interpersonal Relations. [[Time warning]] Don't scare me! Please don't scare me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u59	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Karla Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond here to the factual remark of Mrs Procházková, who is talking about equality with everyone. You see, Madam President, it is as if blind people are asking for an arms license or a driver's license so that everyone is equal with everyone. So that the fight for equality with all of us doesn't just kill us all one day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u61	Thank you. Mrs Karla Šlechtová. I'll read the apology I have here before I give my word. From 18.15 to the end of the day, Mrs Jana Levová apologises and from 18.30 until the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Jan Řehounek. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to respond to Mr Holík's words and to Mr Klaus Jr., who unfortunately left, but since he will read my words from the Steno Protocol, I must say that I am very disappointed in his speech. I must say, imagine, fellow Members through the President, you live in a relationship, you're gay, you're gay, you've got a partner, you're sleeping together, everything's fine, your relationship works, it doesn't matter. And all of a sudden, there's a kid, you raise him for 11 years, that partner or that partner dies... [[Notes from the right.]] My colleague, I'm not talking to you either!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u63	I'd like some peace in the courtroom! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u64	Your partner will die. You're gay, or you're gay, and the baby goes to your grandparents, or the court decides on it. And you're totally out in that registered partnership or no partnership if you're gay or gay. This feels right to you that the child who has two parents: the woman - the wife, the man - will eventually lose the other partner in the death of the first?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I have ten applications for factual remarks, so Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u66	Thank you for the floor. I'm just talking about what was said about Rome. I'm not a lawyer, so I asked for an important lawyer. In Roman law, ties of the same sex were not recognized, except for two cases of emperors who, according to preserved reports, had ties with the same sex. However, the arbitraryness of emperors in the form of bizarre stories cannot be regarded as the content of Roman law. It can be concluded that Roman law did not know the marriage of persons of the same sex. It doesn't change the record documenting homosexual behavior at the time. To add that, of course, we cannot continue to inspire ourselves with what was in Rome, because there were other possible volumes. So I was just putting it as a case that marriage isn't something that comes from religion. And then he'll come up with the term. Today they say that when two people live together, they have a boyfriend, a girlfriend. Ittady Marek. My boyfriend is also excellent, and that means that we don't live together or have a sexual relationship. The Civil Code is thinking about it. There are even some provisions as a species, a mate. Plus, the fact that 50 percent of children are born outside of marriage means that about 50 percent of couples don't have any major problems when they're not married. I suppose it can be treated using the Civil Code, regardless of their sex. But I think that's legitimate, and thank you for the debate. I think that rubbing opinions in this direction also makes sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u67	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is that of Mr Jiří Dolejš. Mrs Procházková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u68	Okay, one more piece in the series. If you don't mind, I'd like to return to the fire that was targeted by my famous colleague, Benda, to a less famous colleague, Krátký. Not that I want to make him an attorney for diaboli, he may not even want to, but I think the controversy about the extent to which the implementation of this agenda is correlated with the civilization of the environment is worth paying attention. [[17.50 hours]] Okay. If you're allergic to the name Orbán, we won't talk about Orbán. But when you look at the aforementioned Ireland, the Catholic one who discussed these things, discussed and resolved it with a referendum, and Tanzania, for example, where there is even the hardest punishment for homosexual practices, you may perceive that there is a correlation. And I think it's possible to handle this agenda civilized because we realize it's not about the camps. If Mr Bělobrádek here has spoken of being different conservatives, but they will make a disciplined decision, I am sorry, but I think that the Catholic Confession in Spain has about 90 percent of people. So without Catholics, it would never have received majority support. A comparison from the east. Czechoslovakia decriminalized homosexuality in the early 1960s. It lasted east of us until the end of the Soviet bloc. So the differences are here. It has a little bit to do with the civilization of debate and democratic traditions, and we think about it when we perform here. I understand that each of us has to do our own. To dixi et salvavi animam meam. But it's really not about the flags and the camps, it's about understanding, understanding this symbolic equalization of this group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u69	Thank you for keeping time. President Jakub Michálek apologizes from 17.50 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Procházková. Mr. Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u70	Thank you again for the floor. Through Mr President to his predecessor, Mr Benda. Even if we would admit, according to the Civil Code, that marriage is a right, then why do we deny it to everyone when the Constitution says that we all have rights, equal rights, regardless of sex? Well, that's one thing. And the other to Mrs Maříková. You know, the blind one doesn't meet the basic conditions to shoot. Homosexuals can live in marriage. Nothing's stopping it, they're not hurting anyone. And the fact that he doesn't make babies. I mean, there's a lot of marriages without kids. Even marriages that even those kids don't want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u71	Thank you. Mr. Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u72	Thank you for the floor. Your assistance, Mr Vice-President, to Mrs Šlechtová. Well, of course, the state has nothing to do with who lives with, who sleeps with. This is really a free decision for everyone. I fully respect that. There's nothing to the state after that, and it doesn't, by the way. But you continued that sentence all of a sudden with this - and somewhere a child would appear. I'm actually convinced that the baby doesn't appear and doesn't even wear a stork. We've already said that here. And really as much as everyone can freely choose the form of partnership or cohabitation in which they will live, so there is the right of a child who should not be denied, and the right of a child is nothing more than a desire to have it in some family constellation. Here the right of a child is, among other things, to know his father and his mother. And not that suddenly the baby shows up somewhere. This seems to me like a thing that is ethically on the edge or beyond the edge of bioethics and ethical reasoning at all. And the second thing or the last thing. In the event of a decision on the fate of a child who lives in the same sex couples, then the court decides and the OSPOD decides. Just like heterosexual couples. When you look at practice, practice in the Czech Republic, these authorities actually decide always with regard to the right of the child and the best solution for the child. I think that's important to stress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u73	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Aleš Juchelka. Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, hello again, good evening. I have a factual point, through Mr President, on the speech by Mrs Šlechtová, who I greatly appreciate. She was saying something in this sense - I quote - that there are two homosexuals or two lesbians living together, eating together, living together, sleeping together, and then suddenly there's a baby. Well, I'd like to tell her that the baby won't show up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u75	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ondřej Benešík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u76	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to emphasise, and I would not make a mockery of the fact that there are a lot of factual remarks and a lot of entries here, because I dare say that this is one of the few standards for which the very presentation of Members can affect those Members who are simply not determined. While these other laws are more or less determined by the club's decision, it is divided into coalitions, opposition, left, right, etc., so not here. I will identify some third of the Members who do not have that opinion. And they will stand on one side or the other, and let us talk about these things. I've already seen on Facebook that we're stalling. It's not like that. We're just exchanging opinions here. Because this is where our performances can affect those who don't have that strong opinion. First of all. And two. I would like to respond to my colleague, Mr Šlechtová, whom I also greatly appreciate. She was talking about law school, and that's exactly what I'm making this proposal. Equalizing the rights, but not naming it a marriage. And so far, I've heard about the rights. About how if the other one dies, so that it doesn't just go through the trial, and so on and so forth. And the rights... Then I'll get to it in my own speech. But let's talk about settling the rights. But at the same time, you're talking about marriage, the concept of marriage. And I think there's a whole other discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u77	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík, with a factual remark. Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think it's absolutely crucial. You know, EET can be canceled, modified. Tax rates can be cancelled, adjusted. We can do this every year depending on the situation. This is a civilization issue. An issue that really turns our company into hundreds of years. The perception of our society. It's just that. And I'm glad that my club has a perfectly uniform opinion, and I dare say for all my colleagues, even if there are only ten of us, that we don't hold a line, because someone just told us. That's just our conviction. It's the belief of Christian Democrats. And I'm here to say that I'm going to vote against the same-sex marriage. Not because I'm in KDU-ČSL. I'm in KDU-ČSL right now because I have such an opinion because if I had it different, I might consider joining another party. And that's pretty important. And a little lightening. It is interesting that there is, in some way, a response from the ANO movement to Members from other parties. And, like, they don't really discuss each other much anymore, except for Mr. Juchelka. Here you can just see that the YES movement, for example. YES and many other parties do not have the value anchoring, and it is from Sumava to Tatras. So really Mr. Juchelka is right. [[Resurrection in the hall, entertainment.]] Resp. Mr Nacher, that there are a third of the undecided. And I hope he leans on the right side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u79	Thank you. Real comment by Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. Mrs Karla Šlechtová will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u80	Hello. I just want to do one little thing that I couldn't respond to when I was chairing. So through you, Mr President. I would like to respond to some of the biological inaccuracies that have been raised here. A new individual does not arise in nature merely by combining two sex cells. There is also sexual reproduction. It occurs not only in plants, but also in insects and some vertebrates. For example, reptiles, amphibians, exceptionally birds. However, I would like to use the remaining time to make more comments. I'm one of those who doesn't have a strong opinion. However, we are not really talking about nature and how things are defined somewhere in nature, but we are talking about how we set it up in our society. What we consider to be right, virtually. what rights or obligations are to be created for people. [[18.00 hours]] I consider marriage and registered partnership to be a social contract primarily before my surroundings and a declaration to the state that provides some common master of how rights between individuals are to be levelled. I consider it a matter primarily private, to which the state issues a pattern, and I think that this pattern should be accessible to everyone, not just to those who are heterosexual. I'm even such a radical that I think even registered partnerships should be accessible to heterosexuals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u81	Thank you. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to keep our speeches down at 18.00 so that we can continue to discuss this point. With factual remarks, I have three Members. The first is Mrs. Karla Šlechtová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, I would just like to respond to Mr Nacher and Mr Juchelka. Yes, the YES movement doesn't have a clear view, everyone has one. We are the democratic movement, as President Babiš says, so let everyone think what they want. Let's see who votes. Just a note. I suppose all intelligent people sitting in this room watching the screens and people upstairs or whoever understands how I thought when I said a baby would show up. If you two gentlemen want to train through the President, please contact me or the gay community. [[Big upheaval in the hall, laughter and applause.]] Let me explain -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u83	Through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u84	I'll explain how a kid really gets into a gay couple. It could be from the first marriage, because even heterosexuals suddenly become gay. That's why I said, "Which one of you has this really sexual experience with someone of the same sexuality." It doesn't really matter, and I think you reacted completely unracionally. So I would ask that we return to the substantive debate, as Mr Výborný and Mrs Maxová said, and I will be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u85	Thank you. I'll wait until the O.R.'s quiet, especially on the right. Thank you. Mrs Radka Maxová will continue, Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u86	Thank you, Mr President. She took the wind from my sails a little bit, colleague Šlechtová. I also wanted to explain how the baby suddenly appeared. It doesn't show up, it's planned to be adoption, let it be natural, etc., so it doesn't happen, but that's the way it is. To Patrik Nacher through you. Perfect legal settlement, but we'll still have two groups of residents and two I.D.s where the name will be given, married, married... If there's a universal name that hasn't been found yet, we'll see. But definitely in the form of equalizing the rights and leaving two groups of people marked with a citizen's license, I don't think it's acceptable for our advanced society. I would like, through Mr President, to disagree with my colleague Benešík, although I love him very much that if we accept our amendment, this amendment will change our society for hundreds of years. It won't, we'll just straighten out the rights for adults and children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u87	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Aleš Juchelka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the factual remark made by Mrs Procházková through Mr President. Of course, the same sex couples can adopt children today, but in the case of marriage it will be formally much easier, and it will be easier for officials to decide whether the child will grow up with either two women or two men. And who's gonna ask that kid if that's what he wants? On the contrary, it should be our duty to protect the traditional family and, on the contrary, we should take measures to ensure that its role in society is strengthened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u89	Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Patrik Nacher and Mrs Radka Maxová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u90	Good evening again. Just a short visit to Mrs. Šlechtová. I'm glad that we explained that you really understood it, because I wasn't really sure about your first explanation, when you suggested that we all try to experiment with different things, so I just didn't know, so I'm glad that you know that the baby just comes from semen and eggs, and I totally understand how it appears with homoparent couples, I understand exactly, I understand, and I don't need to be explained by the Chair of the Social Policy Committee, Maxová. I totally understand, and thank you so much for the lighting, and I'm glad you understand it, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u91	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u92	Have a good night again. I wanted to say two things and in the meantime I have successfully forgotten one. However, I must respond to my colleague Karla Šlechtová through Mr President. As much as I would be curious about the course that the Member would have shown us through Mr President, in this case, I must warn her to listen better to what she has to say about the microphone. I didn't ask her to do it, and I didn't tell her the kids weren't showing up. That's what my colleague Aleš Juchelka said. I was talking about something else. That means to send us both on a course, it's a better place to look at your cell phone and listen to what your colleagues say and then respond to them exactly. Then it looks like I said something else here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u93	Thank you. Mrs Radka Maxová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u94	Thank you, Mr President. By your help, Mrs. Maříková. I'm just gonna set the record straight. The child is represented by a social worker from the Department of Child Welfare, so it speaks for the child, on this basis he talks to the child whether he wants to be adopted or if he wants to be divorced at his father's, his mother's, his grandmother's, his grandfather's. There's always a social worker there, and there's always a child dragged into the process, but his age is crucial, and there's a lot of emphasis on what he wants and when he's not married. And the adoption of the registered partners of that biological parent never goes without the consent of the other biological parent. It's just well treated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u95	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, Mr Mikuláš Peksa will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u96	Thank you for the floor. We already have an hour of sexual education through my colleague, Mrs Šlechtová, and I appreciate it, in some way in a row, so I'm not going to explain the three ways in which the child can appear in pairs of the same sex, but - and I would put it back, because the question of children and arguments through those children is very serious. I don't think it's really a matter of light debate. In either case, the child in the same sex marriage or in a registered partnership is not the fruit of the two people's love for one another. We just know that's not biologically possible. Yes? In that case, we are getting into very controversial questions both ethical and ultimately we have to ask ourselves what is more. The right of the couple to have a child, or the right of the child itself. I think that's the question we're facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u97	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Peksa, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u98	Thank you. I'd just like to correct one of those ideas that goes a little bit through this debate. We pretend that basically the condition of this marriage is the ability to produce children. Sadly, unfortunately, there are a number of heterosexual couples who do not have that option for health reasons. It doesn't prevent them from marrying, the law allows them to. On the contrary, it is legal and legitimate to use, say, medical techniques to actually have the opportunity to have children or to produce children. [[18.10 hours]] At the same time, I would like to point out that experiments are currently underway that allow mammal cubs to be born by combining two eggs. This is happening, although this technology is not yet in the state that it could be used to reproduce childless human couples, but in principle it is possible. So I wouldn't dare say that it's completely contrary to biology, and there's no such thing happening anywhere, because it's just not true at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u99	Thank you. We are returning to the general debate, with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to perform again because I think I've said everything, but I've noticed some strange unbalanced arguments here. On the one hand, Mrs Maxová here is saying the views of psychologists who support the adoption of children, and she has left out completely purposefully the views of psychologists who, on the other hand, do not support the adoption of children. So I'd be quoting three right now. And I'm saying they're quotes from the psychologists so no one can push me. First, psychologist PhDr Mgr Jeroným Klimeš, PHD. He says - quote: "The homosexuals are significantly unhomogeneous, largely closed minority. While some really achieve the full psychic and social well-being, it is generally true that homosexuals have a much higher rate of abuse and abuse in their past than other populations," I am, of course, sorry. However, the psychologist continues: "The abuse and abuse of childhood, of course, is more likely to repeat these patterns in their lives with potential children. Unfortunately, there is also a greater likelihood of accompanying sexual perverts." End of quote. Next, President of the Czech Moravian Psychological Society Jaroslav Šturma, I quote - I quote: "Psychotherapy practice clearly shows that individuals who were not raised in a stable and loving environment made up of father and mother are more at risk of psychological problems in shaping their own personal identity than those who grew up in an environment structured differently." End of quote. Another quote, František Schneiberg, Chairman of the Society of Social Paediatrics of the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně - I quote: "Is any family better than the constitution? If that were the case, children would not have to be taken from their families and different facilities would not exist for them. If the Minister wanted to adopt children," it was during the last parliamentary term, "she wanted to adopt children to homosexual couples, she should be aware of these very contexts. Children are placed in a family failure facility, they come from families unstable, incomplete or completely broken. But are homosexual couples more stable? Not in the experience so far." End of quote. So just to be balanced, so that every MP can get a picture. I was in the lobby, and I heard someone talking about how it would be good to adopt children from children's homes or those who don't have parents. Well, I don't know what 200 Members are like between us, but I may be the only Member who grew up part of his childhood in a foster home. The children's home is still there today, it is in Masťov u Podbořan in Ústí Region. They beat me up, bullied me, it was my 13th chamber back then. They also found my governess who's retired today. And, folks, when I was that little kid with no way of defending myself and expressing myself, and someone would adopt me without my consent, and they would determine my future, like some foster kid, and I would, after coming to my senses - so I was there when I was older, I was six years old, but imagine maybe two years, three years younger child, and then they would find out that he actually has the same sexual parents, maybe it would suit him, but maybe it wouldn't. All of a sudden, she'd find out she wanted mommy and daddy. So imagine the situation. I say for myself that if I was to be adopted, I would want my mommy and daddy, but if I were a little infant or a little child, who would ask me, and then how could I resist the consequences? No one could answer that, dear friends. So I would like to - I was in that situation, I was the little boy in the children's home in the room for 15 children, the children's home is still there today, and I had no way to defend myself against the intervention of adults or my future was determined by other adults. So until he answers this question, this situation that I myself was in, I'm never gonna support it, because I'm gonna tell you that if this little kid finds out that he actually wants to have a mommy and a daddy, and he has the same-sex parents, he can't defend himself anymore, so it's really off the hook. How can he defend himself? That means that's my question, and if this isn't... I really was there when my parents were sick. I didn't know how long I'd be there, whether I'd be there, whether anyone else would take care of me or not. So in this situation, folks, I just can't support it, adopting gay couples until these questions are answered, those feelings that I had as a little kid, and unfortunately they're not answered to this day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u101	Thank you. Mrs Markéta Pekarová, Mrs Procházková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u102	Thank you for the floor. I've been avoiding this debate for a long time, which is probably a whole bunch of us. I want to say my opinion in a proper application, but now I want to respond to a previous speaker who, unfortunately, is not here again, through the President. You know, we didn't choose who we were born to, we couldn't tell if we were born in a suitable, inappropriate environment. These are things that no child actually chooses. I think that's what the rules are clearly laid down here in the case of adoptions, the procedures that are about to prevent a child from being entrusted to an inappropriate environment. And I think that it's always so much better for that child to grow up in a loving environment, among the people who want it, and the people who want to adopt a child, of course, just by wanting to adopt a child, so most of the time, they're probably the ones who are very interested in taking good care of it. But, of course, if that were not the case, there are clear rules and we know how to proceed or how to proceed, and it is the case with heterosexual couples, not only if they are the same sex couples. So I think that in this case it is much better that the child does not grow up in an institution where they take care of them, albeit with all good will often very well, people who take turns with him, where a whole range of those caring people simply are, that it is much better for the child to grow up in a stable loving environment. And we have clear rules to prevent any mistakes or to correct them if they occur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u103	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Procházková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u104	Thanks again for the word. My point in fact is to my predecessor, Mr Okamur, who mentioned here the words of doktor Klimeš, who dealt with religious pastoral psychology, that homosexuals often repeat inappropriate patterns. Unfortunately, child abuse, selling children to abuse in heterosexual couples is no exception at all. Unfortunately, as a doctor, I find that children live in families that are not really suitable for the children. And I think the kids, just like he said here, oh, my God, how can these kids defend themselves in this family? It's the same thing. So it's not about whether it's a heterosexual or a homosexual couple. It just creates the environment, the child is in the environment, and if the state doesn't make sure that the family is good enough to have good conditions, then it's just about something completely different from what we've been talking about from the start, and that's the right of homosexuals, the same right as a heterosexual couple. It's all there is to it. Let's go back to the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u105	Thank you, Madame. And we are going back to the general debate, Mrs Zuzana Majerová speaking. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u106	Thank you. Have a good evening, colleagues and colleagues. President Lincoln once said that even if you call the dog's tail feet, the dog will still be only four legs. And that's the tail this whole day, for me, is absurd, a discussion about marriage. We've heard a thousand times that marriage is a union between a man and a woman, and I'm doing it here today and now I'm repeating it for the first time. Marriage is a union between a man and a woman, because the word "marriage" comes from words of a man and a woman. The purpose of marriage is to establish a family and breed offspring. It doesn't change the fact that some marriages remain childless, that half of the marriage is divorced, that the family is far from idyllic. It is our duty to protect, strengthen, prevent decay, and not help her further demolition. Taxpayers really don't pay us for that. Our pointless discussion of marriage is mostly similar to the stupid discussion of the Marxists about the disruption of private business. Sure, companies fail, they don't always have to make money. Business is not a walk in the park. But that doesn't change the fact that private business always works better than nationalized economies. Our countries were built and developed on Christian foundations, on Christian culture, education, and morality. Unlike other cultures and civilizations, we are distinguished by respect for the woman and family that we place first in society. Unlike other cultures and civilizations, we have one man and one woman for a sacred marriage, for such a union has proved best for raising children, for preserving the dignity of man, morality, loyalty and love. If we legalize the possibility of marrying people of the same sex, we will injure and betray our own cultural roots. If you do not believe in the sanctity of marriage and if you want to carve the natural course of things as you wish. I understand that some people are very well fed by these fantasies and thought-shows. Say what you want, write what you want and where you want. Meet at conferences, discuss, do no harm and no harm. But I'm asking you for one thing. Don't try to force your fantasies from the annual news into our lives. But most importantly, don't confuse the children and don't play the gods. When this House voted on a registered partnership in the past, many of my colleagues warned that this was the first step towards a full marriage of same-sex persons. And the activists were offended at the time by the haunting. We had our finger taken, and they're tearing our whole hand out today. And I'm like, "What's next?" Marriage to children, polygamy? Please note that the proposal that lies here on the table is not just a wish for homosexuals. I have many good friends among homosexuals, and none of them asked me to support it. It is the wish of ideologists and was created on order of activists, pressure groups who hate everything natural, traditional and normal and who use homosexuals for their purposes at the moment and only use them. We're all equal before the law, yes. That doesn't mean that each of us has the same demands and the same possibilities. Maybe my 12-year-old son isn't really getting a drink at the pub. The Czech Social Security Administration does not pay me an old-age pension, just as a blind person cannot drive a transport plane. And two women or two men cannot be married, for marriage is simply not for everyone. Let us stop insulting the citizens of the Czech Republic by constantly dividing them into homosexuals and heterosexuals. Let us stop discriminated against them by this distinction, and let us finally do something for them. Speaking about what is and is not a marriage is easier than addressing the pension system, the security of our country, or the ever-increasing public debt. But we're not really sitting here for rhetorical exercises. We were sent here to solve our country's problems, not to create new problems. Those of you who intend to vote in favour of this proposal may think that you will please someone. And, yes, I think you're gonna make it for someone. But with your voice, you will launch an avalanche that threatens the most precious thing in our society and civilization - marriage, family and children. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we end this point and start doing something more useful for all of us. And I hereby make my motion to dismiss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u107	Thank you. I have four factual points here. The first is Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Ivan Bartoš will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u108	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I just really wanted to point out one little thing. Here, two things are constantly confused - marriage and family. Even homosexuals have families, and even those gay families should have our respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u109	Member Ivan Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u110	I would just like to respond quickly to the previous speaker through Mr President. It seemed like a confession to me, but there was a lot of us. And maybe it was me because I didn't find myself in it. I am Čech, Evropan, I am a believer, I am a baptised Hussite, I studied Hussite theology, I am married in church - November 17, it will be three years - with a perfect partner, I live in a happy marriage and I try to live according to desatero. And I would really like all my fellow citizens to have the opportunity to be in this marriage as much as I do, regardless - and I stress that I am a believer - regardless of whether they are couples of the same sex or of the opposite sex. And that's denied. Here I see the equality for which as a Christian - and among us are the pirate party and the Protestants, the Catholics who support this proposal. Please, faith is an internal matter. I'm sorry I have to say this here. It's a human relationship with God. But let's not apply it to a society that is secular, where our law simply applies, our laws. I'm not trying to dictate to anyone how to live, and I want us to always approach each other as equals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u111	With a factual remark from Mr Radek Holomčík, Mrs Radka Maxová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u112	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the ethymological argument of the origin of the word marriage repeats. I just got a message from an ethymologically educated person. I'm gonna skip the invectives, and I'm gonna get to the point. The original word "masculinity " in ancient Czech came from a Slavic woman and a Germanic mal - covenant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u113	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Holík, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Bartoš through the President. I very much appreciate that he lives Christianly, that he honors the desatero Commandments. But the ninth point in the Desater is "you will not ask your neighbor's wife." So we should adjust it to "you will not ask your wife or your neighbor's husband."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u115	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr. Jan Bauer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u116	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. In human history, marriage had different forms and content, there were different inequalities between partners, there were somewhere, and there is still polygamy, much more rare is polygamy, but so far, in the distant history of human civilization, the status of marriage has never been granted to two persons of the same sex. Nor did the ancient Řek, who considered homosexuality to be a virtue, ever consider the union of same-sex persons to equalize marriage, because the essence of marriage is a union of various, i.e. men and women, into a functional and completely unique whole that is capable of reproduction. Marriage as a revered institution exists throughout the centuries, cultures and religions. There's a good reason. The basic unit of each society to survive long-term ambition is family. If we weaken family cohesion, we will logically weaken society as well. And the main symbol of family cohesion and functionality is the institution of marriage. If we agree today that the union of two people of the same sexual orientation, the union of two people who are unable to produce a child together, is marriage, we will send a signal to society that the traditional values and symbols on which our society stands are unfortunately losing their meaning. This may seem irrelevant in times of good, but it will come back to us in times of evil. There is no way to leave children out of this debate about marriage, because it is primarily about them. It is because of them that marriage as a social institution, a privileged institution, was created. Not for partners' relationships. Not to confirm their love for one another, but for children whose birth and upbringing have always been the main purpose of marriage. And children need a father and a mother, they need their care, they need to know their roles, they need and should live with their parents until they are adults, so it is desirable that their parents live together as adults. The proposal we are discussing is primarily about children. If the previously failed to allow registered partners to adopt children, if this idea was thrown out the door, and I remember it well, it comes back through the window. If we declare registered partners married, if we degrade marriage to a relationship of any two people, then logically these now registered partners, the next spouses, will also be able to adopt children. From people on the initiative We are fair and other activists often hear the argument - there are plenty of children in children's homes that nobody wants, so why not let homosexual couples adopt them. Unfortunately, this argument is not fair at all and I will try to tell you why. First, because children in children's homes usually have biological parents somewhere, and they cannot therefore be adopted. You'd have to get rid of their parents' parental rights first. For children who have lost their biological parents in a car accident, adoption is also problematic. Why should these children be damned and erased from their personal history? These children need foster parents, and it has already been said here today. And we don't get permanent foster parents. Although only spouses may be joint foster parents, the law does not prevent individual foster parents or LGBT persons. And unfortunately, for some reason, they're not doing it to a large extent yet. Secondly, and it follows from what I have just said, it is clear that most of the same sex couples are interested in children who are at least a little biologically theirs. For lesbian couples, it is a rather simple process, in the case of gays already a little more complicated, through surrogate mothers. A prerequisite for obtaining a child is a statement by which a woman gives up under Section 813 of the Civil Code after the birth of the child. Although this can be done at least six weeks after birth, according to available information, the child is reported to be taken immediately after birth and handed over to the father and his partner. It seems that this is also possible for contemporary Czech health care. At this point, I will not judge whether this is right, ethical and consistent with the interests of the child. Let everyone do this to themselves. I will limit myself to saying that the Czech health service already allows children to be brought into the world who will never know their mother, or their father, or their normally functioning family. Lesbian and gay couples today lack one single - legalizing the status of a partner or partner who is not a biological father and allowing him to claim a child so-called. Why am I saying all this? Because I believe that only and only because, for this purpose, we now have this amendment to the Civil Code on our table. That is why there is so much pressure for registered partners to have the same rights as husbands, and so they can also adopt the child of their partner. And it is precisely with regard to the rights of children that I will in no way support this law and add to the motion for rejection, that is, the rejection of House Press No. 201. In addition to weakening the basic structure of our society, I have one more reason why I will not support it. I am well aware that people of other sexual orientation have never had an easy life, except for some bright exceptions, they have been ostracized, ridiculed and often punished in history. With their orientation, they often had to hide. Their struggle for recognition of dignity was and is understandable and correct. However, we must realise that today we are among the most liberal countries in the world. Czech society accepts people's minority orientation, respects, doesn't scare. People with different sexual orientations run big companies, political parties and are part of society without anyone stopping over their different orientations. The so-called coming out doesn't shock or threaten anyone today. Why, too. And public debate is not about bans or restrictions, but about whether the state should actively support, accelerate or meet certain trends. But all of this can easily change and turn to rejection and resentment. I personally note that it is more and more of the demands of various minority activists that are causing growing aversions. The adoption of a law that would allow homosexuals to adopt children and their obligations to call marriages, for many of us sacred, would mean exceeding the limit by which these people of society can once again be seen as enemies. By supporting this law, I would contribute to such developments, and I will not do so in any way. Completely to the end. Every man has his dignity and equal rights. But equality doesn't mean the same thing. And if activists from different minorities want, on the one hand, recognition and respect for their differences, they cannot at the same time want society to deny the natural consequences of this difference by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u117	Thank you. There is one factual remark from Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u118	Thank you. I still wanted to respond to a fellow pirate party through Mr President, that is the history of the concept of marriage. I also have some other interpretation of etymologist who says that it is an anagram of words, exchange l - n words of marriage, by the way in Polish it is until today, painted meant the dual shape of a man and a woman together. Just to make it sound like it's here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u119	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr Radek Rozvoral, Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, our SPD movement, as has already been said here by President Okamura, will take a favourable position on the proposal for a constitutional law to amend resolution No. 2/1993 Coll., Bureau of the Czech National Council, on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as part of the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, as amended. The SPD movement agrees with the proposal and believes that we must preserve the values of the traditional family in our country and for future generations. We are in favour of maintaining the current legal definition of marriage as a legal and social institution that forms a legislative basis for families, and it is concluded between men and women who know each other's health. Marriage is therefore a voluntary, basically permanent cohabitation of two persons of different sexes, which is established in a legal way, namely by marriage. Its main purpose is according to the law of the establishment of the family, proper education of children in the natural family and in natural values, i.e. biological and educational functions and mutual assistance and support. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy is a political movement that promotes fundamental constitutional and legislative changes aimed at defending freedom and democracy in the Czech Republic. As the name of our movement implies, we support that each citizen can express his or her opinion without subsequent sanctions, and therefore we have nothing against the sexual orientation of each and every one of us. For this reason we are e.g. They respected the Prague Pride festival with gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender theme, which took place in Prague on the second week of August and whose topic this year was family. The organizers of this event aimed at informing as many citizens as possible that homosexuals should have the same marital rights and obligations as a traditional family, including the right to have children. All members of our SPD movement do not take this view away from them and respect it. At the same time, however, we say that we will only support traditional families, who are the only ones who can preserve the population, and thus traditions, customs, and nation itself. Working-class traditional families who properly raise children are the basis for our state and guarantee that our citizens will have a good life here in the future. The proposed proposal will therefore support our SPD movement, as we see in it an instrument that strengthens and strengthens the marriage of a man and a woman who should be protected by the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u121	Thank you. Next in line with Mrs Karla Maříková, Mrs Jarošová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a time when we are being asked to look at ourselves in a multicultural and gender-correct way. Thirty years after the Velvet Revolution, it is once again necessary not to say out loud what one thinks and publicly declare what is being worn. Prim plays various demagogies, manipulations and threats. But you can't conjure nature by law. The concept of marriage has a certain value that has a tradition, and it does not deny anyone's right to any relationship. The goal of marriage is to build a harmonious whole and own a home in which a new life will be created. Adult people have the right to live in relationships that they choose. However, it is important for children to see both male, paternal, and female, maternal role models in their families. They can hardly see that with the same sex couples and their families. The state will decide whether the child will grow up with two women or two men. However, it is our duty to protect the traditional family and, on the contrary, to take measures that would strengthen its role in society and obtain maximum support from the State. Years ago, when a registered partnership was approved, no one expected it to become the norm. And let's see what we're facing today. And what's next? Will marriage be like a union of three or five people in a few years? Infidelity was previously unthinkable, too. Divorce almost the biggest crime. But is there anyone else wondering today that people are unfaithful to each other? Is there anyone among us who doesn't know at least one couple who's been hit by infidelity? Our open society in the fight for equality with everyone is doing everything it can to make it extinct. As part of the gender revolution, there is a hard fight against gender stereotypes. Motherhood is a gender stereotype. Since kindergartens, it is gradually forbidden to present a woman as a mother as part of school education. It is also recommended that families raise children gender-neutral so that they can choose freely not only their profession but also their gender and sexual orientation in the future. Social principles and formulas are referred to as stereotypical and therefore have to be removed or replaced by new models. These ideologies destroy values such as nation, family, patriotism, morality, and natural sexuality. As a result of dysfunctional relationships between partners, husbands, parents and children. Only the blind cannot see how customs and traditions are gradually eradicated. Everyone has the right to fight for their rights, but future developments are obvious. The more everyone is equal to everyone, the sooner our culture will end and be replaced by cultures of other - African and Islamic, which certainly do not respect women's and homosexual rights as our current culture does. We should learn from history, since historical experience illustrates that once the Roman Empire has abandoned its basic moral principles and social values, it has been destroyed. Today's European institutions almost identically copy the deterrent model of the Roman Empire. It is important to learn from history and not repeat the same mistakes our ancestors made. Let's not try to be smarter than nature. Our laws cannot change the laws of nature. If we want to survive as a nation, we must survive the fundamental values and moral principles of our society, whose essential foundation is a heterosexual family, since only a man and a woman can produce children. We live like the living Říman just before their empire fell apart. If we disrupt or destroy a heterosexual marriage, one man and one woman's marriage, the entire nation will be destroyed. And we should all be aware of that today and here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u123	Thank you. Mrs Jarošová is also enrolled in the general debate, and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u124	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are to decide together whether to allow identical sex couples to marry. Marriage is a union between a man and a woman who has a privileged position because only a man and a woman can produce children together. And these children are subject to protection by law. That is why I wish that marriage be enshrined in the Constitution as a union between a man and a woman. Only such a union is able to preserve the survival of the nation, for only from it can other children be born. In my opinion, a harmonious marriage between a man and a woman is the best contribution to a child's life. Children who grow up in a stable harmonic union of men and women are generally more balanced, better integrated in the team of classmates and also more resistant to negative risk factors, e.g. abuse of addictive substances. Did anyone ask how a group of children would treat an individual who would be raised by two daddies or two moms? A children's collective can be cruel, I guess I don't have to elaborate on that at all. That is why today, when so many marriages fall apart, the traditional family deserves support and special privileged protection, as this too can contribute to the reduction of social negative phenomena. Lobbists who promote marriages to same-sex couples have long sought to destroy the basic cell of society that was and is a family. Years ago, when these circles fought for the legalization of a registered partnership, they claimed that they were not concerned with adoptions, but only about access to information concerning their partner. Today we see that we have been lied to. Registration was just the first step. Another is to be the position of the union of the same sex couples on the same level as traditional marriages and the possible adoption of children. And I'm asking when the demands of this lobby stop. Where, then, is the protection of the child's right to a normal family? Who will be responsible for this? I will tell you - anyone who enforces this law and approves it. I am a mother myself, and I am worried about the future of my child and the future of his children and the entire nation, if the traditional formats of the human race are questioned. It's nonsense to think that we are boh and to go against the laws of nature. [[18.50 hours]] I wish that once my grandchildren could live in a traditional family, where for many thousands of years there is no other sex, including a father, mother, and children who are a girl or a boy. It's a model that we grew up in. And it was never questioned whether a father or a mother may call his son a son and a daughter a daughter. After all, it was an experienced and proven rule that helped each and every one of us to focus on growing up so that we could be a good father or mother someday. On the one hand, we are weeping over unsatisfactory demographic developments here, but we cannot raise young people to healthy sexuality, to start families, to parenthood, to raise children, to what is natural, to what is consistent with the laws of nature that lead to the preservation of family and nation, to what simply has a future, and on the other hand, we are wasting our time promoting homosexuality, even though these volumes, in my opinion, have sufficient protection. And to make matters worse, we are already trying to raise our schoolchildren to the fact that two daddies or two moms are perfectly normal. How far are we going to let this go? In a few years' time, isn't there another lobby to deal with legalization of marriages with minors, as is the case with neighbouring Germany in the context of Islamic migration? I never in my life would have thought that one day our society would have such an absurd debate about such obvious natural laws. It may seem old-fashioned to some, but let's remember that it's as old-fashioned as the fact that babies are born of a woman and are conceived by a man. And in that case, I find old-fashioned very intriguing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u125	With a factual remark, Mr Bžoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u126	Good evening. Mr President, fellow Members, I will not comment on marriage as such, but I would like to comment on what has been said here several times, twice by colleagues from the SPD, how evil the children's team is and how the children will carry it away and everything. Yes, the children's team is evil. Yes, that's correct. And who's to blame? We are, because we're raising these kids! So if we don't raise tolerant children and raise evil children, obscene, and ever since the beginning of the birth, we've been pushing them, whether it's xenophobia, racism, or whatever it is, those kids will be, and that's what the collective will be. [[In an elevated voice.]] Yes, but it's our fault, it's our parents' fault! Maybe I want my kids to be tolerant. It doesn't matter what! But this is about us! It's up to us to raise the company! The company's bad today. Yes, it is. But it's our fault!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u127	This factual point raised three further factual points. [[Cheer up in the left side of the hall.]] The first is Mr. Vít Rakušan. I would ask the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm in the hall, because the agreement is that we will negotiate today within 19 hours and then we will vote off the remaining points from the agenda of the meeting, so I will just ask for peace and vigilance. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for the floor. I have sworn to wait for a proper discussion that will give me the opportunity to say what I really think. And now I am really just going to say something really seriously about the SPD colleague through Mr President. Please, let us not use historical facts in our debates written on paper, probably prepared from our assistants or assistants when we do not know history! [[Very high voice.]] Please, let's not do this. It's insulting to those who know history. The collapse of the Roman Empire began when the Huns Hun Europe in the middle of the 4th century C.E., the Germanic tribes that invaded the Roman Empire shifted, and that was simply the end of the Roman Empire in 476 C.E. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] I would like to say that since 313, Milan's edict, which built Christianity on a level with other religions, has banned persecution of Christians and, in 380, the official religion was declared to be Emperor Gracián in the Western Roman Empire. Let's not use pseudoscientific arguments that we don't understand ourselves and somebody wrote them to us. [[Still a very high voice.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u129	With a factual remark, Mr Václav Klaus. Mr Marek the Výborný will be prepared. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that this debate is very emotional at the moment. I'm gonna ask you to keep it down and keep it down. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u130	I wanted to respond with such a story to Mr Bžoch and Mr Rakušan, fortunately, Mr Kalousek is not here to use it on me somehow, namely his step-grandfather. He didn't exactly understand the principle of the phone call, and the longer the distance he called, the more the speaker screamed into it. [[Glee in the hall.]] So I would like to ask Mr Bžoch and Mr Rakušan that this is true, too, that the more we yell at this instrument, the stronger the argument is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u131	Thank you. Mr. Marek Výborný. President Ivan Bartoš will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I may repeat myself, but I wanted to join what my colleague Vít Rakušan said. Therefore, this does not apply only to the discussion of this House's press. Indeed, there are sometimes things from the history of Czech, Czechoslovak or world-class things that really do not correspond to reality. Let's keep it simple, and let's say what we've actually verified, because then we're confusing us not only here, but also the public, because we're just being watched by the public. That's one thing. Second thing. And I will also give the truth to my colleague, Mr Bžoch, through you, Mr Vice-President. Really, for the way our children behave, and now no matter who and to what, it is only us who are responsible. And the values of freedom, democracy and tolerance, respect, even respect for other things, are based on what patterns we pass on to them, which doesn't mean what relationship we have or how we think about values, even the value of marriage. But, as I said at the beginning, it doesn't hurt that we have respect and respect for any kind of relationship, partnership and the like, and that every person has dignity and that dignity is worthy of respect. And to do that, we need to raise our children. And that's everyone's responsibility as we sit here, regardless of whether I'm gay, gay or straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u133	Thank you. President Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u134	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I just have to say, I still have a moment to say that from the way the arguments go, I can see that the debate is coming to an end. Now, through Mr President to Mr Rakušan. Every time we run out of arguments, colleagues start telling us what to think, what to write, what to say, what not to say here. And we're just gonna say what we think is right here. So even if you stand on your head, here we say what we want the House to hear, what we want to say here. Even through President Karel, you can see and you thought that you would not make any technical comment. [[To Mrs. Karla Maríková.]] Well, at least we had a little history field trip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u135	Thank you. The esteemed colleague, my fellow Members, is 18.58. Since there's not much time left until 7:00 p.m., I have Mr. Bartošek reporting to me with a point of fact, so I will, of course, give him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u136	Thank you. A colleague of mine, Fial. Say what you want here. You have every right. You even have the immunity idol. You can be vulgar here too, you can make up stories here. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I generalize it, I don't mean you specifically. Yes, use this space as you like. But please learn history, learn facts, don't question things that are reality, they're resourced. Because it's either that you're having a legitimate discussion that you're backed up by real facts, or you're telling fairy tales here. And that needs to be distinguished from each other. [[19.00 hours]] Fair discussion is conducted on the basis of facts that exist, or you distort things, you create fake news. Your advantage, unlike the others, is that you can afford it here because you have the right. But please don't give up lies and manipulations for facts we're supposed to rely on, which are real, because it's not true. That's the only thing I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u137	Ambassador, it's 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u138	Yes. I ask you to be fair in this respect. Facts are facts. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-017-901.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out to Mr Bartošek that vulgarities are not to be said here and cannot be said in this Chamber. Since it is 19 o'clock and it is agreed that we will conclude today's meeting, we must vote off the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 20th session of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll put this to a vote. I'll check you out. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 243, registered 123, for 91, against 21. The motion was accepted. We have discussed the agenda for the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with. And please note that we'll meet tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when an emergency meeting was called. Thank you.
