ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Sb., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 47/ - second reading This proposal was dealt with on Tuesday, 27 February. The item was interrupted after the start of the general debate until the end of the legal period from the issue of the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee by the House press 47/3. The deadline was met on 28. 2nd at 3:38 p.m. Please - yes, we can already see - that the seats at the rapporteur's table are taken up by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jan Volný. I would like to ask whether the representatives of the next committee are also interested in speaking, is this the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Member Výborný? [[Yes.]] You're interested in getting off. Anyway, I'm here now with a priority... We will therefore continue the interrupted general debate. If you don't mind, I have Mr Kalousek's request here with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I, the science that I will be called upon to continue the adjourned debate, so I did not take a factual comment on Mr Bartošek. Now I'm gonna use my act to answer him first. In my opinion, he has rightly sighed here that agreements are not respected even at the moment when there are two comparable proposals, both of which are municipal policies. After all, my colleague, through Mr President, they taught us at school: 'quod lick Iovi non licket bovi. You didn't get around much, just like that. And now, let me comment on the proposed amendment to the tax code, which I apologize for, I cannot take completely impersonally, because over the years when I was the Minister of Finance, the only really fundamental code that has been passed has been the tax code. The tax line, which before going through the legislative process, went through a two-year intensive expert discussion conducted by then federal finance minister Klak. And we were honored to have people in that group from the administrative court, whether it be Dr. Baxa, the people from the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the Bar Association. It was really an excellent expert group, which took place after two years of work on the tax system, which is effective from 1. 1. 2011. And with each of his amendments, of course, I look carefully at whether there are any general principles with which this code was drawn up. The amendment that we have before us is a simple implementation of the European directive, which is aimed at money laundering and combating terrorism. If that were true, I am convinced that we can approve this in a reduced procedure, and none of us would even want to discuss it. Unfortunately, it's not true. In fact, I dare say that the purpose of this proposal is to take advantage of the European DAC 5 Directive in order for the Financial Administration to be empowered to do things that we have never imagined. Things that break the taboo so far and make it more powerful and more sovereign in a certain aspect than the law enforcement authorities, which I strongly object to. Because we don't have the tax authorities to subpoena the law enforcement authorities. That is why we have the division of power, the division of competences and the separation of information from individual institutions, which protect not only the proper service performance of the state administration, but also protects a free citizen. Directive DAC 5 requires Member States, for the purposes of international tax cooperation, to provide tax authorities with legal access to the mechanisms, procedures, documents, information referred to in the relevant Articles of Directive of the European Parliament. It is the so-called AML Directive that regulates measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing. It is intended for this purpose. Not for tax collection. For this purpose. However, the government is designing its proposal so that the tax authorities can also require these data and documents for the purposes of domestic tax administration through a procedural regulation which understands tax and tax administration widely in such a way that breaking the obligation of confidentiality in special professions such as banks, lawyers, notaries, in our view, harms the right to a fair legal process and harms the clients concerned. What bothers me the most - I believe that here and in the constitutional law committee, those who have heard the bar and notary chambers have heard. But what bothers me most is that outside this DAC 5 directive, it has nothing to do with it. The Government enters into the amendment a requirement for the adaptation of § 57 para. 3 Tax Code, which allows tax administrators very wide access to data forming the subject matter of banking secrecy, without limitation of purpose. That means without the tax administrator having to determine what it's intended for, he'll have the authority to break the bank's secrets. That has nothing to do with the directive. That's really put in there beyond that. And just allow me a few words on what the tax administrator will be entitled to if this proposal is approved. It will be entitled to access other unique identifieres relating to the account without specifying precisely which identifiers it is. Probably all of them. It will have the right to the information of the persons empowered to the account, i.e. the right to access. It will have the right to data on the persons who have entered the funds into the account and the beneficiaries of the payments. It will have the right to data on services for the execution of payment transactions. Each public authority, which is therefore within the meaning of Section 10 (1) (a) of the EEA Agreement, is to be regarded as State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 1 Tax Code is the tax administrator and will be entitled to this information. [[17.20 hours]] Until now, ladies and gentlemen, only the law enforcement authorities are entitled to this information, even under a very clearly defined regime and under the supervision of the prosecutor in the case of preparatory proceedings, or under the supervision of a judge in the case of proceeding. The tax authorities, if we approve this now, will have the legal right to do so without having any control over them, whether a judge or a prosecutor. And it does not just concern the Financial Administration, within the meaning of Section 10 of the Tax Code, it concerns any tax administrator. Mr Rais, through Mr President, do you have a dog? Mr Rais, through Mr President, do you have a dog? [[Repeatedly.]] If you have a dog, you're paying your municipal authority fees. And if your municipal authority wishes, because within the meaning of Section 10 it is the tax administrator, it will be entitled to access your account, to information about the persons who have it, who contribute to it, which they draw from it. And because they also have access to an IP address, they will be able to monitor your movements if they decide to do so, which is only allowed by law enforcement authorities with the consent of the judge. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] This is where the powers of the tax administrator come into being, for the Financial Administration, which no one has ever had, because even the law enforcement authorities had it under the supervision of a supervisory authority. We want to give it to the Financial Administration without any supervision. Such broad authority is extremely dangerous in general, and in the light of the fact that we have been dealing with constant cases of growing suspicion in a number of of of us, how the power of the tax administrator is abused, how he kneels there or onde, how he can only be abused if he gets his hands on such an instrument. [[There's still a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] Next thing you know, it's a data protection issue. Each of us knows that any bank's largest cost item is a data protection item. Indeed, billions of crowns are being interpreted for this. Now these data will be freely accessible to any tax administrator for the purposes of domestic tax administration, not for the purposes required by the DAC 5 Directive. I can't do it anymore, I can't do it. Mr President, you try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u3	I'd like some peace, ladies and gentlemen. Who doesn't speak on the subject of whether he would go into the foyer to discuss. Ambassador, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u4	Thank you. Although they spend billions of crowns a year in the banking sector to protect this data, any tax administrator will have access to it and can dispose of it in its own way. And we all know what data protection looks like in the Financial Administration as well as in other tax administrators, such as regional or municipal authorities. There's no reason for that. The proposal will not stand in the proportionality test. The proportionality test, which should be applied to any standard which runs counter to the protection of human rights and freedoms, should determine whether an appropriate instrument is also laid down for the relevant purpose. Clearly, it is appropriate to apply absolutely exceptional instruments to something as fundamental as the fight against terrorism and money laundering. But it is no longer appropriate to apply these exceptional instruments for other purposes, such as routine tax administration. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In applying provisions restricting fundamental rights and freedoms, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms must be investigated in its substance and in its meaning and such restrictions must not be used for purposes other than those for which it has been established. That's exactly the case. These provisions have been laid down to combat money laundering and to combat terrorism, and if these instruments are to be used freely for the day-to-day administration of taxes, in my view, this does not, in any case, satisfy the proportionality test. It is beyond the brink of Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and, above all, it is extremely dangerous. It's terribly dangerous to see some of the repressive authorities' powers, in this case, the Financial Administration, swelling up and with it. [[There's still noise in the room.]] I really don't think we should put citizens at this risk. It's really not worth it. If this is approved, I am prepared to initiate a constitutional lawsuit because I believe that this runs counter to Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. But I would very much like us to acknowledge together that this is an entirely disproportionate tool for the ordinary administration of taxes and to leave Section 57 of the Tax Code in the original text and not change it according to the petitioner's wishes just because it does not have anything to do with it - here you have written "tax rules - EU" but the amendment of § 57 of the Tax Code has nothing to do with Directive DAC 5. There's not a word about that. That is what the Ministry of Finance has added and will say to the public: that is what the European Union wants us to do. He doesn't want to! That's what the government wants us to do, plus government without trust, government in demise. A government without trust and a government in demise should probably be limited to normal traffic, and we would all approve without blinking an eye the simple implementation of the DAC 5 directive, but none of us who cares about citizens' rights of freedom and privacy can raise our hand for what the Ministry of Finance has put forward and pretends to implement the DAC 5. I very much ask you to address this issue so that each of you will realize what is at risk if the Financial Administration gets this instrument in hand, and you do not put this instrument in her hand. In this respect, two identical amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. I submitted it to the Committee on Budgets, Mr Benda, with whom we cooperated, submitted it to the Constitutional Legal Committee. In both committees, these proposals did not receive a majority. On the constitutional committee, Mrs Válková's amendment was approved, which alleviates the one for the sake of lawyers and notaries. That is why it is an issue that I have not talked about, and I have focused on that section 57 concerning banking secrecy. Of course, it does not address the issue of banking secrecy. Mr Benda and I have agreed that he will bring this up in a detailed debate, so I am not reporting to a detailed debate because I know that the amendment he will put forward addresses the issue that I warn and draw attention to. But I felt obliged to try to turn your attention to it and try to convince you not to do such a thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u5	I thank Mr Kalousek and I have here with priority right a request for the presentation of the rapporteur of the next committee, the constitutionally legal committee, Mr Marek Výborný. So you have an application here as rapporteur, and then you are once again enrolled in the general debate. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee discussed this press in two negotiations, subsequently adopted a resolution on it yesterday, which at this time has already been read into the system, and recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt amendments and additions to the bill in accordance with a read amendment approved by the Constitutional Legislative Committee on Press No. 47. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u7	Thank you for your speech, and so we will now proceed to the general debate that we are continuing, it is an adjourned general debate, so I have here Mr... I have a point of fact here, a request, first Mrs Langšádlová. So please, madam, you have the floor, and then another de facto Member... Excuse me? Priority right to the general debate by Mr Stanjura. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, once more. Madam Secretary, I have a big request for you, and I have it for all of your colleagues. And I have to say, it has nothing to do with this government. We are witnessing again, and I apologize, I will not comment on the content and I agree with what the President of our club has said here, but we are repeatedly witnessing that we are being presented here with a material called Implementation of the European Directive, and when we look inside it, it is quite clear that part of the material is implementation and part of it is additional. And this happens very often in the Czech legislative process. Repeatedly, even regularly. I could name a few more laws where it's in the originals again today and where it was in the past. And then there's the story of what the European Union is doing to us and what it wants us to do. I have such a big request and I would like to reach a broader agreement, because I think it is not a question of whether someone is in the coalition or in opposition, whether it would be possible for the presentation of the law to at least indicate which part of the proposal is indeed a transposition of European law and which part of the proposal is the extra, which may be. I understand you won't open the same law twice in a row. I understand, but please, then let's not call it a transposition. And too much please allow us, Members, to at least know which part of this proposal is the transposition and which part is the extra draft of the individual ministry. I'd really appreciate it if we had this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u9	I, too, thank you for the precise respect of the time, and so I have now signed up with Mr Stanjur's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u10	Thank you for the floor. This is how we see the usual attempt of Czech officials, ministers or ministers to translate something of theirs. Make it better, smuggle it in, put us under pressure by having a date for transposition, and if we don't do it, we'll be in danger of starting a trial, infringement, I don't know what all this is. But before we get to the next one, in my opinion, a pointless proposal to further strengthen the powers of the Financial Administration, we could lose a few sentences about how the Financial Administration is using the existing powers. I don't think we're supposed to think about giving them any new ones without it. And here the Financial Administration is failing completely. I read last week - 100,000 EET checks. I don't know if it's good news or bad news. But that's the simple thing to do. Go to the smallest ones, check the bills for eight crowns, or give fines or close the premises. I don't want to go back to discussing EET, I just don't think it's effective. I wonder, Madam Secretary, how many people go to these checks. I suppose they're coming on Saturdays and Sundays, 360 days, 100,000 checks a year - no, it was about 96,000. But the celebratory report, the press, the Ministry of Finance: a hundred thousand checks, we got 55 million crowns! I wonder how many people went there. But that's the little problem. A much bigger problem is the things that have been discussed repeatedly for months on the budget committee and on the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Locking orders. Does that mean anything to you, Madam Secretary? I think so, that was a rhetorical question. I'm talking about losing lawsuits, the statistics that the Chief of Financial Administration is bending, he's wearing pink glasses, and he's like, "It's actually cool. We just lose things sometimes. It's not true. The number of lost disputes of hedging orders is increasing. And I said that last time when Minister Ivan Pilný was. It was the defense that when the forest fell, splinters fly. Even if one company, one single company, was liquidated by an unlawful, illegal financial administration procedure, it's wrong. Then we repeatedly ask the Committee on Budgets who is responsible, who has failed, who has doubted what measures will be taken. All excuses. Everything was fine, just the stupid courts making the wrong decisions to paraphrase the position of the Chief of Financial Administration. They're constantly following this unsustainable process. We can look at the log of what he said when I asked him about the final decision of the court. He said, "But we did it well anyway." Yes, the court has decided otherwise, but I am convinced that we have done the right thing. Unsustainable argument. Let's talk about that before we give further powers to the Financial Administration. We have quite a fresh example of how the Financial Administration collects VAT. I read a comment from the Minister, who I liked, who said that he actually identifies with the verdict, that it is right and that it cannot be so that the Financial Administration takes money from whoever it pleases, or from whom it seems to be the most mobile and in which the chain is easily accessible. Same question, Madam Secretary. If you've analyzed the verdict, you said you'd be analyzing it, I don't know how long, you've got teams of experts in there, unlike MP opposition clubs. Who's to blame? Who made a mistake? Who decided that? About this illegal financial administration procedure? What will the measures be personnel, methodical, or change of legislation? After the judgment that the state had acted in an illegal way, the Finance Minister would say, "Well, they agree with the judgment, that's the right opinion. That seems so little to me. Not that it's not valuable, it's valuable. It's a different approach than that made by Chief Janeček, who actually says, "We didn't have a doubt, we just made the wrong decision. I really appreciated it, and I appreciate it - but nothing's wrong. But we've been through a business-control event called the Chief of Financial Administration's code name, it's like in those movies, "kombajn." The Financial Administration has put a harvester on our businessmen. We talked about this several times on the budget committee during the last parliamentary term. And as I recall, when the new head of the Financial Administration came to introduce himself to the Budget Committee, and my fellow Member Volný was there too, he had this presentation here, there was a canvas near the rapporteur's desk, then he was actually saying the sentences by which he actually follows. Every businessman is a potential person who doesn't pay taxes. Everyone's a suspect, we have to keep an eye on everyone. Where's the trust? He didn't hear me. Ask - and it's actually complicated - it was your former colleague who asked about it, it wasn't even the opposition MP who responded to it, it was the speech. At that moment, I understood why Andrej Babiš chose him. That was exactly the logic of "all stealing." It was in other words, he didn't say it like that, but they're all suspects, and that's why we're putting on combines, EETs, ridiculously high fines on inspection reports, etc. And that's why, by the way, the Financial Administration is losing one dispute after another, and I've read from open sources that only close to the main number of disputes that I dare not predict how they will turn out, whether they will go wrong for the state or not. [[17.40 hours]] And we still have a completely open question about possible damages for illegal state action. That's what I'd like to know, Madam Secretary, if it comes to that, how you're going to deal with it. Or what? Or will it stay that wolves and dogs bark and the caravan goes on and the Chief of Financial Administration starts Kombajn II or any other instrument? Because really, bullying and chasing the smallest is the easiest. It is a fundamental failure of the government to withdraw taxes in an illegal manner. You've been there a long time, at the ministry, I think you even had that section in your jurisdiction, so there's no 100 days of defense. I'd like an immediate response from you here. May I remind - and again, perhaps Mr Free will remember, perhaps not - when we discussed the case of koruna bonds, when the head of the Financial Administration answered the microphone to the Members of the Budget Committee: "I don't know how to control the koruna bonds, please give me any advice." In order to publish the celebratory press releases after a few months: "We have carried out x checks, we have filed 50 criminal notifications, collected and measured so much and so much taxes. " Without pressure from the Budget Committee, which did not like the Financial Administration, which spoke of an attack on the independence of the Financial Administration, it would not have been controlled at all, money would not have entered the state budget, criminal charges did not fall - although I do not know how they will turn out. [[unintelligible]] I don't want to say whether they're successful or not. As the Financial Administration progresses in the case of VAT freezing orders, I am a great skeptic for the professionalism of the Financial Administration procedure and for the ability of the Financial Administration to stand and win litigation. And we are pretending that nothing is going on, and under the cape of implementation, we want additional and other competences for Financial Administration. The question is, and that's the key question, Madam Secretary, I'm not just arguing over those paragraphs: why? Why does the Financial Administration want this? What's he gonna do with it? How will this improve taxpayers' lives? In what way will it make business easier or tax forms to fill out? We have unsuccessfully proposed here both in the past and during this parliamentary term, I admit that unsuccessfully, the abolition of the property acquisition tax. I don't know which one of you filled out the real estate tax form in recent years. It's really not a trivial thing. So besides buying or selling property from taxed money, aside from paying 4 percent of the tax, you're still hiring some guidance counselor who's able to fill out your complicated tax return and file it. We saw a major marketing event in the last parliamentary term when Andrej Babiš, Minister of Finance, told us: Instead of four pages of admission to dependent activity, we only have two! I have to say, I used it. It was done by putting some columns together, saving the lines, and reducing the font. And there have been no data that is unnecessary to fill out for a number of taxpayers. There's nothing left! But we had a message: look, we made two out of four pages of tax returns. I'm using him, Madam Secretary, as a person. But it didn't make it any easier. I'm filling out the same number of data as on the four sides as on the two sides. Maybe I'll save one A4, maybe that's a good thing, but there was no big deal. Speaking of Financial Administration and Tax Laws, sometime at the end of 2016, maybe a little earlier, precisely for overlaying koruna bonds and initial hedge orders problems, the Ministry of Finance came up with a plan to write a brand-new Income Tax Act, which will be a variant, which will simplify it, which may reduce the number of tax deductions, tax exemptions, tax exemptions. I say for myself, I'd welcome it. I was a little skeptical, but when it was because it was approved just before the election, but when the opinion was presented so that it would not be approved before the election, it would be the basis for the next government, why not. I expected to find out, see a new income tax proposal, and we can rationally debate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u11	Will you continue?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u12	I will. When the rapporteur listens to me, I will. Don't we have the prescribed pace? [[- No, we don't, I'm just asking.]] Thank you, thank you. The rapporteur won't listen to me. [[He's leaving for the foyer.]] In order not to delay, we can see how important this is for the rapporteur. The government came up with an amendment to the Income Tax Act. We've also heard it mediaally, 24, 23, solidarity premium, two bands, progressive tax - that's running over those communists that Marek Benda was talking about today in another law, a progressive tax. And look at my surprise, Madam Secretary, no new income tax bill to be completed by the election. And we're over four months after the election. Probably was about to implement this directive. Speaking of taxes and solidarity surcharges, we have been very often and very hard subject to criticism from the ANO movement that the ODS government, TOP 09 raised income tax and introduced a solidarity premium of 7 percent. Now I don't want to argue whether the criticism was justified or not. We have often said here that many of us are not happy about this. However, what are the facts? It is true, we have adopted this bill for three years, for the 2013 2014 tax period, 2015. Then the active change of law of the government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD, which abolished the time limitation. So at this point, this is true for tax periods 2016, 2017 and 2018. So, nice colleagues from the YES movement, it's 3:3. If you want to criticize us, I accept the criticism, you're on the same page. We've put in place a solidarity premium for three years, you've also put in place a solidarity premium for three years. However, if you look at the government bill, you will find that the YES movement wants to win. He doesn't want to end it after three years. I would also appreciate that it was fair to the previous government, 3 to the third, it was a difficult time, we wanted to spread the problems of economic recession or economic stagnation on all levels of the population, on all levels of taxpayers. You decided to extend it by three years, okay. You're planning on extending it further. No more time limits. So from January 1st, you will be leading the ODS government, which you have criticized so harshly for this particular step. What are your arguments? Where would we replace a state budget blackout? So either this argument applies to all governments, or it does not apply to any government. Either it was wrong and then criticize us, and if you have a chance, change it, or support our proposals to change it. It wasn't right, apologize for the criticism and say, "We were wrong, you guys actually did it right, which is why we've been doing it for three years, and we want to continue this for another year. To be exact, since 2019, the number is not exactly the same, I think, by the way, that the tax is now 23,23 - 23,37, thank you to the Minister for the clarification - if we were to tax from gross wages and not from super gross wages, and the latest government proposal is 23 percent. So by 0.37 percentage point, the government is proposing YES, after three years of letting it be the same as the ODS government, reducing the solidarity premium, or the second income tax rate, no matter what we call it, I don't want to argue about it. And yet you are able to claim: We reduce taxes! Yes, by 0.37 percentage points in this case. So don't criticize us for introducing it! Or change it with us - and you've already had the opportunity several times -! We explained why it was, why it was, for example. VAT on the second pillar of the pension scheme, therefore VAT was increased. [[unintelligible]] You guys canceled the second pillar, I respect that, but you kept the VAT money! With what justification? As usual, we need the money, where would we get it, how would we cover this blackout? Can't you hear the hypocrisy? Those who set it up made a grave mistake. They've raised taxes. That's awful! But we'll keep them the same, because we need the money. I hear it, maybe you don't. You're splitting it up. When we set it up, it was a gross mistake when you set it up, so it was okay. That it's the same thing, maybe it doesn't make a decision in the marketing world, but it's really exactly the same thing. [[17.50 hours]] So these are much more important things than proposals for further and further enhancement of the competence of the Financial Administration. I don't think customs should do it anymore. You might as well think about that. Even customs could be, that's also your favorite file that you want to strengthen your powers over the long term. But where does it lead? We're all dirty suspects, above us is the Financial Administration, which checks out those dirty suspects, some online, very often. We can't cut taxes because we need the money. And if we're wrong and the court says it's wrong, then nothing really happened, we did it right, only the court made the wrong decision, we leave everyone responsible in their positions, because they stick to the basic - all stealing or all businessmen are suspects. And that is the basis of the debate, why we should not expand and increase the competence of the Financial Administration beyond mandatory implementation. I will repeat this once more - because the Financial Administration is taking advantage of existing competences. And it's not the opposition's opinion, it's the final decisions of independent courts. And if someone is abused and unable to legally exploit existing competences, it is extremely dangerous to add additional powers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u13	I thank the Prime Minister. Before we go to the actual notes, I'd like to apologize for not saying hello to all of you when I took over the chair, so good evening. And now I have here with Mr Bláha's point of fact. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u14	Hello, colleagues, hello, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to react the whole time, but I couldn't take it anymore after what was said here. Because I'm paying the millionaire tax I call millionaire tax the whole time you've introduced it. All the time I've been pointing out that of all the investments I'm going to make as an entrepreneur as a businessman, I'm going to pay the millionaire's tax. But I just wanted to say the important thing. You forgot to mention here that although you introduced her, all the other governments could have canceled her, certainly, but you all set up expenses for her, and especially the mandatory or permanent expenses. So it's constantly increasing what you want to drink, to eat what you still want to give to someone, it's growing from every government, I've been watching it all these years I've been doing it, how you're all rushing it in front of me. And I'm tired of playing here for four months now for what was 70 years ago. It was the top of the line today. I'm tired of sitting here and talking about what happened, instead of dealing with what we're most concerned about - health care, roads, entrepreneurs, family companies, employees. In the Czech Republic there are no employees for work. Nobody wants to work anymore. Gentlemen, remember, we've already gotten back to the Communist era when I was young and got an apartment just because I was willing to work until 7:00 p.m. tonight. Nobody's willing to do it again today. People don't want to get up for work in the morning. And if we don't solve their problems, we're actually useless here. [[The President draws attention to the time]] We were all elected to solve their problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u15	Time! There. She now asked me with a factual remark from the Minister. Please. [[The secretary wanted priority rights.]] If it's a priority right, then I have to give priority to factual points, and only then. So, factually speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u16	Then I have a very short time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There's a lot to be said here. I didn't want to react until the end, but if I don't make it, I'm sure I'll check in later. We're presenting an amendment to the tax code. This amendment implements the European DAC 5 Directive and, beyond that, amends certain provisions that we have never denied. Just a little technical comment on Mrs Langšádlová. We've already said it here in private, of course the legislative rules of the government remember that, and the implemented text is always underlined in that text. And what's not underlined is beyond that. We never pretended that the novel was going beyond that. However, we discussed it for a year, because we were actually under pressure from the implementation deadline, and we retreated to an entirely possible limit. Today there is a so-called The AML Directive on money laundering and the DAC 5 Directive is intended primarily to help combat money laundering, which clearly states who is obliged and that a certain set of data must be communicated to the Financial Analytical Office. The new DAC 5 directive says that these obliged persons will be communicated to tax administrators. So it's not that the Ministry of Finance, as a petitioner or this government, essentially wants to expand the powers of tax administrators. They're already expanded based on DAC 5. And in addition to the amendment, we are going because essentially DAC 5 says that this information will be communicated if it is from international cooperation in tax administration. In other words, the German tax administrator has the right to receive this information, but the Czech tax administrator does not. That doesn't make any sense to me. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So that's why we went into implementation. So I'll check in later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u17	Okay. Thank you. I now have Mr Stanjura's point of fact here again. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u18	Mr Vice-President, it's not again, it's the first time. You're saying I have a point of fact again. It's the first time, just for the record. For Mr Bláha, by your means. Who's been drawing up budgets for the last four or five years? Wasn't that your movement? It's not true that the mandatorial expenses were set up for the taxes. That's completely different. Look who has hired 30,000 civil servants, how much has increased year-on-year over the last four years, e.g. expenditure, wage costs for public sector employees. Look who likes to add, like you said, I would never put it that way - those who want to drink it and eat it, those are your words. So start at home with that in your movement. If you push it, then I'm sure we'll agree. I understood it as a severe criticism of the budgets that were there. And I don't want to name all the legislative measures now, which have increased the mandatorial spending that has supported your movement. But if you don't remember any, I'll tell you next time - the Vice-President will be right to say again - in a factual reminder. Who here likes to say "we've raised the salaries of employees"? That's mandatory expenses. I'm not judging whether it was right or wrong. But you complain about yourself while attacking opposition. So look in the mirror, who increased the mandatory expenses. Take a look at the budgets of 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. 2014 was prepared by Rusnokův's government, I completely understand. And look at the mandatorial expenses and see who approved those laws. And when you convince me that you and your movement have reduced the mandatorial expenses, I'll give you the truth. So start at home and don't point to the right, but point to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u19	Well, thank you. So I'm sorry, it wasn't with a point of fact again, it was just again. So now again, with a factual remark from the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u20	I'll quickly follow up on my previous speech. So we have basically de facto prepared legislation that we wanted to implement in addition to the same permissions for the Czech tax administrator. Just so you know. Today it has implemented about 13 countries of the European Union and of which countries such as Great Britain, France, Sweden, Slovakia, Croatia, but many others went in the implementation, respectively. in the legislation, to speak precisely, the same way as the Czech Republic, because it just makes sense. As part of the legislative process, we encountered a very hard resistance from the professional chambers - the Bar Association, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the Executor Chamber, the Notary Chambers. So as part of the compromise, in order to simply enforce the legislation, we have retreated to a possible limit that was tolerable, and for these professional chambers we have introduced the regulation in a genuinely implemented manner. This means that they will communicate information that serves only for international cooperation in tax administration. In committee discussions, especially in the constitutional committee yesterday, I supported an amendment which even further limits the transfer of information to central level, that is, they will actually exchange this information together after an assessment, on the one hand, by the General Financial Directorate, on the other hand, by the competent authority of the Chamber, that is, the Chamber as the highest body of these lawyers, advisers, these professional groups, because we want to make it clear that this is just a matter of obtaining information, and we simply do not want any further competence. Where we implement beyond that, it concerns the area of information obtained from financial institutions, banking institutions and these. [[Time warning]] And that's basically where we're trying to expand § 57 para. 3. I'd like to respond to the Prime Minister's remarks, but I can't, so I'm done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u21	I would like to draw all the speakers' attention to the fact that you have to respond to the previous speakers, not to follow up on your previous speeches. I therefore ask Mr Bláha to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u22	I'm gonna be really short right now. I don't want to judge what was. I wasn't here, and I don't want to go back to the past. If we keep going back to the past, we won't do anything. So I'm calling you all here through Mr President, if you really want to start doing something about the situation and change it, let's sit at the same table and talk about it. What's happening here is that they're all making 30-fifty proposals for change, and we don't even know how the current situation works, we have no idea, so we're not gonna change anything, we're not gonna do anything, we're not gonna be able to move anything. So I'm begging you, let's do this. I'm ready for this. Thank you. Through the President, of course, I call you, let's do this, let's change it. I'm willing to talk to everyone about taxes, how it works. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u23	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Kalousek, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u24	Thank you. With all due respect, I would like to say to Mr Bláh that he was here. He raised his hand for the budget, which significantly raised the state's mandatory spending, not that he didn't pick it up. And he has raised his hand for the budget, which has set the lowest level of investment from national resources in the last 15 years, not that he has not! Frankly, Mr. Ambassador, as a person, I like you, but the challenges of "we don't know shit about it, but let's work" don't appeal to me very much. I just wanted to say to the Minister that, at first sight, of course, it seems illogical that the German administration is entitled to the information, not domestic, but both of us have read the directive, so the German administration is entitled to the information that this information will not be provided because of confidentiality. It's just this boundary that gives the directive, and you don't allow it. That's what it's supposed to be, or it's not supposed to be implemented. But please, the Constitutional Committee has adopted at least some compromise proposal, and I would settle for it in relation to the Bar and Notary Chambers. What I warn about and what I consider impossible is the amendment of Section 57 of the Tax Code, which has absolutely nothing to do with the directive and which will make Financial Administration the most repressively powerful body in the Czech Republic. And I point out once again that we don't have the tax authorities here to subjugate law enforcement agencies, and without the supervision of the state's attorney and the judge!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u25	Thank you. This has exhausted the factual points, and now I want to ask the Minister if he is reporting to me for a debate with priority rights. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u26	I'd take it one step at a time, as the argument was made here. I'm not gonna say what I said again. It was discussed here, as I noticed, so there is satisfaction with the compromise that we have taken to the professional chambers. I supported, in fact, some oral amendments on the Constitutional Legal Committee yesterday, as I mentioned earlier. I am ready to support other amendments that have essentially been tabled in this regard. We are talking about § 57. It's a paragraph where we're really going beyond implementation, we've never kept it a secret. There are reasons, of course. There's one more thing I'd like to say. The tax authorities have their licenses today. Basically, when you look, there's talk of dog fees, about the fact that municipalities are also the tax administrator. Yes, they are, 25 years old. They already had this right in the Tax Administration and Charges Act. And I don't have any signals from the various analyses that I have at my disposal that this right would be used in any way, because they basically don't need that kind of information from the nature of things. And the information is not given orally or by e-mail, the information has to be requested by a request under the tax code. The call has the nature of the decision, it must be duly justified by such a challenge and must, of course, have a lead in the file that is being carried out on a specific matter. So it's nothing arbitrary, and of course it has to have support and it has to be related to specific tax proceedings. Therefore, it was actually accepted that the extension of § 57 was proposed. As regards the unique identifier that has been mentioned here, which will enable the account to be recognized safely, this adjustment has been processed by the gesture of the new Payment Act, where this concept is enshrined, and corresponds to standard application in other legislation - e.g. Section 33 of the Enforcement Order, Section 19 of the Act on Social Security Insurance Insurance, Section 17a of the Act on Association in Political Parties, Section 78 of the Act on Gambling, Section 260 of the Civil Code. That's where this term is anchored. So we're not going any different ways. Information relating to the use of electronic banking services can be a key means of evidence in detecting sophisticated tax evasion. This is actually related to a certain knowledge test and, if necessary, to quantify the damage in the adhesion proceedings of the criminal, which is often part of it. The argument put forward in the reasoning that tax fraud is to be dealt with by the police and not by the tax administrator is not accurate, please. The tax administrator primarily deals with tax evasion, which means, it is his sole task, which gives him tax rules. Secondly, they form the necessary information background for the prosecution of tax fraud, which are investigated by the police authorities. I would like to point this out again, even though I just said it here, I'll just add that every tax administrator can't ask for this information. The proportionality test must always be followed. Only those of you who doubt that a sufficient proportionality test has been carried out, I would like to refer to the explanatory report, where it is described in detail. So I'm not gonna read it here so I don't delay you, but it's very detailed there. So he must always follow the proportionality test and this will lead to the fact that this information will actually be required by a narrow group of professionals. [[18.10 hours]] I would also like to point out one more thing, and that is that in no way, and it has already been said repeatedly here, and please do not argue that the data available to the Financial Administration is not being protected. The data is protected above standard, and I don't know a single case, and I've already asked for it at the last meeting when it was said to possibly refresh my memory, I don't know the only case where any data would be leaked from the Financial Administration. So let us not be alarmed by the taxpayers that information and data, and these are huge data available to the Financial Administration, are not sufficiently protected. They're protected enough. If we talk - big debates were about data from sales records, for example, about data from control reports. He's got those at his disposal. Twenty people in the Republic in the Financial Administration will get to this data. And again, I'm stressing here, everyone has a background check on the National Security Bureau to a level of confidentiality. It was said here - I am only looking quickly at my remarks - that if the law passes, there will be an incentive for the Constitutional Court. Of course, that's everyone's right, and I don't mind about that at all, but I would just like to refer to a very interesting finding or decision of the Constitutional Court to record sales. He has also been discussed here several times and will probably still be discussed. For example, in the area of payment cards, when he canceled credit cards as cash payments, he stated in the reasoning that the tax administrator should prioritize the individual with the possibility of obtaining this information from, for example, financial institutions. Finally, the tax rules impose on him that he can always request information only if he cannot obtain it from other public or public authorities. Something has been said here about why the new Income Tax Act has not yet been submitted, that it has been mentioned. Of course, we have him ready. You know, but I'm a little surprised. If we submit an amendment to the law, a tax package, an amendment to the Income Tax Act, I don't understand one thing. We had to present it because a large part of this amendment is implementing. We are implementing the so-called European directive ATAD, which is linked to the fight against tax evasion. And, of course, we're going beyond that, and beyond that, we wanted to cancel a super gross wage and a solidarity premium, which she had in her electoral program, or in a government statement, sorry for the expression, she already had the last government. When we want to do this, I hear that the government is not supposed to make such a crucial decision in demise, and when we have not yet submitted a new Income Tax Act, I hear why it has not been submitted. So I guess the government could take that step in demise right now. So I'm really very, very conflicted about this, and I don't know what's right for us. Yes, we've presented, we're in an inter-departmental area, so we're still debating these things. I have justified this, and I assume that we will still be debating them, so I do not want to drag up this debate, because, above all, we should primarily debate the amendment to the tax code. However, what was said here that the government in 2012, now I don't know if 2011, 2012, I think that 2012 canceled a super gross wage and a solidarity premium, yes, that's true, so I believe that if this government does, it will receive support, but it did it in some three or almost four years. And the proposal was prepared to cost public budgets of at least 40 billion. So every government's duty doesn't matter that it was the government that came here last term, but every government was basically to abolish this legislation because it wasn't the new government, it just couldn't afford it. There were other traps like a single collection point that... that's why it had to be canceled, because it wasn't absolutely ready for the project. Legislation was prepared, IT systems were not prepared, so the Supreme Audit Office finally stated, which stated that the single collection point cost some 3.5 or 3.2 billion, but was not de facto built. These funds were used to build IT systems, but they were not linked to a single collection point. So it was the last government's duty to just abolish this legislation. As far as the Financial Administration is concerned, I have a big request. I was at a union meeting recently, where I was invited by the Financial Administration staff, and they asked me one question: When will you stand up for us? When are we just gonna feel the support? And I would like to say that 16,000 people are working on Financial Administration, and believe that the absolute majority is doing their job honestly, with client access to taxpayers, with decency, and with great commitment, because they like the job. So let's not throw them in the same bag, please. I've talked about this many times when it comes to securing orders. Finally, President Stanjura knows that we have discussed this several times on the Committee on Budgets. We've moved on, we've taken a new methodical instruction. I, on the basis of recent judgments, have asked for an accurate analysis of the lost and won disputes. I'm waiting for her. I put a pretty short deadline on her, and all that stuff is being dealt with. Of course, there's a possibility of applying damages, a legal option. We've had a law on damages caused by an incorrect decision by a public authority for years here, so the taxpayers have the right, if they lose this lawsuit, to turn to the Ministry of Finance, which will assess it, and if they are not satisfied with this resumé, then possibly to the court. So legal problems, legal conditions are clearly given. This is how it is done, and I believe that much is done by the Ministry of Finance for this too. And believe me, I don't care, and I do that very often. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u27	I, too, thank you, and now here I have Mr Kalousek's factual comment. It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u28	Thank you. For the last time, I promise. But Madam Secretary, you said that, of course, the Financial Administration has to deal with tax fraud. Well, I wasn't questioning that. Of course I do. But the degree of competence and competence that the Financial Administration has when dealing with financial fraud is different from the level of competence and powers of law enforcement authorities, and that is not a coincidence. This is a question of a very balanced reflection on the division of power and mutual insurance and control that is subject to the exceptional powers. So those exceptional powers that law enforcement authorities have, but they don't have today's tax administration, they have to be subject to some kind of control, either by a prosecutor or by a judge. But now you want the authorities to have the special authority. Financial administration without that control, and that's just a violation of the balance that's here, and that balance in the division of power and powers, that's something that protects every citizen's freedom and privacy. And I dare say that's something your government simply doesn't respect, but it wants everything to one pile. No power-sharing, no brakes, no fuse, no chatting, no driving from one place to another, and we're working. But that is no longer a parliamentary democracy, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u29	I thank you, and now I have Mr Benda here with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u30	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, as well as the Constitutional Committee, it has been said that other unique identifiers are contained in a number of other regulations. The regulations have been listed. I am glad that they are contained in a number of other regulations, but so far no one has even brought us any closer to what such another unique identifier is. I'm just wondering if it's written from the prescription to the prescription that we have it somewhere, so we're going to rewrite it everywhere, or if we can at least be told what this other unique identifier means. Otherwise, I'll get to my performance, but this feels really funny, the constant legacy. But we have it in other laws, too, except we don't know what we have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u31	Thank you. I have a note here to apologize to Mr. Třešňák from 18 a.m. to midnight for family reasons today. We will now move on to the general debate. Favorite law? There you go. Mr Faltýnek shall act with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u32	Good afternoon, respectively. Evening. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to put forward a procedural proposal, whether it would be possible for the Chamber of Deputies to act on a territorially and factually basis today, and to vote, even after 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u33	I'd like to ask for some clarification, if that's until 21 o'clock. [[Ambassador Faltynek: 21 o'clock.]] By 21 o'clock, okay. Thank you for this procedural proposal. We will vote immediately. Ambassador Stanjura reporting? Mr. Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u34	I'm sorry. My colleague Marek Benda - thank you for the floor, Mr President - is right, the proposal is unvoting. I made a mistake. I want to propose here this particular proposal on behalf of two clubs, namely the club YES and the club SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u35	Mr Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u36	So let's describe the situation. We have a government here with no confidence, government benches almost empty, Prime Minister missing, one, two, three, four ministers - I don't even know what you are, 15, 16. So a third of the government, tops. And we're here because of the government without confidence to discuss a law that's poorly prepared, where under the cover of implementation, the powers of the Financial Administration are disproportionately increased, and we're supposed to sit here until 21st hour because someone's in a hurry. There's no rushing the wrong law, ladies and gentlemen. No law is better than bad law. If the secretary came up with a clean implementation, she already had it in the Senate. Because, as she rightly admits - I do not say that she has kept it secret - that they so-called improve it, give additional and other competences, other and other competences to the Financial Administration, and in such a state we citizens cannot support such a law. But since we didn't expect to act after 7:00 p.m., and we have a program, we need to see how we're going to proceed. That's why I'm asking you for a 40-minute break at the ODS club meeting. That's enough, we're fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u37	Well, the custom is that we should allow a break, so if no one objects, I would interrupt the meeting for 40 minutes for a break. [[Objection and screams in the hall.]] I'd interrupt if there was no objection, a meeting for 40 minutes at a meeting... [[Screams in the O.R. No!]] Yes, so since the first motion for an extension was made, we will vote on the proposal first... First, we're gonna... [[Again, objections from the O.R.]] Really?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u38	I object to the President's procedure. Mr. Vice-President, you're making a big deal out of this today. That's really not possible. So I object to the President's procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u39	Well, in that case, I guess we'll just let the President vote on the objection first. I just want to make it clear that this is an objection to my procedure that we will vote first on the proposal that was put forward first, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u40	That's unusual for me, this debate. I didn't understand your question. I made one motion, and you say we're going to vote, which I made the first proposal. But when I handed one, he was the first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u41	Another proposal was made, a proposal to extend the time for the vote of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u42	Well, I object to your progress, so we have to deal with the objection. And that's my first suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u43	I agree that this is your first proposal, but it is not the first proposal here in general. I, then, am opening the vote on the opposition to the President's procedure. [[Still screaming in the hall.]] I'll reset the vote. Let's do it again. We'll all check out first. I'll ask all of you to sign in. Before the number is settled, I would reiterate that we will be voting on the objection to the President's procedure. It's going to be the number 30 vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is over. In the vote number 30 140 Members were enrolled, for it was 34, against 57. The motion was denied. So we're going to move on with my progress. So we would now have a procedural vote on the extension of the time to vote on the laws until the 21st hour. So I'm gonna start voting number 31. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 31, 147 Members were enrolled, 96 against 42. The motion was accepted. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] We will therefore act and vote after 19 o'clock until 21 o'clock at this time. And now the request for...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u44	Vice-President is making fun of me, isn't he? First he bends the Rules of Procedure, leaves the vote completely differently, and then he says, "I'll give you a break," which I don't want right now. If you need a break, Mr Vice-President, take it. We're not, we're debating. I hope that the 94 Members who have been in favour of the extension will sit here honestly and listen to our honest arguments within 21 hours. Don't you all disappear again to come by at 20.03 to vote on some. [[unintelligible]] If you enjoy it, we enjoy it, we have serious reservations about the bill, so I beg you to listen to us. I'm logged in with priority rights, aren't I? So we can go back to the tax issue. [[Member Benešík objects from the O.R.]] Then I will ask the honourable Member to protest the technical malfunction that the government movement has certainly caused, yes, I have such suspicions. [[He's laughing.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u45	Well, then... Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm logged in, my card's stuck in the voting machine, but I push, push, and it doesn't react. It's already happened here, I think this week. I really have a problem with the voting device. I voted against, nothing was displayed. So I'd like to repeat the vote, just because it doesn't respond to me, and I don't know if other colleagues have a similar problem. I just can't. I pulled a card, tried to log in again, I can't. There's a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u47	Thank you. Let me just make sure that this is a repeat of the last vote. In that case, we shall repeat the last vote. In that case, we will vote on the objection first, so we will opt out. I will ask all Members to come forward. And before the number is settled, I repeat that when the number is settled, we will vote on the objection... Mr. Hájek, anything else? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u48	Dear colleagues. I would like to raise an objection to the President because he is not acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because what the KDU-ČSL colleague said here did not meet the conditions of the Rules of Procedure in order to vote on the objection. Thank you. One more time. Mr Benešík did not really act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He didn't question the vote. That means whether he pushed it or not, that's no reason to question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u49	You questioned the vote, didn't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u50	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President, no extra charge for Vice-Presidentship. Mr Hájek has objected to your procedure. This should be put to the vote without delay. We'll make a decision. After we have decided on Mr Hájek's objection, we can return to Mr Benešík's proposal. If we then decide on Mr Benešík's proposal, we may possibly repeat the vote. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u51	I agree. Chairman Vondráček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u52	I therefore follow the dialogue between the two, and I believe that Mr Hájek's proposal was, in the sense that the proposal was unvoteable, because the vote was not even called into question, so we could not vote on the objection. That was not an objection to the management meeting procedure. It would be good if Mr Hájek specified. I felt differently about it as a listener here in the corner, so I'd like to ask my colleague Hájek to comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u53	I also saw it as an objection to my progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u54	I'd like to speed things up, please. This means that I agree with my colleague Stanjura, which means that once again, in the first phase, I object to Mr President. Thank you. To the management meeting's progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u55	I hope everyone knows what we're going to vote on. I don't think... If not, then I would like to reiterate that we will be voting on the objection to the President's procedure. It will be vote number 32, which I hereby initiate. Therefore, please vote in favour of those who object to the President's procedure. Anyone who opposes, please vote and raise your hand. Thank you. 147 Members were enrolled in the 32 vote, 64 against 44, and the objection was rejected. So now we move on to Mr Benešík's objection. He's headed to the counter and he wants to add something?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u56	In order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I question the vote. My voting device just didn't work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u57	I would like to make sure that in this vote or in the previous one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u58	The other one, of course. The voting system worked in this vote, which I did not question completely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I hope we all understand that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u59	I, too, thank you for the clarification. We will therefore vote on the objection to the previous vote. It'll be vote number 33. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 33 151 Members were enrolled, for it was 115, against 13. Objection received. So we will repeat the vote on the extension of the time for the procedure. It'll be vote number 34. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Vote number 34. 151 Members were enrolled for 94 against 50. The resolution was adopted. So we're going to take a territorial action and vote... Checking for votes? Okay, I'll wait. In the meantime, I shall read a note apologizing to Mrs Matušovská from 18.30 pm to the end of the day. So please, do we have the results confirmed or anyone else complaining? I guess we could keep going. No one is protesting, so we will continue and go back to the debate. First of all, I have Mr Nacher's factual remark here, but I think it's a mistake. In that case, please, for Mr Ferjen's general debate now... don't you? That's factual, or it's... With priority rights? You haven't gotten off the stand yet?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u60	And you've learned how to run a meeting? Apparently not. Keep your uncalled for remarks, or I'll suggest your replacement. I'm not really curious about that. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] I would like to ask the Minister, as soon as the important meeting with the President of the Chamber of Deputies is over, I understand, of course... [[Laughs in the hall.]] I want to thank her for responding to some of my questions, but the key questions have gone away and avoided the answers. So I'll try to repeat them, they're really crucial because they're based on the last sentence I said in my first performance with priority rights. This was a statement that the Financial Administration was using existing powers in an illegal way, as stated by independent courts by their final decision. And my questions were. Firstly, who is responsible for this in the Financial Administration, what measures personnel, methodical, legislative or other Madam Secretary has already implemented or is going to avoid repeating the situation. And then the key question, why does the Minister, when the Financial Administration has failed so repeatedly, propose beyond the mandatory implementation of further expansion of the powers of the Financial Administration. And it may seem like an unnecessary debate or a lengthy one, but it's not pointless for us. [[18.40 hours]] In the last five years, the state has been constantly cutting off freedom, always bringing further and further regulation, more and more control, under good reason. Then the question arises who will control the controllers. Well, GIBS is supposed to control the police, the Prime Minister has lost confidence, the Home Secretary has lost confidence, too, the director. [[Nesroz.]] And I'm not defending him, they're not our people. These are the people who came to us during the coalition governments YES, CSSD, KDU. So I wouldn't be accused of defending some people who came in under the ODS. None of this is true. I just find it funny that the one who doesn't have confidence - the basic constitutional duty to have confidence - has the courage to say "I've lost confidence." Well, he's already lost her in the Chamber of Deputies. And instead of being modest, they lose confidence in the management staff of various organizations. But that's gonna be an extraordinary meeting we've called for. It was signed by 70 MPs from six MPs. The terms shall be determined by the President of the Chamber of Deputies in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 10 days of this evening. So this meeting will be held by next Friday at the latest. And I want to thank my colleagues and colleagues from those six MPs for supporting this request. Madam Secretary used such a popular method and I must say that effective. And now I don't mean it ironically. We have political questions, we have a political dispute. She puts on that official language and now she says - in Section 7 of another law, or in Section 17 of the Social Insurance Act... And it's very funny and very effective attention to tire us out to focus on the details. Not the minor things, but the details. But the basic one's still on the table. Why the Financial Administration is losing these disputes and why we have to increase its competence. Under normal circumstances, the Finance Minister would have made order in the Financial Administration. First, it would ensure that the Financial Administration acted in accordance with existing competences, in accordance with existing laws, and, after convincing the Government, the House, the Budget Committee and the opposition that it was working in order, without any problems, it could come up with a proposal, well-founded why to expand further competences. And notice, once again, we have a popular sport here, or, as I would say, a popular government argument: we have to, we have to, we have to implement DAC 5. And Madam Secretary, you used another directive, I forgot the title... [[Secretary of State from the news desk: AML, money laundering.]] AML, DAC 5. And we still have to do something. At the same time, we were promised that everything would change in Brussels. If Andrej Babiš goes there, there won't be that many responsibilities. But so be it. But we don't... [[Objection from the diaper to the length of the performance.]] For Mr Janulík. He wanted to be here by 9:00, don't be nervous, we'll make it. There's plenty of time. Two more hours, 18 minutes. [[Minister to MP Stanjure off the microphone.]] Why? [[Secretary off the mic.]] I can do both, Madam Secretary. But that's a little private talk, and I don't think we're gonna want to embarrass our colleagues and colleagues about the debate, so maybe I'll call it that on the microphone. Besides, I'm saying, if we'd already succumb to this argument that we have to implement, then why are we putting something extra in there again? Why do we want to be so active? I often hear the critical words of Andrej Babiš, and I agree with them that there are too many regulations coming from Brussels and that Brusel wants to regulate everything. And that it is then unnecessary, complicated, that it reduces citizens' confidence in the European Union, that it annoys citizens, entrepreneurs and so on. And I agree with those critical opinions. But that's just talk. Then comes one bill, the other bill, the third bill. And not only are we to implement what Brusel is telling us, how to regulate, we're going to add something else. How credible is the criticism of excessive regulation from Brussels when I add something else to what I have to do? She's not credible at all. It would be faithful if we did what we had to do and tried to change it into the future, so that we had to do less. But if I add anything else to what I have to do, I don't think I can criticize the level of regulation. And we were talking about fees. I wonder, Madam Secretary, who will judge the proportionality, as you said, will always be judged. Who's gonna judge? Office of the Regional Department of Financial Administration? I really care. Who will judge this, the proportionality test you mentioned, that it will always, in any case, be considered? What does the tax office need, for example - and do we have a lot of taxpayers - for example, real estate taxes? That's hundreds of thousands. I'd say it's more than a million taxpayers. What does the Financial Administration need an IP address for? I'd really like to know. You have a property or a garage, so the tax office needs to know your IP address. I don't know what it's for, but it has to be. But, the Minister said, there will always be a proportionality test. With the normal ownership of the apartment, the house, the gardens, the garage, a few properties, I can't imagine how the proportionality test could be positive, that it's okay, that it's not redundant. Well, if only the proposal had written down which taxes didn't apply. Real estate taxes, for example. Real estate taxes. The state knows everything. He's got it on the cadastral, he's got a registered owner, he knows how much to pay. He's gonna send it and he knows if the guy paid him. What else does he need? I'd really like to know. In addition, the tax is well collected, there is a minimum amount of non-payments. I don't understand that at all. And I could go on like this. But the finance secretary without confidence - nothing personal, Madam Secretary, is simply a constitutional state - is asking us to do this quickly. Coalition partners YES, SPD are for - fast. I really don't understand. Or do you all, as Members, want your acquaintances, relatives to hand over all that other information to the Financial Authority? Why? If you don't want it like we do, then try to change the law with us, and if there's no will in the government party, then reject it. Let them come up with a clean implementation, and then it'll be easy. Let them download their improvements to European regulations and other regulations beyond Brussels, and then it will go quickly. If they insist on how it's written today, it won't really work quickly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u61	Thank you. And now I don't have any actual notes here, so... [[This is Mrs Procházková.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u62	Good evening. If I am not mistaken, we are discussing an amendment that implements European law, and our tax administrator wants to have the same rights as foreign entities. Isn't that right, Madam Secretary? [[Yes.]] That's how I understood it. On the constitutional committee, we discussed with the Minister some restrictions that would work on the objections of the professional chambers, and the Minister was helpful. [[Yes.]] That's right. If I am not mistaken, this standard is to make the money flow more transparent and to make a little bit of an overview of how it actually looks about sending money between the Czech Republic and abroad and so on. It's just about transparency and preventing tax evasion. That's right. Why, then, are we resisting this? I notice who's resisting it, who's defending it, who doesn't want it. Who's that tonight? Absolutely not ano. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u63	Thank you for your point of view. I have Mr Stanjura's apology here by 23 o'clock for business reasons. And now we will move on to the general debate, unless there are further factual remarks from the hall. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will appear and Mr Benda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u64	Thank you for the floor. I'd like us to go back to the press in a more factual way. I agree with my colleagues from TOP 09 and ODS that in a number of cases it is problematic when, in the framework of the implementation of European law, further changes are made to laws beyond the transposition directive. I fully agree that, as the Government has put forward § 57 para. 3, I think it's too great an extension of the powers of tax administrators. And I think it's appropriate that we reduce it significantly and address the primarily transposition part. However, let us address this issue in substance and not just in terms of the fact that it is a transposition law in general. This is one specific paragraph - and here I would like to correct it through Mr Kalousek - which is already in our legal order, so, for example, information on deposits and deposits or account holders is already being provided today. The enlargement proposed by the Ministry is, in my opinion, also disproportionate, but I would refrain from saying anything about any unprecedented interference, because the really the institute in § 57 para. 3 is already, and I think we should talk about scale. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which proposed the most radical enlargement, that is, § 57 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) a government proposal to cut and reduce this enlargement very significantly. I would very much like the Ministry of Finance to accept this change, which has been passed across the parties in the Constitutional Legal Committee, as its own and as a minimum does not prevent it. I'd appreciate it if club YES supported this change. From the pirát side - we would see this as a helpful step towards some privacy protection within the framework of a change of law. It really does not seem appropriate to us that the tax administrator, which may also be the municipal authority, should be able by law to monitor the movement of all people through IP addresses and geolocation data on mobile phones, as the government unfortunately proposes. [[There's a lot of restlessness in the room.]] So that's the first thing we'd be very happy to do if the House took over and changed. Furthermore, we consider it a reasonable proposal by a fellow Member of the Válková, who has proposed that changes in confidentiality be made to the future, that is, lawyers and other bodies mentioned in the law should not be obliged to provide information which they received before the law was effective, but only for the future. This means that it would start to apply, but there would be no situations where a lawyer would have to give his client an obligation to quote, who had previously been informed that it was confidential. That's a change. And a fundamental change for us is for applications to pass through the central liaison office. If these three changes are accepted, we are open and, moreover, we propose that in cases where there is a suspicion of tax defaults of over half a million crowns, there is some support in the Code of Criminal Procedure, if I am not mistaken, the instrument is also available for national operations. If we have committed ourselves in the European Union to combating serious tax evasion at European level, we think that the same instrument should also be available to the Czech authorities in the Czech Republic. This is our position on this law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u65	Thank you, too. I will ask Mr Benda for a debate, Mr Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u66	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we have a bit of an atmosphere about the tax code. I'd almost say it's a little useless in places. However, a few points, on the one hand, on what is the original substance of the bill, what is the substance of the resolution adopted, in particular the constitutionally-legal committee, and then I will also try to justify the proposals to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. I would begin with a general statement that it is a great failure if the directives are implemented into the Czech Republic beyond what they command. It is very dangerous, and it is, of course, leading to a dramatic increase in people's distrust in the European Union. And one of the fundamental problems that exists in our country is that everything always goes to Europe. Someone here thinks we have to have packed doughnuts, which, of course, has never been a condition, it has been said that they must not be taken into hand, but here somebody makes up that we have to have packed doughnuts, put it in some legal regulation, and then people say, "The Europe has completely gone mad." And unfortunately, it is not a notoriety that the resorts, especially if they are waiting to pass their standards until the last moment, do not bring them in time, and I look forward to bringing the government in a month or two of GDPRs, one of the most complex, problematic and also expensive standards that Europe has adopted, which is to be implemented since 1 June, and we do not yet have it proposed in the Chamber of Deputies, then I am really curious about how we are going to deal with this here and how we are going to implement this European regulation. But it is a big deal, and I am even still thinking about whether we should simply ban it strictly for law-makers if you refer to it, and I think that it would be a topic for the Commission on the Rules of Procedure, that something is implementing the European directive, then there should be only those things that are implementing the European directives that are based on the European directive, and not that each resort will always add five, ten of its tiny ideas, its minor improvements, and says: because you must approve me of the implementation of the European directive, because it is very urgent and it should have been two months ago, we have been bothered with that year and quarter at the Legislative Council of the Government, but at the same time we are only giving it to the House for two months. And this is also a complaint that I also called the Minister. Although I understand that the Minister is innocent of this, because the Minister is not so long and the elections are still in place, so I understand that it is a bit difficult there, but the fact that it is always discussed x months at government level, commentary proceedings, legislative councils of the government, and then he runs into the House and says: if you do not have it approved in two months, there will be a scary problem and we will pay regularly. I wonder how many times during this parliamentary term such standards will come up, how much pressure will be put on us to speed things up, because it's already in such a hurry, and these authorities happen to only know it for five years, or two and three quarters of a year, but they've been arguing with each other all along. [[19.00 hours]] So much for notes in general. Then I would like to get to the part of the bank, which I think is unfortunately slightly misinterpreted, and Mr Ferjenčík is right here, who says that even today, for the purposes of tax proceedings, some things could be broken in relation to banks. There are really only partial enlargements, which we have dealt with quite extensively in the constitutional committee. It has not been clarified what other unique identifiers are. I have already made a point here, Madam Secretary, and I understand, of course, that the Minister can't do everything, that I wouldn't want from anyone, and certainly not from ministers, but apparently her office hasn't been able to answer it yet except that they're listed in other laws, so no one really knows what it is. However, there was a very large debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee, which, despite the certainly restraining position of the Ministry of Finance, led to the fact that most of the Constitutional Legal Committee supported the proposal that the data available to each tax office, to each tax administrator, should be excluded from the data on established services for the execution of payment transactions through remote access and their use and the identification of the facilities to which this approach is carried out. I know it seems like a very complicated sentence and that every time we say in the most serious crime, it's important to us what kind of computers and how it's managed. Frankly, of course, it is clear that bank accounts cannot be managed from another account either because it is ownership. It is not possible to manage from anywhere other than the person who is either the account owner or the account agent who has the right to dispose of it. No one else can undoubtedly deal with such a bank account, no doubt it can be because we canceled anonymous accounts, there can be no other person who appears somewhere in the Panaman Islands and has accounts. So this really means that if your tax administrator, including the municipalities we said were tax administrators at some point in time in order to collect local charges, he'll ask the bank's house to give him data on what IP address and on the basis of confirmation of what cell phone you're handling your account, so the bank will give it to him. I think it's completely unthinkable. It is absolutely unthinkable that such sensitive personal data should be issued without any clear instruction from the law enforcement authority: Yes, here I have a clear suspicion that a criminal offence is taking place, and I really need to try to find out who might be manipulating the account. But the idea that this figure really is comparable to where my account is, seems unthinkable to me, and there is a dramatic expansion of the original tax system. There is a clear extension beyond the scope of Directive DAC 5. Even the DAC 5 directive doesn't require such a thing. There has never been any such indication or requirement of such an indication. And so far, the Ministry of Finance has been like this - the secretary will always come forward and say, well, we could use the data to investigate the most serious crime. I am very glad that the majority was found on the constitutional law committee, including part of the members of the club YES, which feels as sensitive as I am that the real number of my computer and my mobile phone is not to be issued by the bank to the municipal authority, which administers my fees from the dog. I don't exactly have a dog. And that this figure may be deleted at the end of this House's vote. So much for the bank part. Then we are at the second part and that is the breach of the obligation of confidentiality with lawyers, tax advisors, executors, notaries and other professions, the trust in which they stand, by their very nature, against the state and defend the interest of a private person of any kind, whether a natural person or a corporation, in some kind of conflict with that state. And that's where the breach should always be very sensitively done. Of course, even all those European directives know that this is a high principle, and it was one of the things that was violated by the previous regime, that, of course, he nationalized lawyers, tried to turn them into maids of the regime. The right of defence is one of the very fundamental rights which allows me to live in society as a free citizen and to defend myself against too much bullying by the state. And if this right of defence, the right that if I confide in my defense attorney, it will be broken in simple, banal cases, I am heading into extreme danger. I don't know who remembers the legend of Jan Nepomucký, who was supposedly tortured for refusing to break the confessional secrets of his king's wife, and for that he was tortured. Those were church leaders who had the courage to be tortured. Today's attorneys may not be able to do it in most cases, but maybe some of them can, too. But it is this silence that is one of the essential things that should be protected in human life and protected by all the European regulations. And there's a situation where suddenly it's assumed that we can not only be within... The original proposal, which was designed by the Ministry of Finance, envisaged, in essence, a complete breach of confidentiality against the foreign request for a breach of confidentiality in all these professions, which are given to it. Honestly, with today's level of cooperation between tax and financial authorities in Europe, it's not that difficult to order that question from abroad, and based on the fact that the question will then come here to find out things that are otherwise covered by secrets. Finally, the situation has taken place, and I am glad that Mrs Válková, in cooperation with other Members of the ANO movement and other political parties, brings some compromise proposal, but it took a long time for the Ministry of Finance to do so before we convinced them that this breach of confidentiality is very dangerous for the functioning of the state as a whole. Mrs Válková brings a compromise proposal, which says - and which has been approved by the Constitutional Committee - which actually says two thesis. Firstly, the breach will not concern the information obtained before the application of this law, and secondly, it will be mediated by one central point on the part of the State, by the central financial directorate, and by one central point on the side of the chambers, all of which I have appointed here, as is the case today in the case of the FAO's applications. Is that an improvement? I have no doubt that this is an improvement, but it is not a complete implementation. My proposal, which I will then read to you, virtually. I will say in a detailed debate, it is aimed at really sticking to the DAC 5 framework, that is, there will be no change in the tax rules in this area, and it would only be possible that, in the tax law, this breach would only be possible in the case of the DAC 5 directive. I consider this to be a rather fundamental proposal, as we see and see the position of independent chambers, as we see and perceive confidentiality. And unfortunately, it goes into this silence today and every day, repeatedly, perhaps doctors could talk about eRecipes and other things. [[19.10 hours]] I think that, in the area of law, the confidentiality of things that should be respected in a much more fundamental way than today, and that it is not appropriate to go further than we are prescribed by the European directives, and it can only lead to violations of the rights of individual taxpayers. It may lead to a breach of confidentiality that we should not have broken. So I will then sign up in a detailed debate on the proposal, which I have announced here in the first round, which has also been discussed in the Committee on Budgets and in the Committee on Constitutional Law. It has not gained a majority there, but I think it is much better to reflect the wording of the DAC 5 directive and to implement it purely, not to extend the powers of the financial institutions, which the Minister still assures us of, and assures us so on the constitutional committee, it assures us here in the Chamber of Deputies that these institutions must always make fair decisions, conduct a proportionality test and other questions. When we get to know this in practice, we find that, of course, every state authority that has some authority is using it as far as possible, not just that it would test proportionality. These proportionality tests, if someone, then maybe the administrative court after him, often until the Supreme Administrative Court, often after three or four years, and only there say no, you were not allowed to, and the state will pay the enormous damage that was caused because some financial authority has broken off somewhere. So even here, I would be very careful not to extend those powers beyond what is absolutely necessary. So that we can operate in cooperation with other tax authorities throughout the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marek Výborný, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now be prepared with an application for this item. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many things that have already been said here, so perhaps we can still remember some things. The current government is in remission, and here we are fulfilling the obligation to transpose the European directive. Surely that is correct, it has nothing to do with the fact that the government is in remission, and it is her duty, because the deadline has passed, which is not the government's fault, but there have been objective reasons in the form of autumn elections. But what I consider disproportionate and unjustified is that, under the pretext of the need for the transposition of European legislation here in the proposed amendment to the Tax Code, there is a disproportionate breach of the secrets protected by banks, lawyers, notaries, tax advisors, auditors, bailiffs and other persons who carry out the identification and control of their clients under the rules for combating money laundering and terrorist financing in favour of tax administration. That is the problem, because the main objective of the amendment should, from my point of view, be to fulfil what is required of us by the European Union, and that is the transposition, the incorporation of the Council of the European Union's directive into our legal system. But the EU directive does not impose anything on us to use this matter to break professional secrecy in individual chambers. It should also be noted that this breach of professional secrecy can currently occur only on the basis of a judicial decision in specific cases of specific seriousness and under other control elements. Such attributes of law protection guaranteed by the constitutional order presented by the government amendment are completely lacking. The submitted amendment without the support of any framework of European law, which it claims to transpose, aspires that the knowledge gained under the AML Act should be applied in the ordinary administration of taxes, outside the framework of the directive and outside the framework of the AML processes. From my point of view, we are even touching the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, where in Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 4 is said to apply to the application of provisions on the limits of fundamental rights and freedoms, that their substance and meaning must be investigated. Such restrictions shall not be used for purposes other than those for which they have been established. Thus, if data under the AML Act were collected for the purpose of combating terrorism, respectively. against legalising the proceeds of crime, it cannot be used without any further use for the purpose of tax management, as it is now happening. We have several novels here. I would like to say that what has been approved and what is in the resolution of the constitutional committee from the pen by Mrs Válková is a compromise, an attempt at a compromise that will at least - and I was glad that the Minister at the constitutional committee's meeting eventually supported this compromise - can at least be something that will help the matter. But for myself and for the KDU-ČSL club, I say that we will support the amendments by Marek Benda, which clearly declare what I said at the beginning. It's about fulfilling the transposition obligation and not opening anything else up here. We consider this a dangerous precedent that could get us out of hand in the future. And by the way, in Slovakia, when DAC 5 was implemented, there were no other stickers that would break professional confidentiality, they were not accepted. So let's take an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u70	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues. I would have responded to my colleague Marek Benda's contribution to my own experience. That state actually, if we give it a chance, usurps significantly the law of the stronger. I know that from experience. And in a number of cases, standing up to the state is not easy at all. When a public institution is built, it is relatively manageable, because a public institution, for it, is not mostly an existential matter. However, if it goes to individuals and specific companies, companies, it can be an existential matter. I would say that no one here, for any reason that has been suggested here, is fighting the problem that has been raised here, but that this is fundamentally wrong. We don't want the state looking at our homes, looking at our hands. It's not possible! I'll tell you my experience. Whenever we sued the state, after all, with the Ministry of Finance, but of course the Minister wasn't there yet, we won the disputes in the highest courts. Those general courts simply succumbed to the fact that the state is simply right, because the state is a very strong opponent. And then it turns out it wasn't. And then, of course, the damages that have been caused there, of course, we wanted to, but in a number of cases, it can just be, for those people, the time before the general courts and, finally, the highest, it can be liquidation. I would like us to approach it this way. And please, let's not politicize the problem in the sense that whoever doesn't want it or who wants it, point out to us over there that we may be opposed to fighting tax evasion, to fighting criminals. It's not like that! But the point is that the baby doesn't spill the tub, because I don't see why everyone else should suffer from it, that they just stand chasing a group of criminals -- thank you, I'm done, Mr President -- who, of course, are salt in everyone's eyes. [[Time warning]] [[Thank you, too.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u71	Now, with a proper application for discussion, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to comment on a slightly different matter than the DAC transposition and the gold-plating that the Treasury is showing us here. Although I completely agree with my colleagues that breaking secrecy is a loss of privacy, a loss of protection of certain of our freedoms by the state. However, allow me, since the tax rules are already being opened here, to comment on one thing, and that is an uneven approach to compensation for tax entities resulting from the unlawful procedure of the tax administrator. [[19.20 hours]] In a detailed debate, I will present an amendment to which I want to heal the inequality before the law, which is that on the one hand, we have a tax entity that has been unduly charged with tax or fine and is entitled to compensation, and on the other hand, we also have a tax entity that has also been unduly charged with tax or penalty and is not entitled to compensation. The only difference is whether it's a divided or a separate tax administration. And compensation is compensation for the fact that the tax entity could not manipulate its money for some time and incurred economic losses. And how did this inequality arise? On 1. 7. The current amendment to the Tax Code came into effect in 2017 and this amendment also came into effect in the provisions of § 254 para. 1 Tax Code has been added a sentence that makes it impossible to claim interest on the unlawful conduct of the tax administrator on the amount paid by the tax entity on the basis of a faulty decision under the so-called "bad decision'. broken-down administration. Until then, the competent administrative authorities questioned the right of tax entities to the interest in question in these cases. These disputes were repeatedly settled by the Supreme Administrative Court, which, however, held the constant view that the tax entity was entitled to this compensatory interest even in the case of the so-called "compensatory interest'. broken down by tax administration. In the end, the State's response to this decision by the Supreme Administrative Court was completely reversed. Instead of starting to measure everyone the same way, this new sentence appeared in the tax system, which may speak in the unfair favour of the state budget, but it suppresses the rights of tax entities - unfortunately, the practice of recent years in the Financial Administration and the Ministry of Finance procedure. My amendment will consist in repealing this new sentence again. The tax entity, i.e. Entrepreneurs, it doesn't matter how the state divided administration and competence, whether it's divided or not tax administration. This is the only possible criterion for compensation to be justified or unjustified. With my amendment, I want to ensure that we return to normal state of affairs, in that if you receive an unjustified fine, you have the right to compensation. It seems the only right and only fair to me. I hope that you will then support this proposal in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let me read your apologies. Apologies to Mr Běhounek from 19 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons and apologies to Mrs Pavla Golasowská after 19 o'clock until the end of the meeting without giving any reason. Mr Jakub Michálek is duly enrolled in the debate next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to update one of my amendments concerning a certain imbalance that occurred in the draft law, both in the form in which the Government of the Czech Republic presented it and in the form in which it proposes to amend it by the Constitutional Legal Committee. The point is that the reasons for requesting information from professions such as lawyers, notaries, tax advisors, bailiffs and auditors are limited to the purposes of international cooperation in tax administration. There is therefore a paradoxical situation that lawyers and other professions must provide information for the purposes of protecting foreign taxes, but do not have to provide them for the purposes of national tax administration, even in the case of qualified tax crimes. I think that if the priority of this government is to collect taxes properly, it is essential that the Financial Administration has designated instruments for this quite small number of lawyers and other professional professions, but unfortunately, if they are involved in tax crimes, they can make quite a big mistake. I think that this is also contrary to the interests of the Czech Republic and its sovereignty, in order to defend the interests of the German or Austrian tax administration here and not defend the interests relating to the Czech Republic and the Czech budget. So, after consulting the Treasury, I've prepared a proposal that should straighten it out. It will be an amendment to the proposal prepared by Professor Válková and discussed by the Constitutional Committee, which will adjust it so that, for national purposes, of course, we do not want to be able to request information which is of a very sensitive nature for any case, as those examples of the administration of dog fees, etc., have been mentioned here, but really only for very qualified facts. In this respect, we decided to leave the limit of tax evasion of CZK 500 000, because the tax evasion of CZK 500 000 corresponds to the tax reduction crime under § 240 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 112 point (a) of CRR. (c) the Criminal Code. So this would equalize the situation, and if the tax administration had such serious suspicions, then there would be the same possibility as the proposed proposal already does in the case of international cooperation in tax administration. I will, of course, read the proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, Mr Jan Skopeček, to whom I hereby give the floor, is the last Member to sign up. [[This is Madam Secretary of State reporting.]] Such a factual remark, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u76	I'll take it quick, do I have the two minutes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u77	You've got two minutes, you're running.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u78	Then I won't name who I'm responding to, I'll take it one step at a time. I already declared yesterday on the Constitutional Legal Committee the support of Mrs Válková's proposal, which relates essentially to the exchange of information with the professional chambers at central level. I also supported the amendment, which I think is on the brink of the process, and on the edge of the implementation of the directive, so that it is only from the effectiveness of the amendment, because the directive does not count on any effectiveness. He's just counting on information to be provided if it exists. I very much welcome Mr Michálek's amendment because he totally hit the nail on the head. He said - why should it have a German tax administrator and not Czech? That's what this is all about. That's the whole dispute we've been having all year since we've been in the legislative process. I even noticed very much because I always listen with humility to all opinions and debate about § 57 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) if I am not mistaken, which was actually explained here by Mr Benda. And I noticed that the constitutional committee supported this amendment yesterday. And I'm very serious about the idea of supporting him at third reading. I would like to point out, please, because it has not been quite clear here, and you who are not completely immersed in detail, maybe not to notice - in any case, and that is already from the effective law today, from the so-called. The AML Directive, which is the law on money laundering, so it is now, is without prejudice to confidentiality, for example. lawyers involved in legal aid are concerned with criminal proceedings. This concerns a very narrow circuit, e.g. information on the mediation of transactions. So I welcome what Mr Michálek has read here, because it doesn't really lead to any other dispute. I would just like to correct Mr Munzar, Slovakia has completely, if I am not mistaken, the same adjustment as we are proposing. [[The President draws attention to the time]] [[The President again draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u79	Thank you. Let me read Mr Bartošek's apology, who apologizes from 19.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. And now, with proper application, Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u80	I thank you for your word and thank you to all who sit here honestly. I'm just wondering where there are dozens of others who voted here a few minutes ago about the need to negotiate by 21st hour, I see only a fraction of them here, but it doesn't concern you, thank you for taking tax legislation, which is one of the most important legislation ever, which we agree on, seriously. [[19.30 hours]] I have just a few political remarks about the novel we're discussing today. In my opinion, it is not random and we will meet with similar types of amendments in the following period. In my opinion, this is the continuation of the journey that has taken place in recent years, and the journey can be summed up in the idea that taxpayers, particularly entrepreneurs, especially the smallest ones, are potential suspects and crooks, and the state needs more and more possibilities and ways to spy on them, how to keep track of them and de facto 24 hours online, if any businessman happens to make a mistake in tax obligations. I don't think that's how we should look at entrepreneurs and business environments. I still think that entrepreneurs, and we may all agree on that, are those who feed this state, feed the central authorities of the government, feed this institution, and I feel that the way we have started treating them both on the side of the individual instruments that can be used against them, and on the other side of rhetoric, when they are actually considered by the rest of the public as tax scum, so that it is not entirely justified. Madam Secretary isn't here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u81	Madam Secretary will be right back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u82	I'll wait till he gets here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u83	I would suggest that you interrupt your speech. She apologized to me because she's been sitting here honestly the whole time. You ran away for a while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u84	I get it, he's been here a really long time, but I'll wait. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u85	[[The rapporteur isn't here either.]] I'm interrupting the meeting until 19.35. [[Meeting suspended at 19.31 until 19.35 pm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the adjourned meeting, and I will ask the Member who interrupted his speech to finish it. [[Objection that the Minister is not here again.]] Madam Secretary was just here. Now I really don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u86	Madam Secretary was here for a while, then she ran away again. I'd wait a little longer. I get it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u87	He's faster than I thought. [[Fun.]] If the secretary can hear me, I'd like to ask her to come to the O.R. [[After a while.]] He's coming! Mr. Ambassador, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u88	Excellent. I guess I've been really praising all of you colleagues for sitting here. As soon as I said it, it was empty by the coffee table. [[He's pointing to the news desk.]] I guess I'm gonna have to show less praise, even though I understand that, of course. And the secretary's been sitting here honestly the whole time, so I get it. Nothing. I don't know what the secretary heard. I said that we have the amendment in my opinion because the path we have taken in recent years continues and that it is a path that can be summed up in one thesis, namely that taxpayers, entrepreneurs, especially small ones, are potential suspects and crooks, and the state needs more and more ways to control them, and I am not afraid to say and use the word to pry. I don't think that's the way we should go. I think that the optimal boundary has actually been crossed a long time ago. I consider entrepreneurs to be those who feed this state, feed the central authorities, after all, feed this institution and all of us, and, in my opinion, both the concrete measures that have arisen against them, but also the rhetoric that makes them tax bad guys is really dangerous and cannot benefit this country. I wonder that the Minister of Finance, virtually. The Ministry comes up with this amendment at a time when we are learning, or when courts point out, in an ever greater number of cases, that the existing instruments available to the Financial Administration are likely to be abused or used in violation of the law, and we have information, at least from the media, that they also lead to the liquidation of certain private companies and entrepreneurs. And I confess, I can't imagine a greater failure by the state, where I don't know what else could happen, or what else could be called a failure by the state, when there's a repressive instrument that turns out to have led to an innocent person, companies that haven't broken the law, so that it leads to their liquidation. In my opinion, this is such a fatal discredit to the state as a servant, who we have here to serve our citizens who pay his taxes, that I cannot imagine a greater failure at all, and I do not understand, even if I do not blame the Minister, that she will not wait. I have information that an analysis is being carried out to evaluate court returns and to show whether the Financial Administration is actually acting in accordance with or not, but the court's decision is a court decision, and we must respect that. This says that, in a number of specific cases, the Financial Administration has probably exceeded its jurisdiction in violation of the law and leads to the liquidation of companies. [[19.40 hours]] I really can't imagine how anyone in this government can stand up to such a destroyed company and its owners and look them in the eye. I think it's harder to imagine a state failure than a company that hasn't done anything wrong. And at such a moment, in my opinion, it is appropriate not to come up with legislation that still allows and extends the powers of the Financial Administration. However, I agree, and I would like to stress this, with what the Minister said here during one of his speeches, namely that in the Financial Administration and in my opinion, real professionals, real decent people who have no ulterior intentions, do not want to liquidate companies, and I actually meet people there from my own experience who behave very professionally and that service is doing the right thing. However, even if only one of those Financial Administration employees were to end here and destroy companies that did not break any law, it is unforgivable in my opinion and it has to be dealt with, not to bring another amendment to the House, which is to extend the powers of the Financial Administration, which has these problems at the moment on its hunch, as the courts state. I will mention how this amendment is actually being discussed. It's been said many times. Indeed, this amendment goes beyond the implementation of European legislation. This, in my opinion, is a phenomenon that we often encounter here. I think - and let us think, if the Minister had come forward with this proposal without the obligation to implement it, if she only wanted to extend those powers, I think that it should be far more difficult to push for such a thing, and I very much warn that we should abuse European legislation to complement things that otherwise individually, perhaps the Chamber of Deputies would not accept, because it is a clear abuse, it is such a modern label, it is an abuse of European legislation to push politically something in quotation marks that we would not have the strength to do in another case. The second thing that annoys me and which appears more and more often is that the Ministry of Finance will bring or propose some version of legislation as in this case, and then the committees propose changes in such a way that the standard is ultimately more liberal. First, the Treasury will scare all the taxpayers, scare the lawyers, scare the banks, scare the notaries, tear down a huge debate, and as a terrible victory, it is considered that some complex amendment will be adopted, which will bring the law to some more normal limits that are more bearable. I understand that this is a negotiation strategy, that when you go into negotiations, you have to put maximum demands on the table and then, in some way, go down to some compromise option, but let's not make the legislative process a struggle of force, duel and negotiation. I think that from the first moment in time, the Treasury Secretary should bring the proposal he stands for. After all, it is so long that the Minister should not come to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies until then, unless he has discussed it with the main bodies and groups involved. But the practice is to write the sharpest possible version of the law, with it going to the first reading, and to the committees, everyone gets scared, starts a huge rush, starts a huge negotiation, what else will be taken away, what will be left to make some material out of it. And then everyone here is going to take a breather and vote for some compromise option. I think that this is not really the way to adopt legislation, especially on tax issues that are very serious. Another thing I am a little surprised about is the fact that both the previous government and the Minister were not part of that government throughout the parliamentary term, but very often and very easily there are laws going through in the tax area that bring more repression and more control. The D.O.D.'s great at that. There were a number of proposals, sometimes they were longer, sometimes briefly, but they were always finally approved. And I'm asking why with the same intensity and the same number here, I don't see laws that should simplify the tax environment. The YES movement about simplifying the tax environment has often spoken and spoken very rhetorically, but when we look at individual legislative standards presented, they are standards similar to this, i.e. standards that continue to tighten screws. I really want to ask, Madam Secretary, why aren't there proposals to simplify the tax system in the same number? We both agree, you in practical terms, I in theory, that the simpler the tax system is, the less the possibility of cheating, tax optimization, tax avoidance. And if you really want taxes to be collected and not cheated, that's the easiest way to go. And you have shown that you have the political strength, that you have the votes to adopt legislation in the tax environment in your opinion, so why aren't you demonstrating this political potency and activity even when we can simplify tax legislation? Unfortunately, there is no simplification, tax legislation with every law with which the movement, especially the ANO movement, comes to the Chamber of Deputies, further complicates and further shifts the force on the citizen's axis versus the state, the freedom of a citizen versus the power and power of the state, so every law brought by the ANO movement shifts from that freedom to that dominant, strong, powerful state, which, moreover, is not enough even when the courts show that the tax instruments are abused. I don't understand why you're going this way, why you don't want to simplify tax legislation so that there are no options - or to minimize options, because there will always be some to avoid tax obligations. So that's a whole series of questions. I think it is a really serious bill that we should spend enough time on it, and therefore I do not mind that we act within 21 hours. But I am really afraid that we can expect similar types of legislation in the coming period. We have heard from the Minister that he is preparing a dramatic simplification of the Income Tax Act. I'm asking why there isn't a law that the public would appreciate, the taxpayers, if it was written meaningfully. We both agree that if we look at the length of the Income Tax Act, we simply put the number of words in Word, and we compare the individual versions year after year, and we find that the tax law is complicated because each year is longer and longer, as either Members and Senators or individual interest groups can lobby other and other exceptions into that law. That would be a meaningful journey. I don't think anyone would be mad at you for not trusting you to come up with a law that makes people's lives easier. But if you were to break through the secrets of notaries and lawyers at the beginning of your ambition, I really don't think we should have that kind of legislation here, either, from the minister who's in remission. That's all. I believe that there will sometimes be a time when this Chamber of Deputies will renegotiate laws that will indeed mean reducing the tax burden, but also simplifying the tax system. So far, we're going after these elections, even after the last elections, so far we're still going in the opposite direction. Tax legislation is getting complicated, the state is swelling, it is getting expensive, because the Minister has to accept more and more officials at the Ministry of Finance, the taxpayers live under an increasingly strong whip, and I think it doesn't bring any good to this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with an application for debate, Mr Vojtěch Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u90	Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. It does not, after all, allow me not to go even further into the wannabe transposition of the DAC directive and not to mention some of the things that make me feel right, from this directive, from this proposal. I think that we should look at the amendments and laws not only technically, but also in value. And one of the values that our citizens rely on is medical secrecy and legal secrecy. [[19.50 hours]] Abuse of the DAC and AML directives to break this secret is a very dangerous game. We see it in other regulations. But what is a citizen to us, ladies and gentlemen, and what is privacy for us? This should be the fundamental human right that we should defend here in this grand House, and I think that the government should defend its citizens, and not fight them at all costs, seek tools to control them more, regulate them more, control them more, control them more. And it is this proposal for this amendment of the law, the tax code, that contributes to this. I, and not only myself, but perhaps the Czech Bar Association, thinks that this is an inadmissible intervention in fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed not only by the Czech Constitutional Order, that is, in particular, Article 10 and 36, but also by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular Article 8, according to which everyone has the right to the protection of personal data and these data must be processed correctly, for precisely defined purposes and on the basis of the consent of the person concerned or on the basis of another legitimate reason laid down by law. I would like to ask Mr President if he could turn down the room a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u91	So I guess we have different limits. I'll oblige you, I'll ask all colleagues to keep their voices down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u92	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum to the draft amendment refers in particular to the need for the transposition of Council Directive 2016/2258/EU, so-called DAC 5 amending Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. The amended directive, namely the DAC, aims to deepen administrative cooperation between the tax authorities of the Member States of the European Union in order to lay down clearer and more precise rules on legal cooperation between Member States and exchange of information between Member States on tax matters. Amendment to this Directive, which Member States are required to transpose until 31. 12. 2017 and which, according to the explanatory memorandum to the bill, was a motive for adopting new legislation is intended only to deepen administrative cooperation between tax authorities. The purpose of the directive and its last amendment, therefore, is to ensure, virtually. strengthening cooperation between tax authorities across the European Union and establishing an obligation to exchange information between administrations in the framework of their legal capacity. However, neither of these European legislation requires any burden to be passed on to private individuals. It is therefore obvious, and it has already been said here several times that the proposed amendment to the Tax Code goes far beyond the requirements of Directive DAC 5 and bears the features of so-called. gold-plating, which is the procedure of a Member State which treats the transposition of EU legislation into national law as minimum requirements under EU law. In the opinion of the Czech Bar Association, which I fully agree with, it is clear that this is a continuation of a trend where the tax administrator is unable or unwilling to provide the information necessary for tax administration of the tax entity and tries to obtain it elsewhere or to cross-check the data obtained. Since it is not the tax liability of the entity to which the confidentiality obligation is being breached in the present case, it is not the tax liability of the lawyer himself, notary himself, but his clients, so such an intervention is not admissible. The relevant passages of the amendments to the Tax Code concerning the breach of the confidentiality of lawyers and other designated entities refer to the Act on certain measures against the legalisation of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, the so-called AML Act. The aim of this law is to protect against terrorism and to legalise the proceeds of crime, i.e. to protect against an extremely serious form of crime. It should therefore certainly not be used for the procedure of the tax administrator for better tax collection from all citizens of the Czech Republic. I am very sorry that the Ministry with its massive apparatus, many hundreds of employees, is going beyond the European Union directive and we have to put it out here in 200 Members. I think it should be the primary priority of the government to do something for our citizens, not to abuse the European Union's directive for its own ideas, to present it to us in a straight line, as she thinks, and to defend, as I said here at the beginning, protection of privacy as a fundamental human right and not to go against the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, from the seat applied for, Madame. I'm just gonna ask you next time to report that the Prime Minister isn't here. But it's still your turn with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u94	Mr President, President Stanjura reported it, but someone else was chairing the meeting at the time, but I'm sure you have a note there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u95	Okay, well, in that case, my colleague didn't give me a note, so I hope we don't get into a fight about it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u96	We won't. I think this debate is actually very fruitful. There have been a number of comments, a number of new questions, a number of appeals to the amendments of some colleagues, who will accept or not accept the amendment for different clubs. Given that it would really be a shame to end such a fruitful debate today so that we cannot yet submit some amendments in the general and detailed debate, Mr President, so I would like to take a break on behalf of the Civic Democratic Party Club, with a duration of one hour and five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-018-004.u97	Well, thank you, Madam Vice-President. Apparently, everyone in the room is already at peace that's how we're gonna handle today's meeting. Given that the break goes beyond 21.00, I think it would be appropriate if I ended today's meeting, I will interrupt this meeting and we will continue tomorrow at 9.00, and this will be a point of written interpelation for the members of the government. Thank you all, have a good evening and see you tomorrow.
