ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u1	88. Annual report on the results of the Czech National Bank's management for 2017 / House printing 133/ - first reading I would now request your vote to agree with the presence of the Governor of the Czech National Bank. We should therefore vote on the consent to be present when discussing this point. If we can proceed to the vote, then? Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 123. Registered 176 Members, 166, versus zero. Result: Accepted. I would therefore like to welcome the Governor of the Czech National Bank Jiří Rusnok and start discussing the Annual Report on the results of the Czech National Bank's financial results for 2017, House printing 133. This report was submitted by the Czech National Bank in accordance with Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, and its resolution was delivered to you as House press number 133/1. I ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Karel Rais, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and also present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u2	Have a good day. As has been said, the Committee on Budgets discussed the annual report on the results of the Czech National Bank's management. After the discussion, which dealt substantially with the results of the Czech National Bank's management and methods of operation, and I assume that the Governor will be discussing details. I think the important thing is that a conclusion is that the report of the Czech National Bank contains all the important data. The auditor, Deloitte Audit, audited the enclosed accounts drawn up on the basis of Czech accounting regulations. The audit was carried out in accordance with the Act on Auditors and Standards of the Chamber of Auditors of the Czech Republic for Audit. Basically, there were no problems found there, so the rapporteur's position is positive. And if I may, Mr President, make a resolution?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u3	Yes. Please, rapporteur, give us a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u4	Thank you. So the resolution from the budget committee of the 8th meeting of 9 May 2018 to the Annual Report on the results of the Czech National Bank's financial results for 2017 is the House Press 133. After the opening words of the Deputy Governor of the Czech National Bank, Mr Tomšík, the report by Raise, and after the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic first takes note of the Annual Report on the results of the Czech National Bank's management for 2017, secondly recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt the following resolutions: The Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 47 para. 4 of Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, takes note of the Annual Report on the Economic Results of the Czech National Bank for 2017. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution, which I am doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u5	Well, thank you, rapporteur. I am now initiating a general debate and asking the Governor - yes, Mr Governor, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me brief you on the Annual Report on the results of the Czech National Bank's management for 2017. The annual management report is based on the financial statements, as the rapporteur has already stated. On this financial statement, the CNB issued an audit by Deloitte Audit, s. r. o., a statement "without reservations' and at the same time confirmed the compliance of both documents. I will try to mention the main factors that influenced the CNB's management last year. First of all, I must mention the decision of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank last April on the termination of the exchange rate commitment and the gradual return of monetary conditions to normal. Changes in monetary policy settings fundamentally affect the bank's management. The primary objective of the Czech National Bank and its constitutional task is price stability, so specific measures are always implemented regardless of their impact on their own management with regard to this priority objective. The gradual levelling of interest rates, or their gradual increase in the direction from zero, on which we remained for many years, brought the costs of sterilization of banks' free liquidity amounting to approximately CZK 4 billion. However, the repreciation of the domestic currency after the release of the exchange rate commitment, i.e. the gradual appreciation of the Czech koruna in relation to the euro, played a crucial role. The impact on the CNB's economy in the form of unrealized, emphasising unrealistic exchange rate differences was, of course, enhanced by the size of foreign exchange assets, foreign exchange assets of the Czech National Bank. Accounting exchange rate losses amounted to CZK 271 billion in 2017. As regards the return on managed foreign reserve portfolios, the weighted average was 1,13 per annum, which is better than the two previous years. At the same time, a higher volume of foreign reserve assets allowed their diversification to be extended. The provisions that are not immediately necessary for the implementation of monetary policy were therefore invested in assets with a longer investment horizon and, on average, also with a higher yield. The total revenues of the foreign reserve assets amounted to CZK 32 billion. The funds earmarked for the operation of the central bank itself have been spent with professional care and an emphasis on economy. This was also confirmed by the outcome of the Supreme Audit Office's audit action. In total, the CNB reported an accounting loss of CZK 243 billion for 2017. The remaining part of the outstanding loss of 183 billion will remain in the bank's balance sheet until its full repayment. In the same way, the central bank treated accounting losses in the past. However, the fact that the central bank has an unreplaced accounting loss does not affect the fulfilment of its main objective or monetary policy decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u7	Well, I thank the Governor and see if anyone else is joining the general debate. Yes, so Mr. MP Skopeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u8	Good afternoon, thank you very much. I certainly agree that the aim and task of the Czech National Bank is not to make a profit. Yet the loss that appears here is dramatic, more than 200 billion crowns. We agree that this is caused by the abandonment of the commitment, the strengthening of the crown. And I would like to ask the Governor how the losses will develop in the coming years, because along with the appreciation of the crown, we can assume that the accumulation of hundreds of billions of losses will continue. And there is also a dispute among economists about the extent to which the loss of the Czech National Bank is an economic problem in itself or mere accounting matters. I'm not that calm in that sense. After all, if the Czech National Bank made a profit, it should be recalled that this would be the income of the state budget. So just this aspect says it's not a completely economically neutral thing. Nevertheless, I would like to ask how... or how the Governor imagines, to what extent the accumulation of losses that will proceed in the coming years is sustainable and how the Czech National Bank intends to liquidate it in the coming years. However, under the remark, or before the parentheses, I say that it is clear to me that the role of the Czech National Bank is not to make a profit, that this is the implementation of monetary policy. We could discuss this here for a whole series of hours, maybe we could agree on something, probably not in a lot, but that's not the merit of my performance. I really want to ask how much the Governor considers this to be a problem and what side he is leaning towards in this economic debate. Whether he also considers it a not entirely neutral matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u9	Well, thank you, and I'll ask the governor - yes, he's interested in a performance. Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this thing is not new. The Czech National Bank had a similarly high accumulated loss, in relative terms even higher, essentially over the past 15 years before actually the onset of the financial, later economic crisis in 2008, 2009. This loss, an unrealized accounting loss, arises in our terms as a result of a model of our transformation of the economy in the sense that the Czech Republic is catching up with an advanced Western European or developed world economy model, which is based on faster growth of gross domestic product, or overall performance of the economy, but at the same time was also in the past and now the convergence model is based partly on the nominal appreciation of the Czech koruna's exchange rate against the reference reserve currency, that is, the euro. So, just as in previous years - in this case, if the central bank obviously has certain foreign exchange reserves, and I consider the situation where the central bank has relatively small open economies with its own currency, whose exchange rate is shaped in the market in the regime essentially by the free float of the exchange rate, I consider the relatively solid amount of foreign reserve assets to be needed. We have verified this many times in history in the case of similar types of economies, that if such an economy does not have sufficient foreign exchange reserves, then the risk of risking excessive volatility of such a exchange rate is extraordinary. [[14.30 hours]] But if, at the same time, there is a nominal appreciation of the koruna exchange rate, in our case the koruna, and we are now one of the countries with high foreign exchange reserves, then of course the unrealised accounting losses in the central bank's balance sheet are accumulated. These losses will accumulate, or they will last as long as this nominal appreciation of the crown continues. As you have noticed, for example, this year's nominal strengthening is much more moderate. It has even stopped in recent months and there has been some short-term reverse trend. So, for example, the loss of this year's progress is virtually zero, or has even turned into a slight plus in recent months, so there is no loss. So there's no deepening. However, it is not the primary economic result for us, but the primary is price stability, monetary stability, and financial also in the next course of our tasks that we have today. The loss will gradually be compensated as, of course, revenue generated by the bank's nature will be generated, which means so-called cutting-edged. So that's essentially the income that the central bank makes from the monopoly on the issuance of cash. Of course, foreign exchange reserves also generate a certain income. As I said, last year it was 32 billion of that revenue. As interest rates rise, not only in the United States, but also gradually in other parts of the global economy, the returns of our foreign exchange reserves will also grow. Of course, there are some other, less significant sources of income from the central bank. So, as in the past, the loss was paid for after a long period of accumulation of those losses during the period when the exchange rate went up in the course of the economic crisis, which was a natural response to the situation in which we found ourselves, then of course the chosen policy of our type of quantitative easing contributed to this, that is to say, the use of the exchange rate commitment, so the loss was actually erased very quickly within two or three years. There was even a reserve fund. And just as it will be in the nearest perspective, it will be difficult to estimate exactly the period, the years, in the period that awaits us. Again, I stress that I belong to those who believe that the issue of losing a central bank is largely theoretical and virtual. We have long held this position, even in a controversy with the European Central Bank. If that were not the case, many other central banks would have been in some real economic problem long ago, but this did not happen. This did not happen even in those times when central banks dramatically increased their balance sheets, and many of them also recorded relatively sensitive accounting losses in part-years, or even cumulatively. So from the point of view of the public finances, I don't see any problem here either. Because, yes, the Czech National Bank would contribute to public finances in a situation where all its reserves should be filled. That, of course, is not the case at the moment with accumulated loss. And the question is whether this will be the case in the near future, rather not. On the other hand, it must be said that, fortunately, the Czech state budget is not dependent and is not even, I would say, addictively linked to this dose of subsidies from the central bank, as is the case in some other countries, I think unfortunately. Because it's income or potential income, which is very, very unstable, especially at the time we live in, when central banks are often forced to intervene, let's say, with unorthodox instruments compared to those of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u11	Thank you, Mr. Governor. And I'll look in the diaper. Do you wish to respond? So, Mr. MP Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u12	Thank you very much. I would agree that for an open economy such as the Czech Republic, there is, of course, a certain level of foreign reserve security and it is right to have it. However, and this did not happen here, it should be recalled that we currently have a record amount of foreign reserve assets based on the way the Czech National Bank tried to keep the course at the fixed level. It's nothing personal. Actually, the governor didn't come until after the commitment was over. He wasn't involved, so it's nothing personal. However, I consider the current amount of foreign reserve assets to be really exceptional even in an international context and there are many economists who really consider the huge amount of foreign reserve assets to be a problem. And when the Governor here says that, of course, the Czech National Bank invests in various assets here, that would open up a number of questions about what assets the Czech National Bank invests in. Because then, of course, the result is also given by how financial markets will move, and we do not know, unfortunately, whether the Czech National Bank invests in safe bonds or goes into more risky events. But what I wanted to ask you is what I think is important is that even though these investments are probably generating some revenue, I'm afraid that the volume of foreign reserve assets and the movement of the exchange rate that is likely to be ahead of us will generate far more losses than I think they are capable of generating assets. The movement of the course itself, in my opinion, will cause huge losses in the coming years. And that's why I asked you, until when and how you see the projection of the multibillion-dollar losses in the years to come. And that's where I'm afraid the proceeds of these assets won't help us to make the losses smaller.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u13	Well, yes, the governor wishes to perform. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I am very sorry to most of the Chamber of Deputies that I think I am abstaining from more important tasks. However, I cannot leave without the response of the honourable Member, because it would seem that the central bank is some irresponsible institution that is sort of playing with the Czech crown and huge foreign reserves. I would like to stress that these foreign reserves arose as a result of our monetary policy during the financial crisis, when, as a small open economy, we chose the way to maximize monetary policy by using the exchange rate as a primary instrument. First of all. We have created a situation in favour of the Czech economy that has clearly benefited from the recovery of the Czech economy and has made a significant contribution to the fact that this country is richer than it was today. Two. Yes, our foreign exchange reserves are also high in international context. However, there are countries that have similar heights or higher ones, such as Switzerland. I don't know, I didn't hear a debate like someone was blaming the Swiss Central Bank for having too high foreign exchange reserves. By the way, what would a number of economies of our development grade give roughly if they had as large foreign exchange reserves as we do. [[14.40 hours]] Three. We invest foreign reserves according to very strict rules. Basically, they are today... The basic information about their investment is in the report. We publish it every year. Basically, the foreign reserve assets are now divided into two parts. One highly liquid, conservative, which is actually ad hoc for use in any necessary monetary policy operations. The second part is more yield-oriented with a longer horizon, but still while maintaining very strict rules in terms of credit, market and other risk categories. So that's another thing. For the next one. It would be irresponsible to estimate the outcome of the management of very volatile global financial markets for a small open economy now with some long perspective ahead. That's why I won't do it. It may happen that we will have losses already this year, because for some reason, the koruna, like other currencies of similar economies, will not strengthen, or we will have a minimum loss for this year. And it can happen that it won't. But definitely the prospect of a gradual payment of the loss is clear and there is no problem. By the way, if anyone argues that this is somehow hindering our possible entry into the European Monetary Union, which I certainly do not suspect to the Member that he would be performing here for this purpose, the Slovak Central Bank has been a member of the euro area for many years, ten years, and still has a loss outstanding, nothing is happening. So these things are under control. We're informing them transparently. We have no reason to hide anything. And, of course, we are very well aware of the responsibility associated with the management of foreign reserve assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u15	Thank you. Mr Skopeček wishes to respond. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. By the way, I have an actual application from you, but since you're the only one, I don't have to limit you for two minutes, so if you insist on actual, it'll only be two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u16	I'm gonna take a little nap. I hope there's been a misunderstanding. I didn't try to accuse the Czech National Bank of some irresponsibleness. I think I got off very correctly. And I'm a little surprised by the reaction. So do I, Mr. Governor, be sure you're not stalling. I think that when the Czech National Bank generates a loss of 240 billion, it is worth more than just making a formal report from the budget committee resolution. I think it's a serious matter and it's supposed to have its place here. So on my part, it wasn't any indication that you were irresponsible. Although I'd like to ask what shares and what assets you've invested those foreign exchange reserves in. I think that would be an interesting discussion. If you're able to uncover it, maybe I'd like to. But in no way on my part is it trying to criticize the Czech National Bank, virtually. I also commend the Czech National Bank for how quickly it was able to release monetary conditions after the onset of the economic crisis after 2008. However, I am critical of the way in which she committed and fixed the Czech crown. It's just my expert dispute with you. After all, I said before the parentheses that you came back to that post after this policy was implemented. I do not think the Czech economy has helped fix the course. It has not helped at least in the sense that it has increased the technology that our businesses would need. We know that our capital amenities are not exactly what we would boast about, and that we want more technologically equipped companies, that we want products with higher added value to be produced in the Czech economy. And that, without any better technology, which has made the crown fixation more expensive, is not going to happen. So I have a different opinion in that sense. But believe me, and please don't accuse me of accusing you of being irresponsible. It's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u17	Thank you. If I look around the O.R., I don't have any... Mr. President of the Stanjura Parliamentary Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u18	Thanks for the word. I'm sure, Mr. Governor, you're not stalling. I'm sure you're not stalling. That is why we have placed the point firmly in order to know and pay due attention to it. I know we may have been able to debate some details on the budget committee, but we consider it serious material. And it is a good thing that this is commented and argued in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like you to be able to do so now, and if you can't do so now, so that we can get a written answer for, for example, the members of the Committee on Budgets on a question that my colleague Mr Skopeček had just asked. That means where you invested it. Whether you were shopping or whether it was some stock. I don't know. I understand you don't need to have a complete inventory. I totally understand that. So if you're not able to say it today, I'd ask you to get written information. And I think that if colleagues and colleagues don't fight back, it will be enough if the members of the budget committee get it. And then, if necessary, we'd do it in plenary. But at this point in time, the Committee on Budgets seems sufficient to me. On the other hand, if we go back to the total numbers, it's more like a comment. It sounds very good to say you have an auditor's report. I understand that. That's kind of an honest answer. But can you imagine any audit firm that will not audit the Czech National Bank without reservations? I don't exactly. I do not know what would have to happen in order for the CNB to have any reservations in the auditor's report. I understand that it has to be formally. But it's actually kind of smiling. And maybe it's also an incentive for the Minister of Finance. It seems strange to me that a commercial entity is auditing a central bank. I don't know what it's for, and if it's not an unnecessary obligation. When you think about how the market works and what position private audit firms have there without reducing the professionalism of these companies. But the loss was quite high. Yes, we can say, and the governor is right about that, that it is not unusual, that it is common in other central banks. Maybe it's a little hypothetical. But would the loss be so high, Mr. Governor, if you ended the exchange rate commitment earlier? Isn't it? I would be interested, because especially in the last few months, when you were still holding that exchange rate commitment, and it is true that you were not yet a member of the Bank Board when the Bank Board decided on that exchange rate commitment, especially in the last few months when you were holding it, so the expenses were enormous. I don't have it in front of me right now, but maybe you could inform us about how it was in each of the years, what kind of expenses the Czech National Bank had with maintaining the exchange rate commitment from the moment of publication to the moment of termination. And if memory doesn't deceive me, especially in the last few months and weeks these expenses have been quite high. So if by any chance you don't see them today as a mistake that you didn't end them earlier, because you could have influenced them, unlike the beginning and the decision on the exchange rate commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u19	Thank you. The governor wishes to respond. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is not difficult to deliver a more detailed report. She is in our annual report, which I presume also on the web is a large part of the management of foreign reserve assets as part of the annual report, which is not this particular report on the results of the management. And, as far as possible, we are certainly able to deliver a more detailed report to our fellow Members in the Committee on Budgets and to have a debate with them on this subject. Of course, we will never go into complete detail, it does not make any central bank in the world, even in this direction we are even more open. For the record, yes, we have less than 10 percent of the foreign exchange reserves in shares. In shares, that part of the foreign reserve assets has been held for about ten years. It's nothing new. It was decided long before I came to the central bank. It was a matter that greatly helped maintain the positive returns of foreign reserve assets at a time of very low interest rates, which we are still experiencing to some extent. As to the speculative question of whether the loss would be greater or smaller according to the deadline for the termination of the exchange rate commitment, I would like to say that we have decided not to repeat certain negative experiences made by our Swiss colleagues about a year and a half before us, and this means not to surprise the market in any way, because the market surprise has proved to lead to huge volatility, in the case of Switzerland, to a short-term dramatic strengthening of their currency by a small tens of percent in the short term. And that was something we certainly didn't want to let our economy experience. [[14.50 hours]] That is why we have agreed to a transparent notification model where, at the very least, we will accept the commitment, i.e. There will be no hasty surprise move on our part, and we have, of course, sent a clear signal to those markets. This contributed indisputably - and it is part of international evaluation today, and it does not happen very often that the Czech Republic should be on the front page of the Financial Times, even in a positive sense, with an ironic remark that perhaps Swiss central bankers could learn lessons in Prague. This contributed significantly to the fact that the exit from the exchange rate commitment, which lasted much longer than the original assumptions, in the end about three and a half years, was completely smooth, without dramatic fluctuations, without unexpected movements of the rate, respectively. the exchange rate of our currency. Of course you have to pay for that transparency in some way. And we paid for it in the form of a certain volume of foreign reserve growth, which, of course, increased dramatically towards the end of the fixed, so-called hard commitment, i.e. around the end of the first quarter, however, experts say that this is not relevant at all. But this does not have anything to do with the announcement of the deadline, because if the deadline had not been fixed, the firm commitment, the markets would have reacted in a way that would have placed more or less similar amounts of investment into the Czech koruna in the previous period, they would not have accumulated it until the conclusion of the commitment, but would have done so in the longer period during the commitment. Finally, the result in terms of the volume of foreign exchange interventions would be roughly the same. I would also like to point out that there is no expenditure or any money spent because it is an investment. This means that we received the euro, or reserve currency, for the Czech koruna, which we issue exclusively as the central bank of this state, in the exchange rate that was then valid. This means no money spent, and of course we have the euro, we have invested mostly in government papers by countries that have the appropriate rating. In our case, they are essentially only AAA countries, or exceptionally AA and, of course, other instruments that we invest in. So there's no money left, on the contrary, the money's making some more revenue. So we can, of course, have a long expert debate on this matter, whether the commitment should have been set faster, terminated earlier, whether it should have been corrected up and down during the course of the process, but basically it is a debate that never has any definite arbiter. All macroeconomic and monetary analyses show that the monetary policy of the central bank, the Czech National Bank, was adequate during that period from 2013 to 2017 and was successful and helped recovery and significant recovery of the Czech economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u21	Thank you and the President of the ODS Club, Mr Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u22	First, I will respond to the governor's conclusion. We both know, Mr. Governor, that there is a difference in professional opinion. Some claim that this has helped to consolidate and increase the performance of the Czech economy, others argue otherwise, so it is not as if it is a 100% accepted expert opinion. That is simply the difference between the views of the authorities, the professional authorities who judge this issue. First of all. Secondly, don't be mad at me, say that you--I understand that these are investments, maybe I've made a bad statement, so I'm sorry, but say "that's an investment, she's making money" and at the same time, the loss of 243 billion, it's not going to go completely together, the two sentences. If the money's so well-invested, they're making money, then why are we losing so much? I don't even want an answer so that we don't go into too much of a debate, but I don't think that's the relevant argument in this debate. So let's think about how high the investment was and how much it actually makes and what the return on the investment is. I think that's an honest debate. And not to say it's carrying something. But it also brought along some investment, some investment costs. So we can't say that we invested because - we didn't invest to make money. That's what you said in your opening words, and I think we understand each other. You called my question speculative. Okay, she's partially speculative, I admit it. But at the same time, you responded with speculation. You actually said - I'm paraphrasing it a little bit - it doesn't really matter when we ended the exchange rate commitment. Anyway, the rest of you would have acted the same way. This is not entirely in line with the way you commended the Czech National Bank for how well it prepared it, how slow the transition was. And I understand the Swiss experience. I think it corresponds to the reality that the Švýcar failed to end their commitments and a number of expert states were published about it. And I think it's a good thing that if someone goes blind or down a blind street, we avoid it and we don't do it. But I don't think the arguments really add up. I admit it's a speculative question, or partly speculative, but from our point of view, many of us, the investments, to use your vocabulary, have been enormously high in the last few months. Enormously tall. And you actually said that in your performance a while ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u23	Thank you. And Mr. Governor, do you wish to respond? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u24	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Of course, I don't take anybody's opinion, really, with monetary policy, it's kind of like medicine. Even there are often several opinions on some complex problem. And I apologize to doctors for messing with them, but at least what I read as a layman isn't said anywhere either: this is one truth and never any other. He just can't be with a complex problem. Of course, time will tell. And I'm trying to quote some sources. So far, what I have seen, the evaluations, hopefully relatively objective, the International Monetary Fund, some other significant theoretical workplaces, but also the analytical workplaces of commercial institutions are all expressing themselves on this period of monetary policy of the CNB, which we are talking about with great respect and with a positive assessment. One more, one last point. I know that this is very difficult to explain intuitively, and it may not be completely understandable for ordinary listeners, as it is possible that foreign reserve yields are both loss and loss. The whole problem is that we are talking about accounting loss expressed in Czech crowns. Because, of course, as a Czech institution, we keep accounting according to Czech rules and in Czech currency. And since we have the vast majority of our assets in foreign currencies, the very dominant part of our balance sheet, 90 times percent, is the foreign exchange reserves that are in foreign currencies, this seeming dichotomy may exist. We just have returns, positive returns on the entire balance sheet, from the very dominant part of our balance sheet, i.e. foreign exchange reserves, because there are some positive returns, although not somehow overwhelming at the moment, because we live in a time of very low interest rates and for conservative investments that prevail in our country, we cannot expect any speculative returns. But after the conversion of the balance into CZK, of course, at a time when the exchange rate of the koruna changes in favour of the koruna, we have an accounting loss. That's the whole magic of the problem. So no money has been lost, foreign reserves are properly invested, they are income, but of course after the transfer of our balance sheet to the Czech methodology in Czech currency we have accounting loss. It's a miracle. And there's nothing miraculous about it. No one's done anything fundamentally wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-001-088.u25	Thank you for the show, and I'm asking if there's any interest in the reaction. He's no longer interested in the reaction. So I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I see that I do not, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there is an interest in the final words - the Governor, the rapporteur. No. We will proceed to a debate in detail, which I have no application for, so I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for any final words. There's no interest, I'm reflecting it. So we will proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I suppose we all remember what the Committee rapporteur, Mr Karel Rais, suggested. I'll call the MPs to the ballroom. I'll get them... I think we can proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of the resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 124, 179 Members registered, for 123, versus zero. The result was adopted, the resolution was approved. Thank you, Mr. Governor. I'll see you in about a year. I'll proceed to the next point. And we have a fixed point here. This is about
