ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u1	116. Oral inhalation We will proceed in oral interpelations according to the winning order. Interpelations to the Prime Minister were drawn with the participation of the verifier. Mrs Maříková withdraws her intervention, so we will begin by interpelling Mrs Kovářová. Since the Prime Minister is duly excused, you will receive an answer within 30 days. And the second will be Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u2	Dear Prime Minister, in the last parliamentary term, I have repeatedly intersected the Minister of Industry and Trade and Prime Minister Sobotka on European money for high-speed internet. I asked them several times. Fourteen billion is not enough money, and I thought it was crucial for rural development. The answers were pretty dull. They were all in the spirit that everything was okay, everything was running as it should, the money would run out. It even made me feel that my fears were completely unnecessary, so convincing government officials, whom you were the first Vice-President, were. But then the first delay started to appear, the first problems, and it turns out my concerns weren't entirely odd. Looks like we're not running out of 14 billion on high-speed Internet. I have a number of questions. What will your government do about it? What is the current estimated fate of this money? How many don't run out at all? And who is responsible for this? How are you going to deal with this? And what lessons will you learn to discuss the new programming period? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. And, as I have already sent, the Prime Minister will respond under the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Now, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mrs Dolínek will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, there has been a subsidy title for cooperation. According to the information available, subsidies for innovative projects are distributed non-transparentally, with subjective opinions of the jurors and who cooperates with whom are decisive. According to Hospodářské noviny, the Food Chamber was involved in setting up such a system, whose President Miroslav Toman should occupy the post of Minister of Agriculture in your future government. Three years later, CZK 3 billion were distributed from the scope of cooperation. The highest possible allocated support for one company is CZK 75 million, for which the holding companies and companies, which have representatives in the Board of Food Chambers, are primarily reaching. Only in the final round for this amount reached five businesses. Among them, for example, Madeta's innovation in cheese production or Vodňany poultry from Agrofert holding for innovation in cutting and packaging poultry meat. Certainly not small or medium-sized companies for which these subsidies are intended. On the other hand, Sonnentor from Čejkovice, South Moravian, for example, did not achieve any subsidies for the development of new products and technologies at all. Since the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, which administers everything around agricultural subsidies, their project has by far got the most points. Dear Prime Minister, why do the Rural Development Programme, which is intended mainly to help small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas, draw millions on the development of new products and technologies of a large food company, which is often one of the market leaders, as well as industrial feed producers? According to the information found by Hospodářské noviny journalists, there are suspicious connections between the Food Chamber, Food Service, and a significant link is Mr Toman's person. Are you going to check the allocation of subsidies from this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u5	Thank you for keeping the time to interpel. I repeat that within 30 days you will receive a written reply under the Rules of Procedure. The words will be taken by Mr Dolínek. Again, my colleague, I state the apology of Mr Jaroslav Kytýr. Now you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u6	Dear Prime Minister, I would like to interpel you on the state's share in financing significant transport investments in the territory of the capital city of Prague. In the media, in recent days, weeks, months, I can watch government exits in demise to the regions of the Czech Republic. However, in Prague, apart from the fact that the government is legally carrying out its work here in its ministries, I did not see this government at the Office of the Government. The capital city of Prague is a key transport hub of its nature, as was formed by the state's transport policy in the past decades of the whole republic, both by road and by rail. 1.3 million inhabitants of the Czech Republic live in Prague and hundreds of thousands of other people come to Prague every day to work, to schools, to culture, to meetings. For example, according to the latest survey prepared by ČVUT for Uber company, up to 300 000 cars from outside Prague residents of the Czech Republic regularly arrive in Prague. The capital Prague has financed key transport investments so far in the last 25 years without the assistance of the state, whether it was the subway, the construction of the city circuit, the P+R parking lot, other important things, the development of tram networks. Really, however, these investments are far from serving only the Pražan, but, as I said, by nature, as the network was built, as the authorities of the state administration are located, Prague works for the whole Czech Republic. In recent days, the sustainable mobility plan of the capital city of Prague by 2030 has been completed and presented to the public. This plan was drawn up under the supervision and methodology of the Ministry of Transport. I have it here with me, I will allow myself to hand it over to the Vice Prime Minister, since the Prime Minister is not here. [[He's handing over a copy to the Vice Prime Minister.]] And I can tell you that three years have been working on this plan -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u7	Mr. Ambassador, but you've run out of time for oral questioning, I can't let you finish your speech. The Prime Minister will answer in general because I have to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Other Members also have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u8	Okay, I'll just say one last question. Please, I'm sorry. [[- So please, I hope...]] The question is whether the Prime Minister is prepared to sign up to finance things such as the city circuit, metro D and other important communication and parking options in Prague and will not leave Prague alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u9	There. And now, Mrs Richterová, and a colleague, Mr Baxa, will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u10	Thank you for the floor. I have questions about the Prime Minister in the demise of the upcoming social housing law and, in particular, questions about clearly insufficient inter-resort cooperation. It is about how really smooth and intensive cooperation is ensured in the preparation of the Act on Social Housing and what is its course in particular. We, for pirát, participate in committee meetings where this law should be discussed, and especially in gremia. And it seems that although it is declared that the guarantor of the social housing law is the Ministry of Regional Development, but the MMR often communicates and it turns out that financing with the Ministry of Finance was not planned. Or it is only slowly entering those meetings by the Ministry of Justice that reminds us of the various limits of competence. [[14.40 hours]] Furthermore, the MPSV is currently proposing a rather fundamental amendment to the Act on State Social Support and the Act on Material Needs. This is closely related to the social housing law, but this preparation is not linked. It is unclear, and clearly it would be necessary to clearly establish the competence and role of the various ministries in the process, analyse the whole set of regulations concerned, set a timetable for any adjustments and coordinate the implementation of all the departments involved. It is, of course, a difficult task, we are aware of this in the pirát, but since the social housing law can only work in the context of other standards, otherwise it could be just a subsidy programme, it is hugely important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u11	My colleague, the time has passed for interpellation. The Prime Minister will respond under the Rules of Procedure Act within 30 days. Before I give the floor to my colleague Bax, I will apologize to Mr Jiří Strýček from 15.30 until the end of the day and from Rozvoral Mr. Mr Martin Baxa now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u12	Thank you for the floor. My interpellation to the Prime Minister in resignation concerns regional education. During the visit to the government in the Demission in the Region of Vysočina on 28 May Andrej Babiš said: Perhaps we should see if the real industrialists and agricultural workers and health workers are supposed to be under the county, that it might be better under ministries, which would be more motivated to deal with the lack of professions, and especially today there is a shortage of all professions. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. So it's a literal transcription of monitoring, and I think it makes it clear what it is. The Prime Minister seems to be heading towards a fundamental reform of the existing system of establishing functions for individual schools. Just to remind you, just in the early 1990's, individual schools were under the gesychic ministries, since 1996 they have been established by the school authorities, which were under the authority of the Ministry of Education, since 2000 after the reform of the local government, the secondary schools have been established by the regions. And this system has been going on for almost 20 years. In addition, there is currently a very ambitious reform of regional education funding. Therefore, in this context, given the radicality of the change that the Prime Minister was referring to, I would like to ask him the following questions: Whether the government is currently preparing this competence change, i.e. transfer of the establishment functions of certain types of secondary schools from regions to relevant ministries. What specific types of schools are covered by this proposal and under which ministries schools should be moved. Thirdly, what is the content of this possible change, i.e. in which it would be more advantageous for schools to be set up by gestive ministries. Fourthly, how this possible change is compatible with the current planned reform of regional education funding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u13	Thank you. We will continue with Mr Mikuláš Peksa's speech, Mr Jakub Janda will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u14	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, at present, the government in practice has supported the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on copyright in the single digital market without greater reservations. You had the opportunity to vote against, and ultimately, thanks to our resistance, the proposal passed. Why is that a problem? Articles 11 and 13 are also part of this Directive. Article 11 directly introduces extended content sharing protection, which also leads to a link tax and significantly affects the work of anyone who needs to refer to other sources in their work. Similarly, these provisions undermine the key unity of the digital market, since some countries have already declared that they want to determine the conditions themselves if they are to be introduced. Article 13 is then a direct threat to the freedom of each of us, since it is practically an attempt to directly force Internet platform operators to filter all the content that someone uploads and let them be held responsible for it. In practice, they would be forced to introduce automatic filters, which would bluntly decide what they can and must not be on the Internet. And anyone who wouldn't bring them in would face lawsuits. The Czech Republic slept through the previous big change, because our state was not prepared for the introduction of GDPR due to the government's laxity. We all feel the effects of this event. We are currently going into much bigger problems, and I therefore ask why the Czech Government has supported the directive in its current form, including Articles 11 and 13, and how the Czech Government is preparing for the application of this directive. And also, why this time it will be better than the preparation of GDPR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u15	Thank you, Mr Mikuláš Peks. I also repeat that the answer will be within 30 days, according to the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mr Jakub Janda, a colleague of Černohorský will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u16	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, in the coming months, the amendment to the Local Charges Act will be heading towards us, which de facto opens up a fundamental political question: how will the Czech Republic continue to address the shared economy of the Airbnb type. Shared accommodation services are experiencing huge development today. According to the data that Airbnb has officially provided, this market has grown more than 28fold in the last 4.5 years alone. In some cities, Airbnb's capacities are now almost comparable to those provided by traditional hotels and guesthouses. And that it's not a student backpacker thing that uses so-called. bed and breakfast, everyone who deals with this issue today knows. Shared economy is just hard business today. In Prague, the most often offered type of accommodation are the whole apartment houses and they participate in the total capacity of almost 3/4. The exception is not providers who own dozens of flats or even home. We must therefore stand up for hoteliers who are murmuring about unequal business conditions. Only in a classic hotel business has the authority to send up to 42 types of checks to the hotelier, whether they relate to hygiene, building standards or accounting regulations. So equality in front of the law is not only very limping. I ask you, Prime Minister, will you deal with this situation, or will it wait for hoteliers, like taxi drivers, to scream in the squares and block traffic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u17	I thank Mr Jakub Jand. Before I give the floor to Lukáš Černohorský, I will read the apologies received by the President of the House. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes until the end of today's working day, and Mr PutPustějovský also apologizes at 16 o'clock. Now, Mr Lukáš Černohorský, Mr Dolínek will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u18	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, a month has passed since your visit to the Moravian-Silesian Region. During it you also visited the company OKD. After a meeting with representatives of OKD in the media from the mouth of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Michal Kuč it was said that OKD does not allow to expand mining under Karvina, specifically under the previously inhabited part of the Old Town. A few days ago, however, there was a notice on the Official Board of the District Mining Authority of the initiation of an administrative procedure for the permit of mining in this locality. It's been a very unpleasant surprise for the locals. The ancients have been living in uncertainty for more than five years, when the OKD unexpectedly announced its intention to benefit in the territory that had until then been intended for development and construction. Part of the houses, including the new buildings, were redeemed and demolished, now there is no civic amenities in the Old Town. When the serving shaft was taken over by the state, there was talk of a downturn over the next few years. Why is the state enterprise OKD asking for new territories right now? Can you please tell me what plans the government of the Czech Republic has with OKD and mining under the town of Karviná? Can the Prime Minister at the resignation tell me what plans the government has with the Frenštát mine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u19	I thank Mr Lukáš Černohorský. Now, Mr Petr Dolínek, with his intervention. Again, the answers will come within 30 days, under the Rules of Procedure Act. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u20	Dear Prime Minister, housing prices in the Czech Republic have a long-term growing trend. The prices of flats in the Czech Republic have increased by more than 40 percent on average over the last four years and this trend continues, especially in Prague and, of course, in other major cities, where new buildings have increased by up to 68 percent. I take note of the plan you announced at the meeting with representatives of cities and municipalities on the establishment of an investment fund for the municipality. It may be useful, it may be necessary. But in this context, I would like to ask why you decided to abolish the housing development fund and replace it. Shouldn't the state right now support the construction of flats even more, given the acute lack of housing in large cities and throughout the Czech Republic? Isn't it just that this government and its ministers don't know what housing policy is, they don't know how to help it? You're not just afraid that you can't do it, and that's why you put it in other funds? And isn't it necessary that you are not interested in living in the Czech Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u21	I thank Mr Petr Dolínek. We continue to interpel Mrs Věra Kovářová. My colleague Dolínek is still ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u22	Dear Prime Minister, on Tuesday, disgruntled mayors demonstrated before the Office of the Government. They were concerned with the adoption of a draft amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest, as amended by the Senate proposal. As it turned out, we all know the House version was adopted. However, I will not go into detail. However, what else has stopped me in this context is an extremely limited space for demonstration before the Office of the Government. It must be pressed at a few meters, threatened by tram and car traffic. With more protesters, they are either in danger of being injured or stopped from operating. In my opinion, the demonstrators should have far more room before the Office of the Government so that they can freely say what they think of government steps before the Prime Minister's seat. Why do they only have a few meters? Is this a response to demonstrations that are directed against you personally or longer-term practice? Why are we restricting the right of assembly? Who is responsible for this? Is the government afraid of protestors who just want to express their opinion? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. As we have two final interviews with the Prime Minister, I would like to point out that they will immediately follow two interpellings from Petr Dolínek to the members of the government. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u24	The first of these two interventions concerns, Prime Minister, value added tax. The prepared amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, at least as we could learn, changes the definition of a price subsidy that will have a huge impact on subsidised services - transport, social services, etc. The current legislation explicitly exempts the subsidy for the result of the management from the subsidy to the price. The subsidy to the result of the management is not subject to the levy of value added tax, the subsidy to the price, yes. With this change, there will be a huge burden on the public budgets of the regions, cities and municipalities. The current compensation only in public transport across the Republic will increase by around 6 billion due to this adjustment. Crowns. Self-government will issue this amount and practically transfer the money to the state budget. In recent years, this is another intervention of the State, which will result in a permanent burden on self-government. In the previous case, for example, an increase in driver's wages has been made, and it is still not systemically resolved as it is covered by the regions. I therefore ask how the strengthening of the self-government budget will be systemically addressed so that this step is not a direct threat to reducing the public passenger transport services ordered leading to a collapse in transport. Reductions could affect up to 30% of current performances. Transporters who pay VAT compensation received do not have the same registered offices with the customer. The customers are not only regions, but also cities with their city transports and municipalities. The return of selected funds through the RUD is not possible and cannot be modeled like this. Self-administrations do not have the possibility of deduction against VAT paid because they do not have an input tax related to this activity, they are the final consumers of this service. They are now only dealing with a reduction in the VAT on the fare. And while I support young and seniors in public transport, in the interurban, riding for lower money, it is strange that the 6 billion that are collected here are equal to the 6 billion that the government lacks for this project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u25	Thank you. You can still stay, Mr. Ambassador, given that the last interview with the Prime Minister is also from you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u26	Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the issues of public support. I would like to ask you a question about your recent statement that the solution to the lack of nurses in three-shift traffic could be the allowance. I agree with this proposal that nurses receive a pension allowance such as ex-cops, soldiers, firefighters or customs. However, the introduction of a pension allowance for nurses would not solve another major complication. I have experienced several cases in Prague, certainly in other regions and cities. On retirement, nurses are losing their service apartments. They have very low incomes, they don't have the power to save their lives for living, and when they retire, in Prague it means leaving this city. It means returning the keys, moving out and hoping that in their native communities they will accept them back after 35 years of hospital service. So I'm asking you how you would handle this situation, where when you retire, nurses have to return service apartments, rooms at the hostels, and actually give up their entire living facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u27	I thank Mr Petr Dolínek and I note that all the interventions on the Prime Minister have been exhausted. I repeat once again that the Prime Minister's replies to the Members' intercessors will come within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. Since, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can continue with oral interpelations on other members of the government right now, I am initiating these. The first interview is by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová to the Minister of Agriculture Jiří Milek. A colleague Jakub Janda will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the Animal Protection Act requires municipalities to take care of abused animals found in their territory. However, municipalities often do not have the money in their budgets for this. The Ministry of Agriculture has therefore drawn up a new subsidy programme from which municipalities can draw money. Its purpose is to ensure the care of the animals collected placed in substitute care or preliminary replacement care under the Act on the Protection of Animals against Abuse. However, the subsidy programme only provides for subsidies for cattle and horses. Most municipalities have a problem especially with abused dogs, which the program does not remember. I believe that if our laws presume that the community must take care of the abused and stray animals, then the Ministry should draw up a programme for all animals, not just for horses and cattle. Dear Minister, will the Ministry prepare such a subsidy programme or extend the programme existing to cover these animal species?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u29	Thank you, Mrs Adamová Pekarová. The Minister of Agriculture has five minutes and will respond to the Mrs. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u30	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. My predecessor has already responded to the interpellation of former Mr Bendl at the 57th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the issue of funding. The objective of this non-investment subsidy, which we have drawn up, is to compensate municipalities for the obligations arising from the delegation, the financial costs associated with their provision in cases of exceptional scope. This is the application of special alternative care measures or preliminary alternative care in cases of exceptional scope. The municipal authorities of the municipality, with extended scope, which provide preliminary replacement care, shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs effectively incurred. Although the person who has been removed is obliged to pay the reimbursement of the costs, the enforcement of the compensation is questionable. This year's implemented aid represents operational solutions to emergency cases associated with extraordinary financial costs, which significantly burden the municipality's budget and can achieve parameters conflicting with the capacity of the municipality to cover the cost of care for abused animals and the provision of delegated acts. This measure should have been used by municipalities to deal with crisis situations, not by a routine instrument. Providing funds through the Regional Authority and other contacted resorts in a short period of time proved impassable. The subsidy to municipalities through the Ministry of Agriculture principles is a tool for dealing with critical situations. The principles of the Ministry of Agriculture are governed by the Act on Agriculture, which allows the Ministry of Agriculture to support livestock farming in this way. Therefore, dogs cannot be supported from the subsidy programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u31	Thank you, Minister. I ask my colleague Adamová if she has an additional question. Please, Madame, you have one minute for an additional question. I'm sure the Minister will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u32	Thank you. Surely it is the extent to which the dog's multiplication plant appears. I'm sure we can agree on that. I understand that the Ministry of Agriculture is dealing with livestock. Therefore, I will ask more generally as a representative of the government whether you are communicating such things with the Minister for Regional Development, where I suspect this issue might fall, or with the Minister for the Environment, if we take it that it is animal protection. It's really probably a resortism at the moment, but I wonder if you've ever discussed such a subject with the government, whether you have a vision or you want to address this issue in the future, because I don't think that municipalities, if there's just a multiplication plant in their territory, where there are dozens and hundreds of miserable animals, have enough money in their budget to deal with it. But he has to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u33	Thank you. I ask the Minister if he will answer the supplementary question. Yes, it is. Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u34	Thank you for the floor. My personal opinion, which I will assert if I am in government, is that all animals be chipped to know exactly whose animals are, because the question of multiplication, the question of wandering dogs and cats is that they are caught, but no one knows who the owner is. I think there is a need for order in this Czech Republic. It's common in some countries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u35	Thank you, Minister. And now, Mr Jakub Janda, with an interview on Lubomír Metnar, who is not present. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u36	Thank you. Dear Minister, I sent you a letter on 28 March 2018 regarding the position of the Czech Post towards the municipalities in the operation of the Posta Partner branches. In this letter, I appealed to a more helpful state towards the municipalities, which, in order to maintain basic civic amenities, are trying to maintain the Post Office in the form of the use of the Post Office Partner. As I said, the flat-rate amount provided by the state company Česká pošta does not cover the salary of the employee, so the municipality pays a large sum to the operation of the mail, which burden the municipal budgets, and I asked you a direct question as to whether the Czech Post, as a state-run undertaking, should rethink its position towards municipalities and contribute a larger amount to the operation of such branches, i.e. increase the flat-rate remuneration, which would at least cover the salary of the employee himself. You replied to my letter that the Czech Post continuously deals with the motivational system, and you assured me that the Czech Post is interested in the attractive project. I thank you for this answer, but I must say that I am not satisfied, so I am asking you again. Because it is a matter of purely political decision and not of leading action. Will the Czech Post, as a state-run enterprise, re-evaluate its attitude towards the municipalities involved in the Posta Partner programme and contribute a larger amount to the operation of branches, thus increasing the flat-rate remuneration that would at least cover the salary of the employee himself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u37	I thank Mr Jakub Jand, and since the Minister is not here, you will receive an answer within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová to the Minister of Health, who is present. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u38	Dear Minister, in the last parliamentary term, I confronted your predecessor with the question of what they were doing to ensure that doctors and their services in the countryside do not dwindle. It was mostly dental care. We agreed with the ministers that this was a problem, that something had to be done with it, but I have to admit, I didn't like the pace that was set. The steps were quite few, and they were slow to everything. Moreover, the situation was complicated by the ping-pong between the ministries of health and education, which due to the involvement of these authorities in a comprehensive solution to the lack of doctors in the countryside arose, at least looking from the outside. Today I would like to ask whether you are following up on your predecessor's efforts and whether you are going to work a little faster. I think it would be desirable. What specific steps have you taken, what kind of business do you take, and what kind of action will you take? What is their time frame, what is the binding objective you set yourself, and what is the date you want to achieve it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. And the Minister of Health has five minutes to respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must agree that the decline of doctors in rural areas, in remote regions, is a problem. I guess we don't have to pretend that this problem doesn't exist. [[Does it exist?]] It is especially in key disciplines such as general practitioners, dentists, general practitioners for children and adolescents. Of course, there are several reasons. If we look for example. for the age structure of practitioners, especially children, so they actually have the highest age average. A practical doctor for children and adolescents today has an age average of 59 years. We see that this is a structural problem that has no solution entirely by waving a magic wand. The first thing we are obviously dealing with is communication with health insurance companies. These are actually legally responsible for ensuring local and temporal availability, that is something we will control, and insurance companies within their contractual policy have the option, if, for example, unsuccessful selection procedures occur repeatedly to conclude a contract in a specific location, to increase up to 30 percent of the remuneration compared to normal health care payments. Of course, we will pressure health insurance companies to do this and simply to ensure that care is provided, which is precisely their legal obligation. The second thing the Ministry of Health can do, so maybe you've noticed, we've prepared grant programs. First of all, there are subsidies for general practitioners, where we offer practical doctors up to CZK 500,000 to open an office in selected locations where it is not possible to get a doctor in the standard way, and now we have actually launched a program for dentists, where it is up to 1.2 miles. CZK for the operation of dental practice just again in remote areas. We've created a group from dental chambers, insurance companies and ministries, we've identified the problem areas based on several criteria, and we started the program on Monday. I have to say, before we triggered it, there was quite a lot of interest, a lot of questions, so we'll see. We're just wondering how successful he's gonna be. Anyway, 1.2 miles. The dentist will be able to draw if he undertakes to stay in a specific location for at least five years, to take patients to the so-called insurance company, i.e. insured health insurance companies, not just cash, which is the problem. Because we don't have a shortage of dentists. We have enough dentists in our country, per capita. The problem is their location. That they remain in larger centres and that they do not want to accept insured persons, that they simply work only for cash. And it is this subsidy program that aims to meet these conditions. We're trying to motivate ourselves financially. We don't have any locations, we can't take the doctor to the shackles and place them somewhere. We are trying to set up some financial motivations in this way, both through public health insurance payments from insurance companies and sophomores with these subsidy programs. As for the structural problem, the age structure, the age of doctors, we entered into negotiations with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, where we already have a specific plan. We need to strengthen the medical faculties, because in short, according to our predictions, as we have data, doctors are actually getting older and the number of graduates, the current number of graduates is not enough for the natural reproduction of aging doctors. We need to increase the number of graduates. We're pre-negotiated with deans of medical faculties. We have this pre-negotiated, of course, with the Ministry of Education under which it belongs, and it will be a ten-year plan to increase funds, because the faculty must, of course, get money for it for students, and from next year, respectively. from September they will receive the first money to prepare, and from next academic year, respectively. Not what happens now, but 2019-2020, the faculty will receive 15 percent more students, so they simply produce more graduates. That's another precaution. But, of course, it's all gonna take some time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to answer. Now, question. Are you interested in an additional question? My colleague. The Minister listens to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u42	Minister, thank you very much, I am glad that the two subsidy programmes have been set up, and hopefully the doctors will also face it and exhaust them. I'm gonna give myself a little nudge right now. Sometime during the winter I noticed your media statement in which you called on the citizens to report to the Ministry of Health where there are few dentists, where their care is unavailable. No offense, I understand that PR is very important, but after all. The numbers don't have the Department of Health, the health insurance company, or the dental chamber? Honestly, I find it absolutely fascinating when the minister has to call on the public in the 21st century to give him information from his department, which I consider - perhaps not mistakenly - to be quite fundamental. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u43	Thank you. The Minister has two minutes to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u44	Thank you for the floor. So of course we have the data. It was precisely in connection with the establishment of a subsidy programme, when we created a really special working group, where there is a dental chamber, the ministry, insurance companies, and we said, of course, that citizens can report their suggestions to us on a special e-mail address. But with the fact that, of course, we're coming out of other data. We have data. We have data from health insurance companies. We even processed the map. If I had it here, it's a shame I didn't have it here, because I would show it to you, it's on our website, where the locations that are problematic are actually right now. There are several criteria. But I just don't think it's entirely wrong to have any suggestions from citizens, either. But the map is processed, it's quite nice, we did it with Charles University, and we really did map the accessibility around the county. And there are about four levels, from that really utter inaccessibility to some impaired availability. So that's something we've got mapped out, and we'll see. I hope the program will be successful, because basically today the only option we have is really the financial motivation. We don't have anything else in our hands to get those doctors. But on the other hand, it has to be admitted that it is a structural problem, the depopulation of the countryside, the fact that the doctor will go there, so of course you must have some background, must have a school there for your children, a job for your husband and so on. It's not just that the doctor comes in with nothing. So I guess there are other resorts that need to be involved, so it's really more complex.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u45	I thank the Minister of Health and continue to interpel Mrs Hyťhová to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová, who is not here. So you have two minutes, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u46	Madam Secretary, I have been approached by disabled citizens who cannot use a mechanical cart, but are only able to move on that electric cart. Unfortunately, they have a problem with the ability to get a car that is modified for electric carts, i.e. cars where one does not move, but comes directly with the cart. However, cars are not produced in our country and the car cost hundreds of thousands of crowns depending on the type of car. The contributions to the car for the disabled, whether they use mechanical or electric carts, are the same, so in practice people are being discriminated against by electric carts and have no real chance of getting a car that would certainly contribute to their greater socialization. However, affordable cars are produced in the world from Japan to India and China and certainly elsewhere in the world. I ask you to consider whether the Ministry or any state organization would compete and buy cars and subsequently provide the disabled with contributions either to health insurance companies or to the Czech Social Security Administration. Thank you in advance for the answer and I hope and believe that the Ministry will look into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u47	Thank you, Mrs Hyťhová. The Minister will respond within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act, and we continue to interpel to the still absent Minister Němcová, by interpelling Mr Mikuláš Peksa. [[Mr Peksa responds slowly to the challenge.]] Ambassador! I always report who's supposed to be ready. I will also announce - Mr Václav Klaus, who has the following interpellation, is certainly ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u48	Thank you. Madam Secretary, the Magistrate has called the entire territory of Ústí nad Labem a socially excluded locality, which, among other things, means not paying part of the aid in material distress. This decision, which has an extensive impact on the lives of particular people, is in the sense of self-government, but it is based on the laws of your ministry. The people concerned have nowhere to go if they don't want to leave their city. Because they didn't find a better option, they ended up in apartments run by poor businessmen who are just tying out of rent payments. This business in Ústí has often reached the level where people from very distant parts of the so-called social tourism are moving to the city. We reject this and, of course, we are glad that the poverty business in Ústí will stop. However, it must also be said at what cost and in what way. Instead of looking for solutions to involve the weakest in society, we will drive them beyond the city's borders. Most socially weak people without capital and social security and ties will be scattered to the surrounding cities and municipalities. If they were trying to build something, all their efforts would go to waste. The possibility of children achieving a better standard of living through education is also significantly threatened because of moving and long-term existential uncertainty. And while we can have a debate about who the state should and should not help, I believe in an elementary consensus that children should. Nor will this area measure affect those who simply cannot help themselves in their situation and cannot get a cheaper apartment: old-age pensioners, single parents and others. All of a sudden, they must be looking for a new existence out of town. The Domino effect is then the widespread introduction of the status of socially excluded localities by the Republic, even though the provision that abolishs the payments in socially excluded localities has been challenged and currently lies with the Constitutional Court. We also have examples of good practice in social housing in the Republic. Last year, for example, the city of Brno received its award for its approach. So what conclusions do you intend to draw from this situation as Minister? Will you support a wider amendment to the law on material distress? On the basis of these events, do you also consider it necessary to implement the social housing law as quickly as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u49	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will answer the question within 30 days. Now, Mr Václav Klaus to the Minister of Agriculture, who is present. A colleague Adamec will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u50	Dear Minister, I dare to interpel you. I'm sorry, I mostly intersect in matters of education, but I've been asked by an undertaking from the Pardubice Region. My interpelation concerns the existence of really small farms and the state's relationship with them. The starting point is a specific example of Statka Hungary, which faces fines from the Regional Veterinary Administration, which has already imposed fines of CZK 120,000. They milk only 200 litres of fresh milk a day, and the fines are, for example, fresh cocoa with fresh cocoa instead of a cocoa-flavored milk drink or a non-standardised milk label for a consumer's risk. I will add that all checks on regional veterinary administration regarding quality have always been quite all right and products of this operation, both bakery and dairy, receive the title MLS of the Pardubice Region and similar awards every year. I don't want to get involved in specific business cases, I don't think that's appropriate. I would just mention that local manufacturers have a great sense of the landscape itself, the business environment and its width. So I would like to ask you whether you can also ensure human access to these businesses in order to avoid their liquidation. I do not mean any benevolence in hygiene standards, but inadequate sanctioning for meaningless and unrelated hygiene regulations, among other things European and similar. Thank you and I expect what your approach will be, in fact, your ministry, as well as the small businessmen and the human approach to these manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u51	I thank Mr Václav Klaus for the question and respect of time. Minister Milek has five minutes to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u52	Mr President, honourable Members, let me respond to this initiative. The State Veterinary Administration does not discriminate against small agricultural regional producers. This can be demonstrated, for example, by the number of small milk processors, so-called mini-pharmacies, which supervise individual regional veterinary administrations. To date, there are 266 such facilities. Thirty-two of these operations are even in the same region as the mentioned Statek Hungary and serious problems must be solved by the regional veterinary administration only with this one farm. During 2017, at its own expense, the State Veterinary Administration carried out laboratory tests on raw milk processed in a mini-pharmaceutical plant. As regards the specific example given by Statka Uhersko, it is necessary to mention that the operator over-exaggerates the shortcomings in the labelling and over-patches or conceals serious deficiencies in hygiene. It's also about the details of the fine. Fines in 2017: fine of CZK 20,000 for health deficiencies in control 7. 4. Serious hygiene deficiencies, absence of own product testing, operational documentation, unsecured monitoring of production and products. [[15.20 hours]] As regards the specific example given by Statka Uhersko, it is necessary to mention that the operator over-exaggerates the shortcomings in the labelling and over-patches or conceals serious deficiencies in hygiene. It's also about the details of the fine. Fines in 2017: fine of CZK 20,000 for health deficiencies in control 7. 4. Serious hygiene deficiencies, absence of own product testing, operational documentation, unsecured monitoring of production and products. Follow-up check 16. 8. in 2017 and imposed fine 40,000 crowns. Repeated hygiene and documentation deficiencies, unsecured traceability. 1918, 26. 4. a fine of CZK 60,000. So it's actually 120,000 crowns. It's still an unrightful order. Deficit for deficiencies in these three checks, repeatedly hygienic and documentary deficiencies, insecurity of traceability, expired raw materials of production. In general, the following may be communicated to impose fines. The imposition of fines shall be based on legal provisions setting the lowest and maximum rate and shall be at the discretion of the supervisory authority as to how high penalties will be granted. Each case shall be assessed individually. It depends on the repetition of the offence, the seriousness, the volume of goods to which the offence relates, the conduct by the food business operator, the willingness to remedy the deficiencies within the specified time limit. I can document the photographs here to the Member from the inspection concerned, so I will pass on to the Member to see what offences have been committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u53	I thank Minister Jiří Milek for his reply. I ask my colleague Klaus if he is interested in an additional question. He does. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have one minute to ask me an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u54	Hello. The point of my interpelation wasn't to argue about whether the inspection found any packaging that wasn't related to the production, and things like that, we don't have to argue here, neither of us were on the farm. My question was whether the current practice seems quite satisfactory to you, whether you intend to ease the incredibly bureaucratic constraints of small producers and whether you intend to do something about it. I didn't want to argue with you about the particular case of Statka Uhersko. I wasn't there, you weren't there either. I don't think that would be dignified. But more generally, how do you intend to approach it in the future, or whether the current situation suits you completely and this is how you like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u55	I thank Mr Klaus for his supplementary question. The Minister is about to answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u56	I'm sure the current state of affairs is that only sporadically inspects small manufacturers. Veterinary administration today on large dairy processors, which are large dairy plants, so there is daily surveillance of at least one, sometimes two veterinarians. So the fact that we're controlling these small ones somehow, I don't think so, but there's really been a triple or repeated same error here, so unfortunately, the fine has been imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u57	Thank you, Minister. This interpelation ends and we continue by interpelling Mr Ivan Adamec to the Minister of Transport. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you some questions about discounts for students. Starting tomorrow, the present you gave our seniors for 65 years and students under 26. Of course, I could criticize this decision here, and I see it as a political decision. I imagine that the six, or more than six billion, could be used differently, directly to retire or to complete our road and rail networks, but I say that is not the subject of my question. I'd like to ask you one thing. How are we gonna keep an eye on this? Because it's very simple for seniors. They just have ID, 65 years old, it's on. It's a little complicated for students because schools aren't legally responsible for issuing certificates. And there I see a big problem, because, for example, in Brno, it was discovered last year that the reviewers found out that almost a thousand students actually had an invalid school ID. I don't know how they found out, but I definitely think it's gonna be a problem, because those IDs really, really, find out if they're the right ones or not, I really see that as a big problem. And another thing I think is that we also need to ask the question of how you're going to deal with this in case, because today, when there are regular buses and they get to town, they're going to become suburban traffic, and they're actually going on the same routes as public transport lines. And here, of course, there is competition for those carriers, which I don't think is exactly the right competition, because the difference in the price of urban public transport, to which this discount doesn't apply, and the suburban scheduled transport will simply be large, 75 percent is already large enough. So I'm wondering if you've been thinking about how you're gonna make up for the towns that actually subsidize the proven loss, or whether you're gonna leave it to them. Then it must be said that it is a common part of the community and the state, the present. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yes, I'll complete the sentence. I just think it's going to be higher than the six billion crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u59	Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok has five minutes to respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u60	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Mr Adamč, through Mr President. First of all, just one detailing information. The discount, unfortunately, or, well, I'm not gonna put that adjective in there, it's not gonna start from tomorrow, it's gonna start from 1. 9. I am going to take that as an answer to your second part, because we have long been discussing with the regions and with the statutory cities, how to do exactly those cases of parallel driving and all the possible discounts they had in their systems, whether it be Prague's integrated transport, or whether it's those integrated transports of individual regions, how to do it and how to put it all into those systems. The county asked us to move the rush so they'd have time to do these things. In other words, today it's going to be that if there are these parallel routes, we said that actually the discount will only apply to buses that are in the public service and are not, I'd say, the public transport, but they're parallel transports. The municipality has the possibility, or the entity that does, to deal with it in such a way that our proposal is that it can exclude some parts of those lines from the discount, i.e. If he doesn't want to make his own competition, he's going somewhere much cheaper than a parallel public transport line, or he can retype it not to end up in the center, but he's going to end up in the final public transport. So these things have been resolved, and according to my information, there are no problems between municipalities or cities today, regional integrated transport. With regard to the discounts, it is designed that the discounts for pupils between the sixth and fifteenth years and students between the fifteenth and twenty-sixth years will not be limited to the route between residence and school, as was the case so far, and the discount will be granted during the summer holidays. Passengers under the age of 15 may not prove entitlement to discount, up to 15 years of age, because they do not have an ID card and nothing, from 15 to 18 it is either an officially issued certificate documenting the age of the holder, which is a citizen's license or another type of ID, and the student can prove entitlement in addition to the current student's card also with a valid ISIC card or by what you said, simply confirmation of the study which has its limits, but is now in the law and decree of the Ministry of Finance as an acceptable document. We're going to have to increase the control activity not only to check that the IDs are valid and that someone isn't taking advantage of it. There's a few other things in there. We're aware of that, it's a risk, but I'm pretty sure it might not be that much of a claim. We believe that the expected value of the six billion a year could be this way, or may not be exceeded, and that there could be some reserve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u61	Thank you, Minister of Transport. My colleague Adamec is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u62	Thank you, I'm more of a statement. It is, of course, when something is free or at a great discount, that the number of frauds increases multiple times, or the possibility of frauds. I think we need to work on that. Perhaps an additional question. It is taken from the basic fare price, but today there are also tickets, such various events that are there, and I worry, of course, that this will result in the system being generally expensive, even if the discount is there, so the carriers will also increase. And I'm worried that the six billion will actually be enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u63	Thank you. The Minister is going to answer the supplementary question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u64	I just want to stress one thing. That's why, because what's totally free is sometimes people don't appreciate it, so we put in that big 75 percent discount. I think it can already be some kind of correction in itself. Let's be surprised. We'll respond to those things. I believe that this will make it more possible for both seniors and pupils to simply build up their habit of driving trains and public transport and that it could help to relieve public transport in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your follow-up. Before we continue to interpel Mr Kopřiva to the Minister of Justice, I state an apology, from 16 a.m. to 18 p.m. Mr Stanislav Berkovec apologizes. Now, then, Mr Kopřiva. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a simple question as to whether your government has no confidence, in demise, in its plan to abolish the position of Human Rights Commissioner. Because the genesis is that this post exists at the moment, but it hasn't been occupied since 2014, which means since the last government, where you also had this under you. And the current government, which has now ruled for several months, has relieved a lot of people, but, on the contrary, the occupation of those positions is a little slow. Yesterday, it escalated because you're like point number one at the government's meeting. 12, Rules of Procedure 413/18, submitted material entitled Amendment to the Statute of the Government Council on Gender Equality, the Statute of the Council on Human Rights, the Statute of the Government Council on National Minorities and the Statute of the Government Council on Roma Minority Affairs. This amendment now admits that the post of Human Rights Commissioner will be held by the Deputy Council of the Government for Gender Equality, which concerns me a little. I'm a little concerned, because I think it's going to lead to the fact that this position is going to be completely blown away and it's not going to be in the government's hands. While it used to be customary for the government to have an independent Human Rights Minister who also had the right to vote and was responsible for it, a proposal is made that will continue to degrade that position. So the Human Rights Minister is no longer in the current government, and now he's threatening to disappear, too, so I'm wondering how it's going to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u67	Thank you for keeping time on the question. Mr. Justice Minister Robert Pelikán has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u68	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, you do not have the exact information. First of all, the current government is the Minister of Human Rights. It looks like this. [[He's pointing at himself.]] And he's talking to you. So it's not true that we don't have a minister dealing with this agenda. I'm very intense with her. As for the post of Human Rights Commissioner, it was established for the first time in the second half of the 1990s, at a time when no minister in the government had yet been entrusted with this agenda. He was, in fact, the predecessor of later human rights ministers. Then things changed, sometimes the minister was, sometimes he wasn't. And it was the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, which in some way ordered it by setting up a Human Rights Minister, that she no longer named him the agent, because, first, the roles were a little dubulating, and, second, it should be said that the administrative agent was always assigned to the Office of the Government and normally to the position of some department director, so actually to a lower position. In that government, by the way, unlike what you said, I wasn't in charge of this agenda. She was in charge of Minister Dienstbier and after him Minister Chvojka. The change we've made is just a technical change, we haven't changed in any way in those statutes just because if the Human Rights Commissioner is set up, he's automatically a member of these councils, and he has the presidency. Just in case the other option is, that is, the Minister with the right to vote, as you say, it is better, so there is an opportunity for him to preside over the board when, for example, he has to be in the House, a competent deputy, which, as you say, is a position higher than where the proxy was usually placed, because he was only at the level of the Director of the Department. I hope that's enough for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u69	Thank you. I ask Mr Kopřiva if he is interested in an additional question. That's right. Ambassador, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, thank you for your soothing and historic excursion. Of course, I appreciate everything positive you've done in that position. However, I wonder what the concept will be if you have information on what the concept of your successor will be in the next government, who will be responsible for the concept of human rights within the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u71	The Minister has two minutes to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u72	Thank you for this supplementary question, however much I don't feel fully responsible, and you're right to ask if I have information. I'm still going to talk to the Prime Minister about this. It's an important subject for me. I want to get it straight with him. As I know the Prime Minister, I have no doubt that the human rights agenda will be ensured in a dignified manner in another government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u73	Another MP, Zdeněk Podal, has an interview with Minister Richard Brabec. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u74	Dear Minister, by interpelling me to you in the interest of the Hradec Králové fishing union, who asked me through Jan Pol's technique for help in a desperate situation caused by the protection and withdrawal of the river otter in the Elbe, Orlice and other streams. The drop of the otter took place in 2000 and to date they have multiplied into a state that threatens the fish population in our region. The otters taste everything alive, especially the crayfish, amphibians, molluscs, and have already almost wiped out the muskrats in our region. They eat toads and eggs of birds. The damage caused by ottery in the territory of the former East Bohemia Region, where our territorial union is located, can be estimated in the year about 30 million crowns at the number of otters about 840 pieces. Interpelling the Minister of Agriculture 7. 3. I found that the Ministry of Agriculture long-term endeavours to at least partially compensate for damage to fishing areas. In order to ensure the possibility of payment of the damage caused by protected animals, legislators adopted Law No. 115/2000 Sb. The subsequent amendment of this law extended the possibility of payment of these compensations for damage caused to fish stocks in fishing areas. The Ministry of the Environment has eliminated this modification by a legal order and the damage caused by otters is not reimbursed in fishing areas. So I'm asking you to re-evaluate this condition with this interview so that it is possible to pay back the damage caused by otters in the fishing areas. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u75	I thank Mr Zdeněk Podal. The Vice-President of the Government is certainly ready, or the Minister of Agriculture, too, although this interpellation was not directed at him. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, the survivors - I would like to say again by the classic number of Members. [[There are only about 20 Members in the hall together.]] Thank you, honourable Member, through the President, for this question. I can assure you that we have been dealing with the issue of otter and, above all, the problem that the Czech Fisheries Union is actually dealing with throughout the Republic for quite a long time. And I speak to representatives of the Czech Fisheries Union quite often, even at that level, say the management of the Czech Fisheries Union as a Republican and regularly always at some conferences. You are certainly aware that river otter is a protected species, that the Czech Republic is bound by international conventions, namely the so-called. The Berne Convention, and Council Directive 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats, and these international conventions are then reflected in the Czech legal order either through Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, and also Act No. 449/2001 Coll., on hunting. In fact, there is an otter included among the species of game that cannot be hunted with regard to their protection at national or international level. However, such protection is not absolute and even today it is possible to allow exemptions from the prohibitions under Section 56 of the Nature and Landscape Protection Act in the specified cases and under the conditions of those regulations. However, if there were to be regulation in terms of year-round area hunting, that would mean quite fundamental changes in national and European legislation and the Berne Convention, and there I say frankly that this is difficult to imagine. It would have to be a long-term process in any case. However, the case of beaver, which until recently has also been strictly protected, and today there are regions where the beaver is already being hunted under some conditions, is clear proof that this process is also running. What is quite essential is the question of compensation. And here it really hits a really strict legal plane, because the damage caused by river otters can really be covered under Law No. 115/2000 Coll., on the granting of compensation for damage caused by selected specially protected animals. This method is quite well applied to fish kept in ponds, garrisons and other similar facilities, but - and this is the place - in these fishing grounds the situation is difficult. Because there's actually a certain precedent where, essentially, in this case, the question of ownership by otter consumed fish, if I may say so. According to both legal theory and judicial practice, wild fish are considered to be a thing of no one, or res nullius, and ownership of them arises when they are caught. Thus, there is no significant sign of damage linked to the reduction of the ownership status of the owner, for example. Supreme Court ruling 25 Cdo 3335/2003, but, and I would like to stress this, the most recent Supreme Court judgment of 30. 5. 2017 which deals with cormorane but could also be applied to otter, respects the above status of wild animals, respectively. fish, admits that the property damage may consist of the wasteful cost of fishing. The Supreme Court has returned the case to further proceedings, and we as the Ministry of the Environment are currently very closely monitoring the outcome of the court's decision, because it would be a precedent for which we have been waiting. This means, as the Supreme Court has indicated, there is a possibility of applying the damage proposal in fisheries areas as well, and in the event that this procedure is confirmed, it will be necessary to work out an optimal way of calculating the amount of damage, so that it is not subsequently the subject of further disputes. I can assure you that, as Ministry of the Environment, we will continue to work intensively with the Ministry of Agriculture and with the Czech Fisheries Union to resolve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u77	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco. I'm asking if my colleague asked - he doesn't have an additional question, so the interview is over. We continue by intersecting Mr Jan Čižinský to the absent Minister Němcová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u78	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry you're not here. I'm interpolating you with regard to the planned restrictions on housing support by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm sorry you're not here because we met at the House today. My questions are as follows: Why are you in such a hurry to limit the housing allowance and the housing supplement, by giving one day to settle some comment points? If you're in such a hurry, why aren't you here to answer our questions? This is a very serious matter, and for the KDU-ČSL club we will demand to place a point at the House meeting. Fortunately, other Members are also convinced of the seriousness of the matter, so we have collected 40 signatures so that there may be extraordinary meetings. It was signed by KDU-ČSL MPs, Pirates, STAN and TOP 09, to whom I thank. And now for specific questions. Do you still think the cost of living doesn't rise, Madam Secretary, but it's falling? Why do you want to cancel regular valorisation? I would like to ask how you will define a housing property whose ownership will exclude the family from receiving a housing allowance. So how does the system help that families with a damp cottage after their ancestors will have to sell it so that they can continue to live in their apartment? I want to ask, how will the continuity of doses be ensured? Because we all remember Minister Drábek, and how it turned out, and you follow in his footsteps. To this day, some have not recovered from the debts that were incurred at that time. Are you aware that limiting the housing allowance will most likely affect teachers, police officers, paramedics, employees, and employees of your department? Isn't it better to adopt a functional law on social housing first and then to regulate the system? Because the way it's done now, it really can't go any different than Minister Drábek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u79	Thank you for keeping time to the question. Interpelation shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act within 30 days. We are continuing with another interview - Mrs Karla Maříková to the Minister of Health. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have been informed that there are persons in the State Spa of Janské Lázně who have been or are simultaneously active for other commercial spa facilities in a competitive position. First of all, he is the statutory deputy director of . Milan Preclík, who is the financial director of both the commercial spa facility Lázně Bohdaneč and the State Spa Spa Janské Lázně. By doing so, the persons concerned are in breach of the law. You are in breach of the prohibition of competition on the part of Ing's economic director. Preclík and these other people known? How has Ing been verified by your Ministry as the founder of the state enterprise in question. The Preclík fulfils all the conditions for the performance of its duties, in particular with regard to the said State Enterprise Act? What consequences will you draw from this prohibition of competition of the persons concerned? Will there be an appeal? If so, in what time frame? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u81	Thank you, Mrs Maříková. Minister of Health. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this issue it must be said that Janské Lázně has a relatively short new director, Mr Martin Voženílek. As long as we're talking about Mr. Ing. Preclík, so he came up with the last director, Mr. Ing. Rampouch, i.e. It's been there a long time. Mr. . Rampouch has been removed by my predecessor. And I agree with that, and of course I didn't know - because I deal with the directors of those directly managed organizations, not other management, that is the responsibility of the relevant director - that, indeed, in the case of an economic deputy, this is the problem where he also has a part-time job in another spa company. I have ordered the new director to address this situation in priority. It is, then, that Mr. Ing. Preclík ends up in his 30s. 6. 2018 and the position of economic deputy will be occupied by a new economic deputy starting from 2. 7. 2018. Of course, occupying the position of an economic deputy is not an entirely simple task, especially at the moment, which is in the labour market. [[15.50 hours]] Mr. . Preclík was assigned to complete the accounting conclusion of the company, because it is probably not quite good at the time when the financial statements are being completed, to change the economic deputy given that he prepared the financial statements from the outset. So this is going to be done, and as I'm saying, 30. 6. 2018 ends in the position of economic deputy in Janské Lázně.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u83	Thank you. I'm asking Mrs. Maříková. Yes, he's interested in a follow-up question. I'm sure the Minister will listen. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u84	Thank you. Minister, and what concrete steps will you take to determine whether these persons have not benefited as a result of non-compliance with the competition ban?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u85	Yes, a specific question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u86	I'm sure I'll check it out. I admit, of course, I had no idea what the situation was. As I say, I deal with the CEOs of businesses that fall under the Ministry, not their Deputys and other management. Indeed, since the Ministry establishes 70 directly managed organizations, it is not even possible, but I will certainly check it out, and if there is any suspicion that the benefit could arise or arise, I will deal with it in accordance with the law, but I do not yet have that information. The fact that there was simply an incompatibility of functions is true. This is being addressed by the economic deputy ending up in his post, as I say, and I'm sure I'll have other things checked out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u87	Thank you. And now, before Mr Daniel Pawlas gets the floor, I apologise to Mr Václav Klaus for tomorrow 1. 6. for the whole day for personal reasons. Now interpelling Daniel Pawlas to the Minister of Health. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u88	Thank you. Dear Minister, in my parliamentary office in Ostrava and also in my neighborhood in Karvinsk, I have encountered several cases in recent months where patients have not received their medications. Let me give you a specific example from the practice where a patient whose name I know was seeking a cure for high-pressure treatment. According to the patient, the problem with finding this medicine is repeated. With distributors, there is a kind of reservation system with set limits on quite common medicines, such as this medicine. I informed myself at the nearest pharmacy and was told that the issue in ordering is every month because the monopoly distributor has set a limit on deliveries to pharmacies. No one knows who and how to set this limit. I'm under the impression that this is a cartel between the manufacturer and a particular distributor, and the patient is just unlucky. Regardless of the fact that this distributor also has its pharmacies, which are in great advantage, because the mentioned drug simply has always, but this patient will not get there. Dear Minister, I therefore ask why there is a monopoly supplier of medicines and how you will ensure that the pharmacy has the opportunity to order prescription medications from multiple distributors to resolve the situation in the interests of patients of the Czech Republic and not in the interests of a monopoly distributor or his pharmacies network. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u89	Thank you for keeping time to the question. The Minister will answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u90	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry really follows the pharmacies terrain in this regard and records that some pharmacies have a problem with the supply of medicines from some distributors. That is certainly true. Here in the last parliamentary term, there was an effort to address this. This applies mainly to medicines imported into the Czech market in smaller quantities. It's true that some medications are unavailable. The law in the last parliamentary term was amended on the basis of one Member's amendment at the time by imposing, in fact, two working days after the call sent by the distributor to deliver the medicine, but unfortunately the law, as it was prepared, respectively. the amendment did not go through any commentary procedure, and as it is now the wording of the law, unfortunately, it is practically unenforceable. We want to regulate the law. Of course, there was an effort to keep the drug available. As I say, within two days at the request of the pharmacy the distributor will be obliged or should be obliged to deliver the medicine. Unfortunately, practice has shown that, in principle, competence is not determined to determine the market share of the particular distributor. It was just supposed to be based on his market share. What will this market share be calculated from, whether there will be only recipe drugs, or even free-market drugs, etc., who will conduct administrative proceedings, or whether it will be dealt with by any measure of a general nature, etc. In short, some part of the amendment has been inserted into the law, but not all the conventions have been thought out. In short, the objective is that all pharmacies have medicines available within that legal period of two working days and that the enforcement of this obligation is actually provided in the law, but unfortunately we must change it to do so, we must amend the law. We've already set up a task force at the Ministry of Health. The meeting is scheduled for mid-June, the task of the working group is to prepare for the change of legislation, the amendment of the law so that the obligation to deliver drugs is clearly specified, it was clearly specified who has the competence and how the market share of individual distributors will be determined, and so that it is enforceable. So we're working on it. I promise we'll come up with some legislative solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u91	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm asking if... There is no interest in the supplementary question, therefore the interpelation ends. Another interpelation is the interpellation of Mr Karel Krejza to the absent Minister of the Interior. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear absent Secretary of the Interior, Metnar, I would like to ask you for an answer, or perhaps rather an explanation, on the basis of your interview, which you provided today's portal on the issue of the wrongful detention of Israeli tourists. I think I understand that there may be a situation where the Police of the Czech Republic is holding someone illegally. I'm sure that can happen. Unfortunately, I know the whole situation, and maybe the rest of you, too, just from the media, and it doesn't look very civilized there. Israel's tourists had torn clothing, allegedly being trampled on their necks, accompanied by automatic weapons to their heads. I don't know if it really happened, but I'm not gonna judge that. So I'd like to ask you to explain how this whole incident really happened. But what really puzzles me is your personal approach to refusing to apologize to tourists. I think our country is a tourist country, among other things, that we probably care, or at least I care, about its reputation abroad. There was a time when it was destroyed on arrival at the Ruzyn airport. This has been corrected, but this incident will certainly not contribute to a good reputation. So I'd like to ask you to explain the whole incident and explain your personal position where we don't want to apologize to these tourists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u93	I thank Mr Karel Krejza. The answer will take place within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. We continue to interpel Mrs Pavla Golasowská to the Minister of Health. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u94	Thank you for the floor. Have a lovely afternoon, gentlemen, ministers, esteemed colleagues. Dear Minister, I meet with comments from citizens who, at the time of their hospitalization, were placed in a room with a person who is so-called homeless and whose behavior is unpleasant and traumatic for co-patients. One example of many. There was an 80-year-old gentleman in his room who was robbed of money, borrowed his towel and toiletries, all without permission, of course. The Lord could not defend himself, only orally, which the admonished did not take into account. The family that came to visit the master turned to complaints about the staff and was told that unfortunately there is nothing to be done about it, that it sometimes happens and they have no measures to eliminate these situations. Minister, I would like to ask whether you know about these situations in hospitals and whether you realize how uncomfortable this situation is especially for elderly patients who are either immobile or whose mental state does not allow them to defend themselves effectively against them. I also want to ask whether the Ministry is willing, along with the hospital directors, to take measures to eliminate or effectively address these situations. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u95	Good evening. Thank you, too. And Minister Vojtěch has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u96	Mr President, Madam Members, thank you for the question. It is very difficult, of course, because homeless people are also people and apply the same laws to all citizens of the Czech Republic who are insured in the Czech Republic. The Public Health Insurance Act does not distinguish whether a person is homeless or economically active or rich. The system is set up so that everyone has the same rights and obligations and the same level of health care even in case of hospitalization. That's a claim. It's given by the Constitution, by law, and that's the situation, of course, and I don't think anyone wants to change it completely, and it's not even entirely possible. Hospitalization must, of course, always be linked to some indication of the treating physician, patient consent, taking into account the current state of health, etc. Of course, if things like this happen that are uncomfortable, then the question is, what hospital was it? Hospitals, of course, within their internal care organisation and some logistics can undoubtedly set some rules in this regard, but this may not be fully addressed by the Ministry of Health. We can only deal with the rules of law settings, namely the Constitution, i.e. Everyone has the same access to health care regardless of their economic background. So this is really more like the individual hospitals, the providers, how they set it up. Of course, if a patient has any bad experience, he can file a complaint. It's under the Health Services Act. It's given to the provider. If the provider fails to deal with it properly, he may then submit it to the competent administrative authority which has granted the authorisation of the provider to provide health services. They are mainly regional authorities, which then deal with this. Of course, if there is any crime, it is necessary to contact the Police of the Czech Republic. However, I repeat, homelessness cannot be a reason for a patient not to be admitted into care, for not being admitted to hospitalization. That's how the law is set for us. We even have such solidarity that even if a person does not pay any public health insurance premiums, he is entitled to full care. If that care costs tens of millions per person and that person doesn't pay a penny of insurance, he's still gonna get that care. That's how it's set up with us. Of course, we can talk about whether it's right or not, but that's what the Constitution and the law are counting on, and I don't think anyone has the desire or the will to change that. So, unfortunately, that's all I can say. I guess we can't solve this, they're more of an individual case. As I say, patients, if they have any bad experience, can complain or, of course, turn to the police. And then it's up to the individual hospitals to set up a process within their internal structure to treat these people, how they might be put in some other room, set logistics differently. But as the Department of Health, I don't think we can do anything about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u97	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u98	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Of course, the homeless person was cited as an example, because this is exactly what happened. I don't want to question the health insurance system that's really set up for everyone. I just wanted to say that it doesn't have to be just a homeless person, it could be a person with a mental illness or just in some other situation. But what I wanted to know -- does that mean these people can file a complaint against the hospital director? And then I wanted to ask you, as a ministry, if you know about it, if the hospital directors are looking at the Ministry of Health, and if you know how to deal with them or how to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u99	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u100	Thank you for the floor. I do not personally register these complaints, although I know that in practice there can be such a problem. But I think it's up to every director to figure it out. That's his responsibility. He's responsible for taking care of the hospital. I'm saying how it sets up, how it sets up some logistics, etc. So we don't have that information, or at least I don't know about it. But the patient's right to complain certainly exists, the Health Services Act counts on it. I repeat once again, if management, or the hospital director, fails to comply with the complaint, then it is possible to contact the regional authority most often, which has granted authorisation for the provision of health services. He is obliged to deal with this complaint. And, of course, there may still be a judicial review, but that's an ultimative solution. So there are some ways to complain about this system, but we don't have this evidence, and we don't have information from the directors that it would be a systemic problem. Again, it's up to the directors to figure it out in their hospitals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u101	Thank you. This is the end of this interpelation. I beg you to interpel Mrs Richterová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Němcová in the matter of changing the dosage systems. Mr Elfmark will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u102	Thank you for your word. It is rather difficult to address the absent minister. I'll try. Dear absent Minister Němcová, we have already heard in the interview how substantial changes you are about to make, substantial changes that can affect thousands to tens of thousands of people who need housing supplements and hundreds of thousands of people who are entitled to housing contributions. It has all to do with how the preparation of the social housing law is being discussed. Dear absent Minister Němcová, in fact, from the proposals that have been made on the subject of the Social Housing Act at the Ministry of Regional Development and also from the amendment on state social support, it follows that all of this, which you are proposing quickly and when I say confusedly, will require a large number of organizational and personnel changes, not only in employment offices, but also in municipalities and in the whole wide area of social work. So, given how quickly the proposals presented by you change after various comments and how the parameters of the reform are adjusted from week to week, I am also interested in what data please be given in the proposals for changes, in the adjustments, in the preparations of everything called novels, e.g. State Social Support Act, you are. Is there any specific study, any reasonable estimate, material that would assess the very implications for personnel security at the state authorities? [[Time warning]] And how much will these changes cost as a result of the state bill? These are specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u103	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary will answer you within 30 days. And now I beg Mr Elfmark, who will interpel the Minister Brabec on the issue of wolves in the countryside, and Mr Ferjenčík will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. I have a question for Minister Brabec. We discussed the issue of wolves at the environmental committee's exit meeting. I don't know if you've seen this in the media, but some of the breeders have been dealing with this problem because wolves are killing some animals. My question is: Is the Ministry of the Environment planning measures on how to solve this matter here, whether it will somehow subsidize, for example, electric fences, wooden fences or herding dogs? In what way did a wolf return to the wild after a hundred and five years, how will he help the little ones in this matter? 'Cause personally, I don't think it's the solution for us to start reducing the wolves. Like I said, they came back to us after a hundred and five years, he's a natural predator, black animals have multiplied in our country, so I see clearly as positive that the wolf has returned to us. It will probably not be a problem in the future with just a wolf, we have a problem, as has been announced, with an otter. It could also be a beaver problem, a fox, and so on. And on that wolf, it's quite an example of how the Ministry of the Environment will take the position and how it will try to help those petty farmers in general, farmers. So my question is how the Ministry of the Environment will help these breeders here and how they will manage not to reduce the number of wolves living in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u105	Well, thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer. It's yours, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u106	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues. Mr President, thank you for the question. I'm having an animal day. So there were otters, now he's a wolf. Of course, they have one thing in common, even if the otters have been here for a long time and they've only been almost wiped out. You are right, the wolf returns to the Czech and Moravian regions after more than a hundred years and, of course, conflicts are beginning to arise. And what society saw as the real return of an attractive predator, so today some breeders see it as a serious problem, because of course the situation is for them where there are expanding wolf packs, more complicated in herds, especially sheep, goats, but also cattle, because of course the wolf is colliding quite without a problem even the calf, which until now has been free in pastures. And, of course, now those breeders have problems they didn't have before. Of course we're happy about the wolf's return. However, it is also necessary to be involved in resolving those conflicts that are taking place today in Broumov region, but also in Sumava or within Kokořínsko, Mácha Region, where, among other things, there was an exit meeting of the Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies and the issue of the wolf was also dealt with by the agricultural committee. So you can see that the subject is really very lively. And now what we're going to do, not just what we're going to do, but what we're doing. Because on the general level, let's say, first of all, there's an interesting transfer of experience. Because with the wolf has long experience Poland, Saxony, Bavaria and other countries, also Slovakia. Even, and I must say, it is not a pattern for us at this time, but for example, in Slovakia, more than 90 to 100 wolf are hunted annually under the exception. We know that large debates are currently taking place in Germany, in the two Länder that I have talked about, and there is an interest in the acceptance of a wolf in a man- modified cross-border landscape. This is also the name of the joint project in which the Czech and German parties participate. Other very specific measures, and they are already financed today, are preventive measures, as you mentioned exactly, when, through the Operational Programme Environment, i.e. European funds, in the framework of action to prevent, minimise and remedy damage caused by specially protected animal species, investment in measures to prevent or effectively reduce damage can be supported. For example, it is already mentioned by you system of protection or improvement of existing enclosure or acquisition of herding dog. The projects are accepted by the State Environmental Fund and the minimum cost is CZK 100,000. We already have a number of breeders who use this system. And, of course, the amount of damages is increasing. For example, in 2017, compensation was paid for the damage caused by the wolf of CZK 788 thousand, which seems relatively small, but it is eight times the amount paid in 2014. And it is clear that these amounts will grow. So one thing is prevention, the other thing is optimization, let's say, or compensation for damage. And the third is also optimization of the damage compensation because we initiated negotiations that were also with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Association of Sheep and Goat Breeders who have the practical experience. We also discussed taking into account the breeding value of animals, which means that the replacement should take into account not only the price of meat, but also that the animal, of course, has its breeding value. And that is why we have also called for these aspects to be considered and for better conditions to be taken into account by regional authorities in calculating the damage they pay, in fact, for breeders, more favourable conditions than today. But in conclusion, I would like to say that the issue will really be obvious, as the wolf pack will spread, so it will really be necessary for both departments, both the environment and agriculture, to be actively involved in it, so that it does not happen that breeders will defend themselves and shoot wolves uncontrollably.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u107	Well, thank you. Mr. President, please. He's not interested in an additional answer. In that case, the interpellation is over. I call on Mr Ferjenčík to intercede the absent minister of Metnar on the apology of Israeli tourists. And Mr Dolínek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u108	Thank you for the floor. I happen to have the same interpellation as my colleague Krejza from another side. I'd like to send an answer to his. Anyway, I'm running into the same case. But I wanted to ask you some follow-up questions, so I don't repeat the whole thing. The first thing is how often it happens that the police arrest someone other than the person they're looking for. That means if the police have any statistics on what percentage of cases they're holding people illegally and if they're taking any corrective measures to prevent it in the future. Information from the press indicates that the hit wasn't completely handled. Secondly, I wanted to ask if the standard procedure is that the police first lead the detainees as convicts out on the street, and then legitimize them and find out it's completely different. Well, I'd like to ask the Minister these two questions. And finally, of course, I'd like to ask if he's reconsidering his claim that an apology is not appropriate. Because if someone arrests you with a machine gun, they'll step on your neck, and then the minister will say that an apology isn't appropriate and that he can complain, in quotes, in a lamp office, that's a real joke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u109	I just want to warn you, Mr. President, that you can't ask a full answer to the questions of another Member, so you and the Minister can sort it out. Or, in some way, read the question properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u110	I'm asking the Minister to give me the answer he's going to give to my colleague Krejza, because it's the same interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u111	Thank you, and we'll move on. I beg Mr Dolínek, who will interpelise Minister Němcová on the remuneration of public servants. Madam Secretary is not present. And Mr Luzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u112	Good afternoon. Madam Secretary, I am interrogating on one thing, where in the past several posts have already been made in this regard and from other Members' clubs, and that is whether you are aware of the situation that employees in private companies take more in large cities than in the rest of the Republic. Although the differences are gradually decreasing, public sector employees have the same spreadsheet salaries, whether they work in Brno, Ostrava or Prague. I know that this has been said several times, but I would still like to ask again - the core problem is that the costs for public sector employees are significantly different when we take some cities, it is 7, 8, 12 %, in Prague even up to 20 percent higher costs than in the rest of the Republic, while table salaries are broadly the same and this factor does not take into account anything. However, if we want to have good public employees everywhere, we must adapt to the price level in the region, city or village. That is why I ask: Do you think it is right, Madam Secretary, that civil servants in their municipalities, but especially in those large cities - Brno, Ostrava and Prague - should have de facto the lowest salaries in relation to life costs, while doing the same work as other civil servants in the rest of the country? That means, in your opinion, it's okay that the same job is being done by the man in his town - it's mostly those three big cities - worse than elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u113	Thank you, too. I beg Mr Luzar, who will intersect the absent Minister Metnar on the report on extremism. Mr. Kaňkovský will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, before I give you my word, I have a note from Minister Brabec, who left us for business reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr absent Secretary of the Interior. Yesterday's day was quite interesting because there was actually a non-existent report on extremism. I consider this to be a rather large faux passport committed by your ministry when it provided either excerpts to certain groups of journalists or this whole report on extremism, which again and very much liked to quote from it. Of course, the other party, to which the question was addressed, did not know anything about it, because it has not yet officially or unofficially received this report. I am talking about this because we, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, sometimes have this problem that we have to answer questions that we don't really know from which title they are asked, because those reports are received earlier by journalists than by the appropriate parties. It is worth mentioning the wording of your press department, which speaks of the fact that this report has undergone internal commentary proceedings and - I quote - the exact length of the approval process cannot be accurately determined, depends on the dates of the meetings of the Internal Security Committee, the Security Council of the State and the Government. Documentary work is still ongoing. If I understand that this is a document in which commentary proceedings are taking place, I would recommend that, if possible, that in the next report, which is certainly interesting and certainly should be comprehensive, there should also be a point of reference, affected, the one to which the report is heading. In other words, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, such as the SPD, maybe other political parties, if mentioned as a risk. So that the report on extremism can be comprehensive and that those concerned can prepare for their comments, comment on it, and answer all the press' questions accordingly. Because you'll admit that there's nothing worse than answering something you don't actually know, and the journalist is clearly winning over you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u115	Thank you, too. The Minister will answer you within 30 days. I ask Mr Kaňkovský for an interpellation in which he will interpelise Minister Vojtěch on the distribution of medicines. Mr Jelínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u116	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Minister, I will follow up on the interpellation that Mr Pawlas, a Member of Parliament, has had here today and concerns the availability of medicines for citizens of the Czech Republic. Not just the two of us, but surely here in the House, we agree that no citizen of the Czech Republic must be denied access to medicines that he urgently needs because of his health. This right of the patient is enshrined mainly in the Act on Medicines, but also in other legislation. You spoke here in reply to the fact that there was a problem after the last amendment of the Drug Act in the last parliamentary term. Perhaps those who were here during the last parliamentary term remember that there was quite an exciting discussion about this amendment. I completely disagree with the fact that the Ministry could not comment on this, yes, there was no classical commentary procedure, but it was discussed very closely at several working meetings and then at the Committee on Health, then at plenary and then in the Senate. The D.O.D. has spoken about this. We're not going to change that at this point in time for the amendment to take place. However, at this point, we must implement a valid law. The situation at this point really is as Pawlas mentioned here. In a number of pharmacies and relatively common medications patients miss and patients then expect humiliating tourism in pharmacies in the surroundings or more remote surroundings, or calling pharmacies where they are able to get their medicine. I am convinced that the task of the Ministry of Health and the State Institute for Drug Control is to oversee compliance with the law and make amends. You said here that you are preparing a change of legislation, which I welcome, of course, but we must do something for the patients at this time. And you also mentioned here that at the heart of the dispute is the determination of the so-called market share. [[Vice-President Pikal: time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Nevertheless, I am convinced that this too can be resolved at present. So I want to ask you, Minister, what will be done by the Ministry of Health and the State Institute for Drug Control to comply with the Act on Medicines, so that Czech patients are not exposed to humiliating tourism in Czech pharmacies? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u117	I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a little more complicated. When we look at how many medicines are traded in our country, it is 8 288 codes, of which 5 506 is covered by public health insurance. Of course, it is clear that no pharmacy can have the entire product range on the market at the time. It's not even technically possible. When I asked what the situation was today, he accepted the SÚKL by 30. 5. five suggestions directly from pharmacists and one through representatives of the Czech Pharmacy Chamber. They're not dozens of impulses, they're really units. So it's also a question of how big the problem is, is it really systemic, or is it a problem of individual cases? But I don't want to downplay him, I'm sure he doesn't, there's definitely a problem, I don't want to downplay him. I repeat, here he amended - I happened to be there when I worked at the Ministry of Finance, I watched it - amended the Act on Drugs, put the amendment there, yes, there was a discussion about him. On the other hand, it is true that the Ministry of Health was not entirely in favour of this amendment, it drew attention to the problems that are and which are unfortunately still there, because the amendment was simply adopted in that version. The fact that there is not clearly given the competence of the person or entity, i.e. the State Institute for Drug Control, to determine market shares, is not clearly stated there, on the basis of what is to be counted on, whether only from prescription drugs, or also from freely sold, whether it should be the volume expressed financially, or the volume expressed in number of packages, etc., is simply not defined anywhere, how to determine the market share. And that is the problem of the fact that it was done this way, let's say on the knee, by the amendment, it was not properly discussed. But, of course, it's too late to chase, it's in the law. I am merely saying that we, at present and not the SÚKL, can effectively enforce this on the basis of the current legislation, and it is necessary to adopt a change of legislation which can certainly not be a matter of years. We're working on it. We're basically 80 percent ready for change. It's her working group. We want to make this proposal by the end of the year. [[16.30 hours]] We want to go the Slovak way. I think the Slovák have it very well done. The obligation is passed on not to the distributor, but to the manufacturer and manufacturer must hold a certain amount of medication. Based on the so-called emergence system, it must deliver a cure within 48 hours. The pharmacy, if it doesn't have the medicine, will turn to the manufacturer, and it must deliver the drug, not the distributor. Of course, the manufacturer can deliver it through the distributor, he can deliver it himself. It doesn't matter anymore, but the obligation will be transferred to the manufacturer. This is how it works in Slovakia and I think very well. This is a better case than the obligation to have on distributors, for one simple reason that we still have a relatively large volume of reexports, which are being carried out by distributors - unfortunately, in some cases even pharmacies, which is illegal, it is legal for distributors. On the other hand, if the drug isn't available, it's not legal either, but it's happening. The reporters are here. I hope that we will also change legislation again in this way following Slovakia's model, when, as in the case of drug delivery emergence, the question of reporting should also be on products that should simply decide who will distribute the drugs. Although there was some debate about whether this is in line with European law, it is, according to my information, so we need to make these two changes. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It is a question of setting up legislation for reexports and then the question of the emergence of the supply of drugs, and the obligation will be on the products. We will prepare this in the order of months. We now believe that the law is not good in the present state and it is not the obligation to apply it completely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u119	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question, so please hurry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u120	I'm just a short gloss. This is mostly about patients. That means there may not be dozens of complaints from pharmacists, but there are dozens of complaints from patients. Surely every small pharmacy cannot have all the medicines in stock, but it has the right to request them. And the third one. Yes, it's problematic, but the pharmacists already sent you a letter complaining about the approach, and it wasn't individuals, it was their whole association. They quote an important expert on commercial law and competition protection, Mr Michal Petr, who concluded that it is now possible to calculate a market share and that it should be carried out by the State Institute for Drug Control. That means we're gonna argue here whether it's possible or not. It's not easy, but I'm convinced it's not impossible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u121	Thank you. I beg the Minister if he's interested in a reaction. He's interested. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u122	Thank you. Yes, to say that something is possible, that is true, but there is still a question of how it is possible. That's the second thing. It declares something quite simple, but then it must also be said how to do it. I'm just convinced that the law, the way it's written, doesn't say how. He says yes to do so, but there are no rules. And that's the problem. So we simply want to set the rules, we want to set them by legislation, so that they are not in any way questionable, so that this does not lead to any dispute in the future. We do it, we see it as a problem, I don't want to downplay it, but we have to change the law properly in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u123	Thank you, too. This is the end of the interpellation. I ask a Member of Pavel Jelínek, who will intersect the absent minister of Metnar on the conduct of homeless people. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I have a note from Mr. Ferjenčík, who has been apologizing to us since 16.30 for personal reasons for the rest of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u124	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Minister, as I travel by public transport a lot, I could not help but notice the increased number of homeless people in close proximity to Olomouc Central Station. Since they are people excluded from ordinary society, their behavior is a very distant standard of others, and other people are rightly afraid of them. They are also often drunk, or even under the influence of addictive substances that are close to aggressive and life - threatening behavior. These people often carry out the need on the spot, as they have already lost all their inhibitions. Their behavior, of course, brings corruption, which results in the call of the police. And here's the question I'd like to ask you. Called patrol will essentially attempt to identify these persons, calling them to keep order. And that's it. If there's no physical assault on a police officer, they'll leave after a while. However, this does not solve the problem of aggressive people who often demand change at ticket machines. Since this is a problem in practically the entire territory of our Republic, I ask you, Minister, whether the police have any possibility of dealing with this obviously dangerous situation and, if not, whether the Ministry is preparing a legislative proposal to address this situation. If the answers are negative, I ask you politely to participate actively in the debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u125	Thank you, too. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel Minister Took in the matter of myth, myth, myth. Mr Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u126	Dear Minister, I have two very simple questions. Firstly, a fine of CZK 1 million was granted to the Ministry of Transport a year and a half ago by the ÚOHS during the award of a public contract for the operation of the toll system. Has this fine already been paid? Secondly, what are you doing to prevent this extremely unfortunate situation from happening again? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u127	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I'll read two note cards. He apologizes to us from 16 o'clock until the end of the negotiations for working reasons, Mr Kolovratník, and apologises to us from 16 o'clock to 19 o'clock because of Mrs Balcarová's negotiations. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u128	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will try two simple answers to these simple questions. First of all, in his statement by the UOHS on this fine, the Ministry of Transport stated that the situation in the past, that is, sometime in 2005, 2007, caused itself and therefore caused itself to have to write JŘBU for the extension of the tender. I just want to say that it was the only way to get to the fact that we were able to write a contest. Of course, the fine was due and we paid it. The Bureau paid for it. What we're doing isn't to make it happen. Well, the other thing is, we're competing, we've put up a competition, and now there's a battle going on about whether this competition will last, and we won't have to deal with any of the extraordinary means.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u129	Thank you. I'd like to ask the lady if she's interested in a follow-up question. He does, so please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u130	Thank you for your brief answers. However, you said the competition was ongoing. What stage is it at right now? If I have the right information from the press, if you could confirm it. Of course, the million crowns are not little money. If the Department of Transport lost it, do you seek compensation for anybody? Who's responsible? I don't mean political, but material. So what stage is it at, and if you could still describe the situation that concerns the current competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u131	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u132	First question. Unfortunately, all persons who were involved in the contract negotiations in 2006 have not worked at the Ministry for a long time. In other words, to lead with them, I would say, some proceedings, especially proceedings as an employee, cannot be conducted. So we didn't approach any of them for that reason. As far as the competition is concerned, the competition has taken place. The qualification took place, preliminary offers were submitted, the evaluation was carried out and the designation of the winning candidate was made. At present, the ÚOHS primarily complied with Kapsch's objections to the cancellation of the competition. We've filed a breakdown against this annulment. The decomposition is now in the hands of the President and the decomposing committees, which, at a legal time, I presume, will answer. If anyone would like to read the breakdown and get acquainted with our arguments, it's on the Ministry of Transport's website.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u133	Thank you. That concludes this interpelation. I therefore ask Mr Luzar, who will intersect Minister Pelikán in the case of the Supreme Administrative Court and the punishment of judges, and will prepare Mrs Golasowská. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u134	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I want to thank you for your courage. The courage that you tried to exonerate the judge. I suppose the findings that led you to this were so serious that you chose this extreme, really extreme element. All the more I am surprised by the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which did not respond in terms of your proposal, and not only of your proposal, but also of Dr. Šámal, who proposed the same thing. The text I had the opportunity to read is spoken, and I do not want to quote directly, but it says that the situation was difficult because we could not use e.g. cell phone taps. In other words, there is direct evidence in this criminal case that is currently being dealt with that can't be used. Once again, if I'm not mistaken, the court decided that even if there was direct evidence, the defense argued that they couldn't be used, he still admitted them. In other words, I am heading for, for example, Mr Rath, who used a similar defense. Of course, the punishments of the judges, or what they call them, are still being dealt with by the Supreme Administrative Court. But isn't it finally time, really, to deal with it a little differently? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u135	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question. I did, and not only in one case, but in a few cases, suggested that the disciplinary court be relieved of office, and failed. I'm not happy with that, of course. On the other hand, I must say that this is a court-martial, so that it does not always comply with those proposals. So I don't think it's anything scandalous about this again. But, overall and long-term, I am afraid that today's system of disciplinary justice in the case of judges and executors tends to be very mild and often very protective, or ensures that they are not unduly harmed by judges or executors. It's like he forgot a little bit that those judges and executors are putting other citizens in their hands, and if this escapes the righteous punishment of a bad judge or a bad executor, then it will affect the rights of many others. For this reason too, the Ministry is preparing a new amendment, which will then be submitted to Parliament if my successor or successor does not change the direction of the Ministry in this respect, and where the Ministry would like to change the system, because today there are Parliamentary Senates. It must be said that this is the Supreme Administrative Court, but it is not the Supreme Administrative Court judges, there are three judges and three lawyers from other professions - one prosecutor, one lawyer, one representative of another profession - and, in the event of a tie, it is even automatically decided on innocence. So it's always in favor of the judge. And it's a one-stage drive. And all of this, it seems, really leads to great mildness. Informal reports are such that often the milder solution is paradoxically promoted by the dissenters. Judges would sometimes be tougher on their colleagues, and they are not allowed to do so. We want to propose a new amendment within the framework of the amendment, a big amendment planned for next year, a law on courts and judges, where, on the one hand, a two-step procedure would be introduced, probably with a slightly different composition of the Chambers, would be introduced, or would be modified, at last, today it is not regulated practically at all, even the procedure, and also the possibility of using evidence that has been obtained in another procedure and is not applicable today. And most importantly, they would name the most common facts with rates of, say, punishment. Because today for any disciplinary offense, all options are already available from the warning to the removal of the function. And if the House is unhappy with it for a long time, which seems to me that it is, then it should have the opportunity to adjust this. And how to adjust it, as we have it in the Code of Criminal Procedure, where according to the type of severity of the various facts, the legislator also shows his idea of where the sanctions should be moving. You can keep an eye on my successor or successor if she presents this to you, and I believe she will improve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u137	Thank you, too. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. He does. A question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u138	Just a quick question. I firmly believe, Minister, that as soon as you hand over your position, there will be a ribbon file on that large table, and that will be your proposal to hand over and send it to the government. So if it is passed on like this, of course, as Members, we can ask a new minister where it is, why it is not yet in the government, why it is not yet here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u139	Thank you. I beg the Minister if he's interested in a follow-up answer. He does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u140	Well, I'll admit it's not gonna be like that, because the proposal is supposed to be complex, and he's got other things in it, so the work, that's why it's planned for next year, the work is going on intensively, it's supposed to be a big reform of justice. But let's say this is already fixed in this way, so you can train the successor in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u141	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mrs Golasowská, who will intersect the absent minister of Metnar in the matter of the employability of foreigners. Mr. Adamec will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u142	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, the situation on the labour market is very favourable for those looking for work, but the people who could or would like to work are very slow, virtually. They're not at all. That is why many companies turn to foreigners to supplement the workforce, which companies desperately, and I stress, are really desperate to call. The problem is that it takes a really long time to process the permission of foreigners to apply to the labour market due to the situation in companies. One example. We have the end of May and foreign employees for a certain company went through interviews already in April. But the company is still waiting for them. I have a question for you, Minister, and also a request to see if it would be possible to meet the companies and grant permission to foreigners as soon as possible, of course, if they have all the essentials in order to do so as soon as possible, so that the companies do not lose their jobs so that they can fill their vacancies. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u143	Thank you for a quick question. The Minister is not present, he will answer you within 30 days. Please Mr Adamec, who will interpel Minister Took on billboards by the roads. Mr Jelínek will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation surrounding the removal of billboards, which are contrary to the law placed on motorways in our Republic. If memory doesn't deceive me, a law was already passed in 2012, which said that these billboards had to be removed within a five-year period. If I have the right information, the deadline ended in September 2017. And now that I'm driving down the highway here to Prague, to the Chamber of Deputies, the Czech flags that "dress up" these billboards are still very many, and the closer you get to Prague, the thicker the series of billboards get. I'd like to ask you what stage it is, what you're going to do for it, because I recently received an email message from the company, or it's some group called Kverulant, and they're operating there with the fact that one of these unauthorized billboards, or already placed there in violation of the law, was actually the result of a fatal car crash. And of course, this company is threatening criminal charges, or I don't know if it's some kind of association of people. So I'm wondering what stage this is, because I think it's been a relatively long time, and it's been five years to prepare for this removal. I wonder what stage it is. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u145	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u146	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, I would like to take such a short historical excursion. The bill, which spoke of the removal of billboards, was sent to the legislative process in 2010. At the time it was an effort, very loudly declared that we would remove all billboards not only around highways, but also in cities. During the whole legislative process, the intention changed several times. He ended up adopting an amendment to Act 56, which specified these things, and there was only a ban on billboards on the highways and roads of the first classes, and we are still debating the permanently built territory and other things about billboards that are in the cities. Unfortunately, during the legislative process, even in transitional provisions, there are a lot of things that complicate the overall cancellation of these billboards. If I take it from that point of view, you're right that in that law in 2012, the so-called five-year pre-clusive time was when billboard owners were supposed to remove billboards. Unfortunately, they didn't. About 14 days, three weeks before the deadline in which they were to do this, there were about 14 senators who gave a constitutional complaint that this provision of the law was too harsh and should be deleted that it was an anti-business measure. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court did not decide. However, billboard owners took this provision as a hostage, that they should not remove those billboards in the Constitutional Court's decision. It's not true, we're removing it, of course. For your information, we've removed less than 500 advertising devices from the highways. There's about 1,300 of them, so part of them is removed. The removal is quite complicated. I'm sorry the owners here, if they wanted to remove it, it could have been all gone by now. They only covered it with that mark. [[A flag?]] As I said before, the procedure under the Road Act is administratively very demanding. For each advertising device, we must check that its operation is indeed contrary to the legislation and that the conditions for its removal, including the conditions laid down in that transitional provision, are met. For example, with this law and its transitional conditions, all billboards need not be removed. Billboards that were allowed as a construction agency before the change of building law, so they have the right to remain there. So it's kind of a complicated thing. And I have to say, considering that there isn't much order in those contracts both at the Ministry and at the ŘSD from the past, it's quite complicated. In addition, the Ministry of Transport is facing obstructive actions by the owners of advertising equipment, complaints and several cases have already been brought to court. Owners, for example, conflict with the competence of the Ministry of Transport or when dismantling the advertising equipment itself to workers The Road and Motorway Directorate is calling the police to point out that their property is being destroyed. Usually, during the entire trial, the owner says it's not his and it's not to be dealt with. As soon as he comes out, he says it's his, and he asks the police to protect his property. Unfortunately, most police have to intervene and prevent the ŘSD from removing it. So all these things are pretty complicated. These are the facts that delay the removal process considerably. We have now decided to go another way, that we will now simply ask the construction office to declare it a black building, and, as such, we will remove it and transfer the costs to the next one. That means we don't intend on this extra agenda, we don't have enough capacity for it, we're going to lose it, and we're definitely going to continue it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u147	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. He does. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u148	Thank you for your answer. But then I wonder who's gonna take it out of the building department's decision. Because now that it's been in the Ministry of Transport, it's clear that it's going beyond the Ministry of Transport. But the construction authorities here, I'm worried it'll go to someone else. The Department of Transport? I overheard some conditioning on the money to repair the communications. That's probably how I heard it wrong, so that calmed me down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u149	I beg the Minister if he wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u150	Just to be clear. The costs go to the Road and Motorway Directorate, after which they go to the Ministry of Transport. The only thing we had in our grant title for twos and threes is that there shouldn't be illegal billboards on county property. So it's just that it has to be on their property. It's mostly on bridges or land belonging to those regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u151	Well, thank you, too. To further interpel, please, Mr Jelínek, who will interpel the absent Minister Brabec on the results of the Operational Programme Environment. Mr. Kaňkovský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u152	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Minister, within the framework of the Operational Programme Environment in the field of improving water quality and reducing flood risk, water purity is a priority axis, a number of mechanical and biological sewage treatment plants and sewage systems have been built in many municipalities as part of the challenges. The rules of these challenges should help municipalities with a small population to achieve this technology, which significantly improves water quality both surface and ground. There is currently a significant decline in the abundance of private water resources, and the issue of water cleanliness or recycling of waste water for further use is strategic for the future of our country. My question is: How many municipalities with up to a thousand inhabitants are equipped with a mechanical-biological sewage treatment plant and a sewage system? How many were built within this priority axis and what is the saturation of this technology in these municipalities, and whether the Ministry has an overview of the regions, the percentage of municipalities not equipped with this technology? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u153	Thank you, too. The Minister will send you his reply within 30 days. Let's move on. I beg Mr Kaňkovský, who will intersect Minister Milek in the matter of bark sludge. Mrs Maříková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u154	Dear Minister, the barking calamity has plagued our forests for the third year and everything suggests that this year may be critical in this regard. All owners fight the calamity, whether it be the Forests of the Czech Republic, the Military Forests, or the Central and Small Owners. At this point, the barking calamity is burning in a number of regions, and unfortunately, the situation can be expected to deteriorate further. Dear Minister, you responded to the current situation surrounding the barking process by appealing the Director General of the Forests of the Czech Republic. I don't want to criticize this move, it's your right. But I want to ask you what else you have done specifically to master the cruststorm and, above all, you intend to do, because in my opinion, merely personnel changes will not solve the situation. And now for specific questions. How will you proceed with the operation of the Forest of the Czech Republic in connection with the established business model, through which long-term contracts are concluded with contractual partners, who are currently unable to cope with bark sludge, and do not manage it because of the extremely multiplied crust, lack of working capacity, poor financial valuation, unsure logging of timber transport by state firms, poor rendering and storage of wood so that the bark is finishing its development and returning to the forests? What necessary steps are you planning to take to prevent the spread of bark sludge by the end of June of this year and how you cooperate with other resorts such as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Environment. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u155	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u156	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, yes, the barking calamity will certainly not ease this year, and I am afraid that if we look at the weather at the moment, what is the climate in the most affected areas, I think this year will certainly be at least culminating. I just want to start by saying that in the most affected areas, which is central and northern Moravia, since the beginning of the year only 20 percent of the rainfall has fallen, which, of course, will increase, and further in this area, according to the weather service, the announced increase in the average annual temperature over this period has been 5.5 degrees, which is a huge climate change at this point in time. The measures we're going to take. In addition to personnel measures, of course when I came to the office, so I found out I called, it was around 30 January, a meeting of all the owners of the forests of the Czech Republic, i.e. there were representatives of the Forests of the Czech Republic, Military Forests, Archbishop Forests and so-called. SVOL, which are owners of municipal and private forests in the Czech Republic. These people represent more than 90 percent of the owners of the Czech Republic. I asked them because I'm not the only woodpecker who's stopping them from quickly destroying and proceeding with the crust. They clearly replied: Decree 101 and its obsolescence, as it is conceived. This decree has already been amended within two and a half months, today it is valid, just to point out the main difference. The old decree said how we have to fight the crust, that we have to cut down healthy trees, lay jailers, etc., and the more we have harvested barkwood (?) In the past, in the previous year, the more we have to lay healthy trees and into them the bark will flow, and thus we will kill him. This procedure was outdated and these measures, including pheromones, were ineffective in this mass occurrence of bark. Also, this decree said that all the trees affected by bark, even the land, where the bark has already been peeled off, you know, a tree without bark, must be primarily cleaned out of the vegetation, which I dare say, I'm a layman, but it's completely stupid. These trees, first of all, no bug will fly out of them, no bug will fly into them, and it will not multiply. It's in those raw trees that we didn't have the capacity at the time, because we were still fighting those dry trees. So we've changed the decree that dry trees and inert trees can be left in the woods for later destruction, extraction, etc., and we've focused on fighting and searching for the infected trees and destroying the larvae of these beetles in the affected trees. Unfortunately, we are dealing with relatively weak capacity of human forces and harvesters and so on machine combinations. Of course, I processed the government material so that the government could see what the situation was serious, we did the first meeting, it was at the Ministry of Agriculture, it happened today that the second round took place at the Office of the Government, where we invited all the relevant departments. The Ministry of Transport was represented there, there were ČD Cargo, SŽDC, there were Czech Railways. We agreed that by the end of the year České dráhy will purchase or ensure a minimum increase of 500 wagons to transport wood, because the roads are crowded today, we are unable to move the amount and the track is the only permeable at this time. We also agreed, there were representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, there was Mr. Beneš, CEO of ČEZ, there is also a variant of burning this non-standard wood and the least quality barkwood that we would burn it for energy, but that will be the limit. We continued to agree not to burden and crowd the processors with wood today, we agreed to set up a so-called. wet and dry warehouses. Originally we wanted to do most wet warehouses, wet warehouses unfortunately with a lack of water, which today is in all regions, and the great needs of water to sprinkle these logs we have to leave, we will have only a few, but we will do so called. dry landfills that we're going to bring in a processed round, and now we have to get this round out of here. We're going to administer it either by chemical spraying, which has been done so far, but it's also quite challenging, but it turns out to be a new path. You've noticed, yesterday it was also in the paper, we've been working on it for about 14 days, we need to get a quick authorisation for ethylenedionitrile. It's a chemical that's breaking down, there's no residues, it's made by a Czech company, and it's able to deliver about a million cc's for this season. [[Attention on time.]] I'm sorry. So I think we're taking precautions, but unfortunately, the weather that's out there doesn't offer any guarantee that this barking calamity will end immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u157	I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u158	Thank you, Minister. I have some additional questions. First of all, I want to ask you what you're going to do for the smallest owners, because they have quite a lot of problems, and not only with the processing of the barkwood, but with planting. That's the first question. Then I want to ask: Experts point out that a very effective solution would be to declare an emergency in the most affected locations. The information's different. Once you announce an emergency, not for the second time, and this has to do with how you work with the Regional Association to ensure precisely logistical measures and the possibility of declaring an emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u159	I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u160	So additional questions about what we're going to do for the smallest processors and forest owners. So, first of all, we're going to raise about 300 million subsidies to rebuild forests, which are just for the non-state sector. As far as the Forests of the Czech Republic are concerned, the wood storage will take place up to a million 200,000 cc's, so that we can stabilize the price of wood on the market so that there is nowhere to put it. In order for others to sell wood to you, the forests of the Czech Republic will hold their wood. And the last question was? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Emergency status announcement. So even today it was on the agenda, this question, but we're going to try to do it without declaring an emergency, because you know that when an emergency is declared, and it was necessary in the pig plague in the Zlin region, there is a ban on entering the forest. Maybe we'd have to cancel the pioneer camps in that area, etc. I think that's what we're able to dispose of, the crust, even without declaring an emergency, but I'm not ruling out that we're going to touch it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u161	Thank you and, please, Mrs Maříková, who will interpel Minister Vojtěch on the matter of the supplement to the nurses, and Mr Dolínek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u162	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, there has been a report in the media that nurses could receive CZK 7,000 in the future and not CZK 3,000 in exchange, as is the case today. Since health care is struggling with a large shortage of nurses, which leads to a reduction in hospital operations, the argument that it is necessary to increase salaries to non-medical professions first is fully justified. But aren't you worried that if you add only to the exchange sisters, you'll lose more non-medical personnel? Then who will replace this staff? How do you stop them from leaving? Do you have a preliminary analysis of the financial impact on the state budget, and since when should this increase take place? Will this increase also apply to regional hospitals, and where will they receive funding for this? You also mentioned that you were interested in the idea that sisters would receive a pension at their bedside for worked summers, similar to police officers or firefighters. Since when would the years worked start counting? Would that be backwards? Is this even real, and do you have any idea how much it would weigh on the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u163	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u164	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. Indeed, the problem today in terms of personnel status in the Czech health sector, although I do not want to make light of the question of medical personnel, is primarily in non-medical medical personnel - middle medical staff and lower medical staff. As far as sisters are concerned, there is the most critical situation from the point of view of the Ministry of Health according to the data we have. In fact, the decline in recent years has been very significant. And because the nurses are missing, the beds are closing, the whole department's closing. That's just the way it is. Not because the doctors are missing, but because the sisters are missing. That is why we have decided to make this increase, but of course we also see that there is a problem with the lower medical staff, ambulance workers and so on. And even in this case, we are counting on a certain increase in the exchange surcharge, although it is probably not that high, we are talking about an increase of CZK 2 000 somewhere. So we don't want these other professions, which are definitely important in this operation, too, the ambulance is a great helper for the nurse, so we want to support these professions, so we also plan to increase the exchange surcharge there. And as far as resources are concerned, I want to say, there are resources. But it is about the fact that, of course, we still have a very good economic performance and a very good choice of insurance premiums for public health insurance, plus there will also be an increase in payment for state insured persons again by 3.5 billion. All in all, next year's overselection will be somewhere around 20 billion. CZK, so overall, there will be about 320 billion in the system. Currently, so-called. conciliation between health insurance companies and individual segments, including hospitals. I must say that today agreements with the hospital segment have been signed and hospitals should go somewhere around 11.5 to 12 billion. That's an extra penny. And that will be the means that hospitals will be able to use for this increase. So let's say about 11.5 to 12 billion. Of course, that's what the extra CZK will count on. This will therefore be done by means of public health insurance in the framework of health care payments, and health insurance companies are counting on this increase. This was precisely the case in the conciliation procedure, so it is to be considered. As far as the debts are concerned, this is, of course, a subject that has aroused quite a lot of debate. The truth is that it was the proposal of the nurses themselves, namely one professional organization, the Czech Association of Nurses, within the working group that I set up at the Ministry of Health, which aims to come up with proposals for measures for stabilization in the Czech health care sector. Because it's not just about the actual money. We really need to put more of these things on the table for staff stabilization. And among other things, there was a proposal for this service. So far, it's a proposal that's very fresh. We said we thought it was an interesting suggestion that we would look into it. At the moment, colleagues are actually counting the impacts, so we haven't figured it out yet. I hope that sometime during June, they have the task of presenting some initial analysis. I've been trying to get some feedback, some feedback, if that would be interesting. I have to say, in my travels around the county, I'm asking within the hospital if the benefits could be motivational, and in the vast majority of cases, I hear that they do. So it seems that it could be one of the ways, even though it is of course not all-savvy. But, of course, we have to wait for those real impact analyses, if that's even feasible for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u165	Thank you for keeping time. I beg the lady of the house, if she has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u166	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Will this increase in exchange apply to regional hospitals as well? And where are they going to get the money for that? At present, only 20 percent of high school graduates are considering going to the hospital after graduation to be a nurse, while 80 percent want to work in another field. Do you think the problem is just financial, or is it also because the prestige of this profession has fallen and the profession of a nurse is no longer so attractive to students? How do you want to increase the attractiveness of this field? Is it just finances? Is your ministry preparing a health concept?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u167	Thank you for your follow-up. I beg the Minister if he has an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u168	Thanks for the word. As far as the county hospitals are concerned, there's no difference if it's regional or if it's state. All hospitals in the Czech Republic are paid from public health insurance, have a contract with health insurance companies and are covered by care. And all hospitals were part of this conciliation process, and so they signed an agreement today. So, of course, the increase in funds will go not only to state hospitals established by the Ministry of Health, but also to regional hospitals. There's no difference here. So we're really talking about the roughly 12 billion for the entire acute bed care segment for all hospitals. That's the first answer. As for the attractiveness and the low number of graduates, that is, of course, true. It's true. According to the last data we have, we have 16 graduates per 100,000 inhabitants. So the affair is very, very bad. Of course, there will be a number of reasons. The attractiveness of the profession will certainly be one of them. On the other hand, it is also necessary to look abroad. And unfortunately, unfortunately, the lack of medical personnel is basically a problem today throughout the world. I spoke to the German Minister of Health the other day, who said that 50,000 nurses are missing. I read an article about America missing a huge number of nurses. Canada etc. In short, it is a difficult profession, and not everyone simply has the will to go into it, or to go through it and work in health care. That is why we are trying to prepare the motivational mechanisms, whether they are the debts, whether it is some kindergarten for nurses from the point of view of even preschools within hospitals etc., so that the background is simply the best possible and the working environment for them as friendly as possible. [[Time warning]] Plus, we are still working on the fact that we want to significantly - and this will be already in June - the amendment to the Health Documentation Decree - to significantly reduce medical documentation, which is a great administrative burden. So we're working on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u169	Thank you. I would like to interpel Mr Dolínek, who will interpel Minister Took on the ban on the entry of vehicles. Mrs Pekarová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u170	Good afternoon, Minister. In the past days we have said much about speeding up construction of road infrastructure including D0 in the Czech Republic. D0 is therefore Prague Circuit. However, there are still buildings of the Prague Circuit in sight, just as there is at least a part in sight - construction 511, connecting the D1 motorway to the Hradec motorway, i.e. the D11 motorway. Since you know about the situation, however, I'm interested in your opinion on one thing, so I'm asking. In 2014, the Institute of Health noted that there was a relationship between the influence of particulate matter, mortality and the number of income to hospitals for chronic obstructive disease, bronchoplumonal, cardiac and vascular diseases, for diabetes, symptoms of worsening and need for treatment in asthma or an increasing risk of myocardial infarction, pneumonia, systemic inflammation, surface disorders of the vascular walls, the development of sclerosis, the increase in infection and pulmonary cancer right here in the areas of Prague, particularly and especially in the area of Spořilova. There are about 10,000 people living there, and there are about 11,000 trucks every day, which means every resident has a truck and a piece of his head in the area. So I would like to ask you if, as part of the fact that Prague is trying to ban truck traffic in this area, freight transport over 12 metres, if it is acceptable for you, personally, that tens of thousands of Pražan are permanently exposed to an excessive burden on transit traffic, including truck traffic, including negative impacts on air and public health. If you personally consider it right that the Council of the capital city of Prague is trying to address this within its scope and therefore in this area it is possible to protect the health of these people, which the Council tries for example. No car entry above 12 meters. [[17.20 hours]] Why doesn't the Ministry of Justice help with its actions, rather preventing the capital of Prague from trying to protect these people? And I would like to ask: You repeatedly argue that trucks would have to use other routes, which would have burdened the residents there. [[Attention on time.]] So do you consider the Pražan to be citizens of the second category who can withstand an excessive burden on transit transport better than other residents of the Czech Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u171	Thank you, too, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Before taking the floor, I have here a note from Minister Klára Dostálová, who apologizes to us from 16.30 to the end of the meeting day because of the adoption of Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič of the European Commission. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u172	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I am first of all not an expert in health and I understand that excessive transport is bothering everyone. I am very sorry that the 500 and the entire Prague circuit is no longer finished. I can assure you that from the point of view of the Department of Transport, we are doing everything we can to speed up at least five hundred and eleven. Now we're talking about a zoning decision that should be followed by a building permit, and I'm convinced that in the horizon of two, it could be kicked in and it could shift. As for banning trucks. You know, I feel like... Or like this. I respect every life, every person, wherever he lives. In this case, it's clear that those passing trucks are causing a problem in Spořilov, I know the situation there, and I think there might be some more passive steps to be taken, but here I don't want to be such a mentor without responsibility. On the other hand, I think that a situation in which trucks would be banned from entering communications, which today represent replacement communications for five hundred and eleven, would be a step that would move the problem elsewhere and make it worse. I don't want to read here, I have information from my office, what it would mean if the 11,000 truck current you mentioned instead of the four-way road went into local communications. Some mobile routes are counted up to 85 kilometers if the A's were to be taken. And it would mean a column of those trucks, which, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the transport experts, would have a much worse impact on the environment than those trucks, which are going to pass relatively quickly through the territory that I really, and I admit here, are bothering. That means I'd call for a more sensible approach here. I understand your approach as a representative or representative of the capital city of Prague. You need to fight for the people of Prague. On the other hand, I would appeal to common sense and to a quick solution to the fundamental problem - the completion of the five hundred and eleventh. And some other passive things that could help this thing, because the simple transfer of traffic to other types of local communications could bring far worse consequences than the situation today. And please don't bother about the residents at all, and I understand their difficult situation. But let's move it along so that five hundred and eleven grow up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u173	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u174	Thank you. It's hard to say that we understand them for decades in a row. They're really waiting for a solution. I'm not questioning 500. I think that the leadership of ŘSD as you have in recent years, after succeeding in replacing Minister Prachař, which was a happy move, has done very much and this construction can move forward. And even Prague is now responsible for making it possible. I'm sure that's what we're applying for as a city. But my question is, first of all, if you could write down the solutions in your reply that you mentioned might be appropriate. You implied you didn't want advice, but I'll welcome it. Because if it comes from your pen and your clerks, I'm sure it's something to consider. If it's a light signal that's going to dose the traffic in any way, if it's going to be some of the hours that it might be, acceptable bans, etc. If it's Saturdays or so. I'm sure we'll welcome some advice that you could possibly give. They haven't spoken yet, just criticism and blocking. And the other thing. That was a question for you. If you think it's okay, we're in the moment it's not. When there's no way to tell these people where it is the day those residents finally get rid of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u175	Please, Minister, follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u176	I'll answer that in writing, so I don't drag rabbits out of my hat right now. One thing the Ministry agreed to was the ban on truck conventions, i.e. There was some kind of helpful approach from our side. And we'll give you an answer about what to do about it. And even with deadlines that should be the deadline for turning right into five hundred and eleven.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u177	I thank and please Mrs Pekarová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Němcová on the employment of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u178	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I am interrogating you on how to calculate compliance with the conditions for payment of wages without payment of at least 80 per cent of employees who are disabled. Which is a condition of the employment authorities, albeit beyond the law. According to the Labour Office, the 80% share of employees in question is assessed and compared in summary for the whole reference period, not during pay-out periods, which are usually calendar months. According to the Labour Offices, the total number of employees is covered by all OZPs, which were within 12 months before the date of submission of the application for a State contribution to these persons, regardless of whether they were employed at the company for an hour, day or almost a year. Only the employment relationship is crucial. So here's the employment relationship. This creates a very inconspicuous situation. Some branches of labour offices go further in the interpretation of the Employment Act. For example, in the course of the reference period, for example in just one month, even if a wage or part of it in cash is received at its own request, the rest of the year is counted as if it were receiving cash wages, even for the rest of the reference period. It would be logical if an employer employing e.g. 100 OZP paid wages in cash to two employees a month, regardless of whether they are still the same employees or others. Then a monthly salary is paid to two percent of employees, and it is a conveniently met condition. However, another branch of the Labour Office explains the same example differently. If two different employees were to receive cash wages each month, out of the total number of 100 employees it is 24 people, they would, of course, account for 24 percent of the OZP during the reference period and would no longer comply with the condition of the law. This means that these people or these employers would be in a situation where they do not reach a state contribution and have to put an end to business. [[Attention on time.]] Madam Secretary, I just want to ask if the MPSV will prepare a clear methodology to exclude this double interpretation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u179	Thank you, too. The Minister will answer you in writing within 30 days, and I am asking Mrs Richterová, who will intersect the absent Minister Dostálová on the social housing law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u180	Thank you for the floor. I'm very glad to know why the secretary isn't here. He's in a meeting. At the same time, when I look around, it's pretty empty. So the respected remaining colleagues and the remaining isolated colleagues, my interpellation to Minister Dostálová again concerns the law on social housing and, in particular, its preparation. It is a law that the Ministry of Regional Development has in mind, is supposed to be the whole thing, and it is to plan on how to reconcile with other interested ministries. And he's actually supposed to follow some rather ambitious timetable. [[17.30 hours]] That's why I'm interested in how this schedule is implemented. I would really like to know what the timetable for the paragrafo law looks like, or whether the Ministry wants to admit in time that it is currently preparing something that could also be another grant title, and that an ambitious social housing law is really waiting for someone to prepare it at the Ministry of Regional Development. I have already pointed out in my interview with the Prime Minister in his resignation that inter-resort cooperation is a major problem in the preparation of this law. Obviously, this is such a really difficult task for our ministries to talk to each other, and they are now in one color. So once again, I ask what is the timetable for the actions to lead to the creation of a social housing law, and if it is not planned to do another grant title. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u181	I thank you, too, and the Minister will answer you within 30 days. I will ask Mrs Maříková, who will interpel Mr Milek on the minimum margin for food, and Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u182	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, there has been information in the media that you are considering reducing the number of discount events by introducing a mandatory minimum margin on food, so that chains cannot sell them in events at lower prices than those of production farmers. More than 50 percent of consumer fast-track goods are sold in the Czech Republic at some discount. This is due to the high concentration of sales areas and the competition of traders. However, food is relatively expensive in the Czech Republic. While wages are significantly lower than Western countries, food prices are not so much, so for a large proportion of customers the price is still a decisive criterion. Do you realise that reducing the discounts will mean increasing sales prices and increasing the already disproportionately high prices to pay will lead to even greater poverty? Are you aware that market regulation will lead to a reduction in the competitive instruments of sellers? Prices vary between large and small producers. Who would set the right purchase prices for manufacturers? And when do you have any idea that an amendment that would introduce any changes in retail regulation could happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u183	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will answer you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u184	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members, on 12 April 2018, I initiated a joint working breakfast with representatives of trade chain leaders operating in the Czech Republic, as well as representatives of the Trade and Tourism Union, with the participation of the President of the Food Chamber and with the participation of the President of the Agrarian Chamber. Key topics of discussion were practical issues of the functioning of the food chain, especially with regard to the possible introduction of a minimum share of Czech food in the market network, also with regard to sub-cost prices and purchase prices, discount events or the impact of the revised common agricultural policy on the competitiveness of farmers and food professionals. I welcomed the opportunity to discuss these issues on the platform of all the key actors - farmers, food professionals, traders and the Ministry of Agriculture. At the same time, I stressed that the priority of the Ministry of Agriculture is to support Czech agriculture and food industry, including achieving self-sufficiency in basic commodities. However, in order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to achieve a fair distribution of added value across the food chain, as well as to promote a level playing field within the new common agricultural policy and the organisation of the EU market. This issue is dealt with intensively both at Member State level and by the European Commission. In particular, I mentioned the new legislation in France, which gives the government the power to introduce significant regulations in the field of minimum margins or in the field of discount events. I also recalled current activities at EU level, including current proposals for double food quality and unfair business practices. So we would like to deprive the amendment to the law on significant market power, and in this amendment we would like to concern ourselves with this. Personally, I do not think that there will be an increase in food prices, because trade chains use relatively high margins, significantly higher. You yourself say that today our prices are higher than in other countries around us. On the other hand, it has to be said that the purchase prices at which they buy from primary producers are significantly lower and take advantage of their position. The last event of some strings, here you see one of them, right now taking place in Kaufland, for one crown a liter of milk. [[shows a liter box of milk]] I don't think they'd dare do that in any old European country. They're just gonna tear down our market, bring in a boned pig leg for 60 crowns, bring in surplus. Unfortunately, today we are witnesses to a national budget fight. So if we want to preserve Czech agriculture, the Kaufland chain cannot afford to sell a liter of milk for one crown. I'm asking where the cost price is. I'm asking, isn't it tax cuts and VAT cuts? I'm sure you do. So, at the moment, lawyers at the Department of Agriculture are processing their opinion on this and we're going to initiate the UOHS and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u185	Thank you, too. Please, if the Member has an additional question. He has, so please give your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u186	Thank you for your answer, Minister. If you want to suggest that trade chains must have a certain volume of Czech goods, how do you want to define what Czech goods are?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u187	I beg the Minister if he's interested in a follow-up answer. He does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u188	There are two categories of goods. One is made in the Czech Republic and then it is Czech origin. There is a difference in the percentage of the content of the processed main raw material, so there are relatively precise methodologies. That is also why today producers, for example, cannot declare that it is a Czech product, because most of us - as you all know, only produce less than 50 per cent of pork in the Czech Republic, and because import meat goes into these processed meat products, so they cannot declare that they are Czech products. We're about to change and soften, but on the other hand, I think it's a gamble to produce less than 50 percent of pork in a country where it's national food.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u189	I thank you, and as far as I have information, Mrs Golasowská is withdrawing her intervention, so please Mrs Kovářová, who will intersect Minister Metnar on the limitation of the rights of assembly. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u190	Dear Minister, on Tuesday, disgruntled mayors demonstrated before the Office of the Government. They were concerned with the adoption of an amendment to the conflict of interest law, as amended by the Senate proposal. What struck me in this context is an extremely limited space for demonstration before the government office. It needs to be pressed at a few meters. They are threatened by tram and car traffic. With more protesters, they are either in danger of being injured or stopped from operating. In my opinion, the demonstrators should have far more room before the Office of the Government so that they can freely say what they think of government steps before the Prime Minister's seat. Why do they only have a few meters? I understand that this is also a matter of security, but I still feel that the current setting is rather unbalanced, that the right to collect guaranteed by the Charter gets a little bit to shreds. Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u191	Yes. Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will answer you within 30 days. And now, please, Mr Dolínek, who will interpel Minister Táok on the issue of the Výtoň bridge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u192	Dear Minister, SŽDC, Railway Infrastructure Administration, has announced that the old bridge cannot be saved at Výtoni, a railway bridge which is an important link between Smíchovský and Main Railway Station. According to SŽDC, his only route is demolition. Okay, that's understandable. However, SŽDC has been talking for years about its modernisation, which should have started long ago, for example in 2015 we were informed that the modernisation will start in 2019. I would like to ask, Minister, what has changed that this plan has shifted and replaced with a new one? How high were investments in maintenance and bridge repairs in the last 20 years? And what activities have been carried out for the funds spent during this period? How high were investments in maintenance and repair of the bridge when you became Minister of Transport - since then? What activities have been carried out for the funds spent during this period? And most importantly, why SŽDC blocked the repair or exchange of footbridges for two years, which is an investment in Prague, which could not have started until this year, although it could have been realized for two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u193	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u194	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, when it comes to the railway bridge at Výtona, there is a long-term intention to increase the capacity of this line and the bridge, which is present there and has two tracks, must be done in such a way that it is three-wheeled. That's why the technical situation was, of course, assessed. Now, there is a feasibility study going on, and I must say that this bridge is a monument protected bridge, and we will be debating with the landlords how, if we can remove the monument protection from this bridge and make it further. I have information here that if the bridge should only be repaired, and because it's a steel structure, the maximum service life could only be extended by 30 years in a repasi, and most importantly, it wouldn't solve the tri-railing. With regard to the specific cost questions and the steps that have been taken on that bridge, I can't answer that now, SŽDC will answer that in writing and what steps have been taken. As far as blocking the construction of the footbridge, we've talked about this before, and I'm gonna find out about it, too. However, I am assured that it will certainly pay off, because if the bridge is reconstructed, it will take place sometime from 2022 to 2024, so I think that the residents of Smíchov and Podoli can use this bridge, and that new bridge will certainly count on there being a bridge. Of course, during the reconstruction, it is assumed that even the two tracks that are there today should be preserved. We can't do without that railroad bridge. So before this one is reconstructed, there's gonna have to be a spare building, so we'll keep this up to date. So it's not an emergency, it's not a matter that needs to be dealt with immediately. And I'll make a written statement on the costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u195	Thank you. Please, if the Member is interested in an additional question. He doesn't. In that case, please Mr Kaňkovský, who will interpel Minister Milek on the export of unprocessed wood. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u196	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, the Czech Republic is, for the long term, the largest exporter of raw wood, i.e. raw materials with no added value, in Europe. We move approximately 7 miles a year. Cabs of raw wood, which is without 1 mile. annual mining of Forests of the Czech Republic. It should be a clear task for the Czech state to do everything for domestic use of Czech wood. The incomprehensible paradox of the entire situation of timber exports is that there is an interest by domestic processors to use Czech wood and to give it higher added value, provided that wood has international FSC certification. The problem is that a notice from the timber industry has long been ignored, that if there is not enough domestic wood with this certificate, they will get into existential problems. It should be noted that Czech wood processing companies supply their products to foreign furniture chains, which increasingly as their condition give that the wood from which the furniture is made must have this certificate. Minister, it was said in the media that you personally refuse to introduce an FSC system in at least part of the territory of the state forests, which I personally consider to be a mistake. I therefore want to ask you: Are you willing to ensure that Czech woodworkers have secured access to the raw material with the FSC certificate and become competitive with Poland and other European countries with the growing furniture industry? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u197	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Five minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u198	Yes. Dear Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to answer this question. I don't know who quoted me for refusing to introduce an FSC certificate. We just have to tell each other the facts. In Europe, most countries use this PEFC certificate that we use. So that's not the problem. About ten days ago, I was visited by representatives of the wood processing industry. We discussed this problem for about an hour and agreed on the following things: representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, representatives of the wood processing industry, but we have to bring in the FSC certification company, which unfortunately has no clear interpretation and clear requirements in individual countries. And with us, they demand things that are not required in other countries. For example, when I take certified wood in different countries, for criterion 6.3, it is necessary to preserve, strengthen or restore ecological functions and values, including forest renewal, succection, genetic, species and ecosystem diversity, natural cycles that affect ecosystem productivity. The number of indicators monitored in different countries varies from 4 to 26. So I think that if this certificate is to be unified within Europe, we have no problem with that. We are willing to implement this certificate on parts of the property. I note that the forests of the Czech Republic manage less than half, or just half, and other owners are not in the process of introducing it. There's only one reason. The cost of the wood thus produced will increase by 55 crowns, or approximately a flat-rate payment of 350 crowns per hectare. So at a million hectares, it's about 350 to 400 miles. per year. Moreover, these costs would be raised at the Forests of the Czech Republic if we certified all forests of the Czech Republic. We say yes, we cooperate and we are willing to part of some administration e.g. to certify, but it is necessary for the certification organisation representing this certification service in the Czech Republic to act and we have negotiated, say, a little easier conditions for the certification as some countries have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u199	Thank you. Please, the Member is interested in an additional question, so please ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u200	First of all, I want to apologize to the Minister. It wasn't news from the media, but from some representatives of the professional community, so I apologize. As far as the conditions are concerned. Yes, I know that the conditions of the FSC certification companies are somewhat specific, but I welcome that you are acting and that you are willing to participate in this. And it just needs to be realized that our woodworkers actually supply large chains, such as Ikea and some others, and there is great competition from other countries, especially Poland, but also some others. This means we are fighting to make better use of the wood financially, but also to maintain employment. That's a good one today, but in a year or two, it doesn't have to be good, and it would be wrong for wood-processing companies to have to fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u201	The Minister isn't interested in a follow-up answer, so let's move on. I beg Mr Luzar, who will interpel Minister Šmíd on the verification of the participation of General Koněv in 1968 and the memorial in Prague, will be prepared by Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u202	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, allow me to address you on a matter of mediation. I know that the Koněv monument in Prague is not owned by the state, it is the property of the Prague 6 district. Still, it's a historical monument. It has some historical significance, and I defend myself against all attempts to deny my history. The dispute has grown into a dispute between vandal groups constantly painting this statue. I would not like it to end with this becoming a modern creation of artworks of this type in the Republic in general, when red stars begin to cut off, when historical milestones start to redish, just because Russia's name, azbuka, or somewhere appears in those lovers. other symbols associated with our liberators. [[17.50 hours]] I therefore appeal to you to become a mediator in the dispute that the Russian Embassy, say, is trying to mitigate slightly, and to pass on to Prague 6 information on General Koněv's participation in 1968. Unfortunately, for reasons unknown to me, the mayor of the town district says it doesn't matter, because it could have been manipulated, changed, and rewritten by the archives. I would very much like the Ministry of Culture to enter into negotiations with the Russian Embassy, to request these documents offered by this Embassy, and to be the arbiter who might say yes, they are historical facts, what has been delivered to us corresponds to reality and calms the situation around this statue, whose painting or depreciation of these sculptures does not contribute to Czech culture, does not contribute to information... [[Attention on time.]] Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u203	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u204	Mr President, Mr House, honourable Member through Mr President, I also hate any defensiveness of anything. I think that spilling any statue of anything is simply not dignified and is not one of the cultural manifestations. I have to say, I live in that neighborhood, and I walk around that memorial every day. Luckily, I wasn't present at the time when it was covered, and now I'm walking around a cleaned memorial. I just don't like it. I would like to say what you mentioned. The monument of Marshal Ivan Stěpanovič Koněv, which is located there on the square of Interbrigada, was never declared a cultural monument. But it is located in a landmark zone in Dejvice, respectively in Bubeneč, it is the upper Holešovice. From the point of view of state conservation care it is therefore necessary to comply with the Act on State conservation care. It should be said, however, that the memorial, as you mentioned, is indeed in the property, in the administration of the Prague 6 district, which is responsible for the handling of the memorial. From the point of view of historical care, it is therefore the competent authority of the City of Prague. However, I like to be a mediator, I will try to stop by the mayor's office in Prague 6 and talk to him. But I would like to say one thing, in terms of the material, historical, it is much more important and much more... the body that is closer to it, the Military Historical Institute or the Academy of Sciences. So to examine the factual correctness that some may discuss, the fact that Marshal Koněv liberated Prague or drove back to Prague at the time at the head of the then Red Army, there can be no dispute about it. That we can also be grateful to them for the liberation of Prague, I also think cultural people will not question that. His participation in Hungary and in 1968 can be somewhat culturally recalled, but the way in which it is done, it must really be arranged with Prague 6. I promise to become that mediator, and to see Mr. Mayor Kolář, I will appear in that sense. And I will go there not as a minister, but as a citizen of Prague 6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u205	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u206	Not that much of a question. I'll be glad to... The mediator must already have two roles, which means Prague 6 plus the Russian embassy, which has some documents that he can document. And I would be very happy if you would keep us informed of the outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u207	Thank you, too. I don't think the Minister is interested in a reaction, so let's move on. And I beg Mr Dolínek, who will interpel Minister Vojtěch on the ban on vehicle entry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u208	Dear Minister, as I have already intervened with the Minister of Transport, this is a ban on the entry of vehicles into the territory of the capital city of Prague into the inner perimeter of the non-existent Prague Circuit, or the substitution of the Prague Circuit. As I said before, outdoor air pollution and diesel engine exhaust gases are among the proven human carcinogens as well as dust particles PM10 and PM2,5 benzene, benzopyrene. I also said the whole list of what all of this could lead to an overload of these particles from some area. I'll say again that 10,000 people live in Spořilov. Then we have the whole Garden City, we have other areas that are affected by this in Prague. I'm not asking you about the traffic area, Mr. Secretary. I wouldn't dare. I'm asking you for another reason. Is it acceptable, on the basis of applicable legislation and valid documents of the Ministry of Health, that tens of thousands of Pražan are permanently exposed to an excessive burden on transit services, including trucks, including negative impacts on their health? Do you consider it right that the capital of Prague is trying to protect citizens within its capabilities and competences, which are not many in this area? Is it acceptable, on the basis of valid legislation and valid documents of the Ministry of Health, that the Ministry of Transport is trying to defend the capital of Prague in this area? And are you willing from your position to help Prague protect the health of the mentioned inhabitants, and not only in Spořilov, but throughout the entire section of the substitution of the Prague Circuit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u209	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u210	Mr President, honourable Members remaining, honourable Members, only one Member. I'm also responding to the interpellation here. We as the Ministry of Health, of course, follow the health risks in relation to the environment within the monitoring system, the assessment of trends of pollution, exposure to health and health risks, and do so every year by the State Health Institute. So in this respect, we are a certain monitoring body, an institution. Although it must be said that the Ministry of the Environment is the central body of the state administration as regards air protection. We are responsible for the preparation of noise legislation, this is our competence, where, of course, we ensure that the owner of the infrastructure by some technical measures, organisational measures, and thus ensure that noise does not simply exceed the sanitary limits laid down by the implementing legislation, whether it is a protected outdoor space or protected interior spaces of buildings and outdoor spaces of buildings. So, from our point of view, it's crucial to us, or our competence is the noise legislation and compliance with these limits, which is controlled by county sanitation stations. I guess I can't comment on bilateral negotiations between the capital city of Prague and the Ministry of Transport, although, of course, as Minister of Health, I will welcome any steps that will lead to an improvement in the health situation of the population not only in Prague, but also in the whole Czech Republic. So I'm sure if the Ministry of Health can be of any help in this, I'm prepared to take part in any negotiations, but I'm pointing out that according to current legislation, it's like I said, that means the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the atmosphere. We're just monitoring the status. Where we can help is the noise limit, but our authority, I say, is rather limited in that direction. So if you want any support from the Ministry of Health, I'm sure you'd like it, but as I say, the competence isn't quite that wide. It would probably be best to agree with the Department of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u211	I see that the Member is interested in an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u212	I would ask if you have any advice on how to solve the noise paradox if the state doesn't allow us to keep 11,000 trucks out of the way of Spořilov every Spořilov. At the same time as the owner of the communication we are Prague, we are to ensure that the noise is not there. If you're able to advise us. Of course, we do, we do our duty to you, we discuss with the city section, with the residents of the Spořilovský roofing so that we divert all these phenomena, and it will take two, three, four years if it succeeds. So how are we supposed to do something over the years to protect your competence, which is noise, the locals? What can we do if the State does not allow us to exclude this transport from the area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u213	Thank you, too. I beg the Minister if he wants to respond. He does. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u214	I can, of course, respond, but I confess that I have no clear advice whatsoever. I say frankly, it is up to an agreement, bilateral negotiations between Prague and the Ministry of Transport. So, until then, of course, it's necessary to wait it out. Yes, we may be able to ban the passage at all, but the question is, is it a solution? How the situation will work out - it's probably not that simple. So I don't have any clear advice in this regard. I'm sorry. If there's anything specific, of course I'm ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-002-116.u215	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mrs Maříková, who will interpel the Minister... Excuse me, I have information from Mrs Maříková that she's downloading her 39 interpelation, so now she's going to interpel... Is it over? It's 6:00, so it's the end of time. I thank you all for your participation, for your questions and answers, and today's meeting day is over. See you tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when the meeting will normally continue with the third reading block. Thank you and have a good evening.
