ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u1	31. Proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik, Miloslava Vostrá, Stanislav Grospič and Květa Matušovská on the issue of the Act on the abolition of Act No. 99/2000 Sb., on the prohibition of supply for the Búšehr nuclear power plant /house printing 112/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please take their seats at the rapporteur's table as Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip and rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Roman Kubíček. We interrupted the discussion of this point on Tuesday 17. 4. at the request of TOP 09 for a break, this item was therefore finally interrupted. I would remind you that the veto was brought against the hearing pursuant to § 90 para. 2 and this veto was raised by ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN. The general debate has been closed. [[A voice from the diaper.]] I've got a letter in the president's office saying it's been terminated. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u2	Thank you. Mr President said so, but I spoke to the microphone during the meeting because I requested information about what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said about this proposal, who could not be here for objective reasons because he was indisposed, so he could not be here, or at least to respond to it. Alternatively, to respond to this, the rapporteur. Then there was a bit of confusion at the end of the meeting. Mr President, it was Petr Fiala, he said that the debate is closed, but I have volunteered that it is not, that I would still really like to have that space for that answer. So we agreed that we did not end the general debate, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u3	I've got a note that we're done here, so please... But of course one of the ministers can speak and reopen it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u4	Indeed, at the end of this discussion there was confusion, even multiple, and there may be a different interpretation as to whether the debate was closed or not. I would therefore ask any member of the government to speak up and reopen the general debate, and we will get off this point, from that problematic place, very simply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u5	Please, Mr. Ambassador. Yes, I suggested it was an elegant solution. So, Mr. Ambassador, please. Prime Minister Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, please understand, I caused this mess. Perhaps many of you will remember that at 18.45 I asked for a 20-minute break before the final vote after the general debate. I have probably formulated it so clumsyly that the President has announced the recess immediately, and I did not want it until after the general debate. That is why it did not reach those who still wanted to speak in the general debate. It is a simple misunderstanding, and I am asking for generosity so that those who have applied for the general debate can speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u7	Thank you. It is, of course, up to the Minister to open the debate for us. I think it's a general consensus, but if anyone could just say one word? [[Speech of dissent on the right.]] But it's up to you. Of course, I'm just here to host a meeting. I don't want to encourage anyone, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u8	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u9	Thank you, Minister. So we have a re-opened general debate, and I am asking who is in it. Yes, with priority rights, but no one else is logged in, President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u10	We've got a few prepped posts, but we can work this out elegantly. I therefore propose that we interrupt this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u11	Sorry. Once again, because Vice-President Pikal here was just talking to me. So, the meeting's adjourned?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u12	I heard a comment that it's good for the beggar. It's not exactly that. We can still discuss this for eight hours today and tomorrow, if you're interested, there's no problem. I'm going to make room for the next item in the parliamentary meeting, so that's, I'd say, a helpful proposal. It's not revenge. I could make that proposal even after the end of the debate with priority rights and before the final vote. The proposal, whether it sounds or not, did not depend on whether or not the debate will be open. I want to give room for more points, but we don't have to. The House will decide, of course. If not, the debate will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u13	I have here a request from Vojtěch Filip for the plaintiff, so we will give him room, and then Mrs Černochová. [[At the fairground, the men are preparing. Philip. Protests from Members of the ODS.]] Like this. Well, I'd vote on the procedural proposal immediately, but so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u14	I think I have the same priority right as the chairman of the ODS club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u15	You do, but we should vote immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u16	Of course, I'm not going to complicate the management of his work, I just want to say that if you want obstruction, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u17	We will therefore proceed to the vote on the procedural proposal immediately. So I have a motion here to interrupt the item until the next meeting. I think there is no need for me to summon Members. We're in total number here - I don't see the application for check-out, so we'll proceed... Yes, an application for a check-out, so we're gonna unsubscribe all the MPs. I ask you to sign up with your voting cards, and I will repeat once again the proposal we will be voting on, and that is interrupting the item until the next meeting. Initiating vote. Whoever is to interrupt, raise your hand and press the button. If you are against interruption, raise your hand and press the button. Voting number 104, 139 Members registered, for 33, versus 12, abstained 94. The motion for an interruption has been rejected. We will therefore continue to discuss this, and therefore President Filip and subsequently Mrs Černochová report with priority law. And I'm handing over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u18	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, it is, of course, possible for us to proceed in an obstructive way towards this law, while noting that the bill is relatively simple and that the 90th was also appropriate - I remind you that the previous government has also proposed to discuss it in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Act. 2 and we held the discussion several times. So I, for the sake of being friendly to those who want to discuss, respect the fact that there has been a proposal for an extension of time, and I will be willing to vote for it. And if we want to have this debate, we can have it. We can conduct it in a way that is adequate to Parliament's debate, that is, in committees, because there will be proper discussions in committees, second reading, third reading, and we will certainly have that discussion in various forums. If anyone decides to obstruct, it is part of Parliament's work. In this case, everyone can evaluate how the Czech public will look at it, because this is, of course, a matter of interest to citizens of the Czech Republic, both entrepreneurs and employees, because it is the economic interests of the Czech Republic. I understand that someone is not interested in economic interests, and as a helpful step again, I say that I will be willing to vote on an extension of the deadline, although I do not see it as necessary, by 20 days. So that's a helpful step from the plaintiffs to not having parliamentary obstruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u19	I thank the Vice-President. Good evening, everyone. And now, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to repeat what I said here yesterday and what I think, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Philip, through Vice-President Pikal, that this is not about obstruction. I didn't propose a break last night. I assumed that those colleagues I asked here to speak up and to tell us the Prime Minister's opinion and to tell us the opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Stropnický that he would give us that opinion. As we all know here, this proposal has been given a neutral opinion from the government. We don't have a chance to learn from any of the websites about who voted. Yesterday, we were here for over three hours discussing Syria. Words have been made here several times, sentences have been made about Iran. This morning we had a joint committee on defence and a foreign committee, when we again discussed Syria for almost two hours. Iran has also been said there as one of the countries that stands on the other side, on the side that is somehow defined at the moment, opposed what is in the EU's interest or, in general, what is in the interests of our transatlantic civilization. We were here yesterday discussing a matter relating to Syria and how the US administration had taken this into account in the past. President Obama, the former President of the United States of America, who signed the agreement of five or six countries in 2015, was mentioned several times here, and today we were also reminding some of Mr Obama's activities on these international political issues in the morning on the joint committee, where the Prime Minister has a clear view of Mr Obama's work, and the Prime Minister, not only colleagues from the People's Party, as was clearly said here yesterday by Mr and President of the KDU-ČSL Bartošek MP. So it's really not that I want to be here to say that I don't want to get these points into the discussion, but I'm really interested in the way the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are doing it, because it's not classified information, you can read it on foreign servers, that President Donald Trump is thinking, he's considering, and he's calling for this agreement to be terminated in the foreseeable future. [[17.40 hours]] So what do we want as the Czech Republic? Now, do we want to put something in the legislative process that goes against what we're referring to here? Wouldn't it really be worth waiting for that decision by the United States, which should be in the foreseeable future, even considering exactly what I mentioned earlier, given Syria? I suppose that decision from the US administration should be made as soon as possible. So it's not that we're suggesting interruptions by September or interruptions by the end of the year. Mr President of the ODS, Mr Stanjura, has proposed an interruption until the next meeting. If the position isn't changed at the next meeting, we'll talk about it again. But I suppose, at the next meeting, if the interruption occurred, Mr. Stropnickýý will be well and in full strength, to tell us as Minister of Foreign Affairs what it would be for the Czech Republic if this had been approved, what it would mean. Let the Prime Minister of this government tell us what it will mean for the Czech Republic, as well as from his position as Prime Minister. From the position of the country, which, at the level of the Prime Minister, the Government, the President of the Czech Republic, is one of the countries that is in a very fundamental way, and I am glad to be behind Israel. And I think that in terms of international relations, we can really cause ourselves big problems no matter what the US administration does or doesn't do. So let me ask you once more to interrupt. And if the Prime Minister is here tomorrow -- because we are discussing normal points in the morning -- I suggest that the interruption by the time the Prime Minister is present, so that he can answer the question of what it will do to him as representatives of our government, or if the Minister of Foreign Affairs is here, or if someone else can interpret the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I didn't even insist on Mr. Babiš or Mr. Stropnický answering yesterday. I asked the rapporteur, my colleague, to find out what that position was. This really isn't about obstruction. This is about avoiding some diplomatic faux passport, and just to be clear what happens when we move on with this standard, what happens next. So I suggest, in a procedural manner, and I beg you, to support the interruption of this meeting in the presence of the Prime Minister, or the presence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or the disclosure of information for the Prime Minister or for the Minister. What do these two key actors of our foreign policy think about this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u21	Just to be clear - it is a proposal to interrupt this point until the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs is present, or to convey their position. Am I getting this right? [[Mrs Černochová: Yes.]] So we all know what's going to be voted on. I'm looking in the O.R. to see if there are any major objections. It doesn't look like it. So in that case, I would... [[Members shall request that they be withdrawn.]] Check out? So I'm gonna cancel the vote and I'm gonna take you all out. Please sign in. So, when this is settled, we will vote to suspend the item to the presence of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or to express the Government's position. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption. Who's against it? In the 106 vote, 115 Members were present, in favour of the 41st vote, against 12. The motion was denied. So we'll continue the negotiations. Thank you. I have a note here. The president of ODS Stanjura apologizes to us until the end of the day, I would say, for procedural reasons. I'm the first to have Mr Kalousek's priority right here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u22	Thank you for your attention. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me first of all, although two very seriously intended, but nevertheless a lightly lightening remark. The first point is that the government has a neutral position. Based on the discussions that we have had here on similar topics, I imagine that the government adopted a favourable position on Wednesday, overwhelmingly denied its position on Thursday and took a negative position, thinking about it on Friday and taking a neutral position. This is because this is, and now I'm not kidding, this is a foreign policy strategy of the Czech government. And it is sad especially for the future of the Czech Republic and our children, because no one will take us seriously if the Czech government is progressing as it goes, and unfortunately it is progressing. A second slightly lightening remark. It concerns the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I've read that he's having problems with his spine, which is not new information, we all know that for a long time. I just don't know why it presents itself as a medical problem. But I strongly hope that the Secretary of State or someone who can represent him fully will come between us. Now, after these two notes, allow me one piece of information I believe, ladies and gentlemen, which is why I have come out that many of you don't have it because it's really fresh. Let me inform you that today was the day of Tehran's army. Sorry, Iran. Today Iran celebrated Army Day, which is a very important holiday for them. And there was a huge military parade in Tehran. And at the military parade today - I picked it up in The Economist, but you can find it on some Czech servers, it is really a few minutes fresh information. Today in Tehran, President Hasan Rúhání said on the occasion of the military parade - and now I would like to quote precisely: "We are telling the world that we will produce or acquire any weapons we need and we will not wait for your permission or agreement. " [[reads from the background]] That's what the Iranian president said to the world today, to us. To us who are discussing the bill. He told us. Those are very strong words. And in the interests of the future of the security of the Czech Republic, I recommend taking these strong words very seriously. [[17.50 hours]] I know that the proponents of this proposal refer to the signing of the 2015 agreement by President Obama with the six powers that agreed to dampen Iran's nuclear program. But we also know that it hasn't happened much since. And we know that our allies France and the United Kingdom want to ask for an embargo against Iran, its missile and nuclear program. And we know that the President of the United States has proposals on his desk to revise the 2015 agreement, which unfortunately is not being implemented. It's just that since 2015, the situation has changed. She's changed radically. And that last point is today's statement, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President Rúhání. He said to us, "Fuck you!" I don't give a shit about deals! I'll get the guns against you! That's what we heard today. And you really want to send weapons to a country that will not hesitate to include the Czech Republic among its objectives? Are you really able to do that? You're able to send it to second reading at all and you're able to think about it?! Or you want to be patriots - I'm sorry, I don't like to use that word, I prefer to leave it to the SPD. Or do you want to say, or do you want to be patriots, and you want to say, the country that's after us and who's thinking about sending rockets after us, well, we're not really sending supplies to her nuclear program. So like we have two options now. And I'm giving the proposal a third time. Either we interrupt now and wait for the information to come, because President Rúhání said so today, and if we discuss this at the next meeting, we will probably have more information and it will be quite fair and fair. Or we're gonna turn it down today. But if we let it go to second reading, considering that we're even willing to think about how we're gonna supply our supplies with a nuclear program to a country that's ready to go after our necks, then we're traitors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u23	Thank you. I want to make sure there's a motion to interrupt or not. [[Reactions in the O.R.: Yes.]] Well, I'm the one who recorded the motion to interrupt the next meeting. [[Call off the microphone.]] I know, but this proposal is different from the other one, so we're gonna vote again. Do we want to unsubscribe, or are we all here? I think we're all here. Initiating a vote to suspend the item until the next meeting. That was meritorically about another interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u24	I'm sorry, I understand that some proceduralists could legitimately protest. So, please, I propose that this item be interrupted by the next meeting, the first week of the meeting, by Wednesday at 15.05.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u25	Well, thank you for making the proposal clear. I've got an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again. And when the counter settles, which happened now, I... Still? Now. I am opening the vote on the suspension of this point on the basis of Mr Kalousek's proposal. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Thank you. So in vote number 108, 136 Members were present, for it was 39, against 11, the proposal was not accepted. I have other priority rights here at this point, and I have factual points here. So we'll continue the debate. First of all, with a factual remark, Mr. Třešňák. But Mrs Adámková was here first, so please. Two minutes, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u26	Thank you for that, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciate all those who work for a long time, I hope, according to my best knowledge and conscience, to the well-being of our country. But please, nicely, let's stick to the basic human bond. Don't value the health of your fellow citizens, it doesn't belong to you, and I think we can all get into a situation where we'll be at the doctor's. None of you, through Mr President, know the real state of health that is with the Minister. So let's not judge him. Really, then, the people who claim they don't respect politicians would be right. And I'd be sorry to hear that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u27	Well, thank you. And now, with a factual remark, please, Mr Třešňák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u28	Such a lovely evening, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'll try to respond quickly to Mr. Kalousek's emotional performance. Even though I have to say right to the start that I certainly don't stand up for this KSČM proposal, and I hope that the law will apply as I believe it has been since 2000. However, I would just like to remind you that if he were allowed into second reading, which I personally agree with, for example, for the reasons that Mr Peksa mentioned here yesterday, it is precisely to discuss how this is harmonised throughout the EU, for example, and this is, for example, the report through other EU countries, for example, to Iran. And another thing I'd like to remind you of when we're talking about the stability of the region. So, while it is a short distance away, it is not a theocratic republic, but it is an authoritarian regime with the support of the Wahhabists, and we export weapons and weapons systems to this regime, for example, even though it supports the An-Nusra front, for example, in Syria. So I think that this should be discussed in the committees, although I hope that this original law will not be abolished. So, by doing this, just to respond to Mr Kalousek's demagogy, let's not let it push us that if this is released further into committees, we want to support arms exports. And let me remind you, the original law concerned the export of air conditioning and pumps from VVZ Milevsko in 2000. So I don't know how, for example, technology for a pressure-water nuclear power plant can support weapons systems or military abuse. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u29	Thank you, too. Now I have here with the de facto remark of Mr Kalousek. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u30	Thank you. First of all, I accept Mrs Adámková's complaint, and I put it unfortunately. I would like to apologize to her, to you and Minister Stropnický. Please forgive me. Two. The release to second reading is simply a message to the world that we are at all willing to think about the country that tells us that they will get the weapons anyway, where they want us to supply them, too. And this is not just a report to the Czech public, it is not just a report to the Czech Parliament, but it is a report to the entire world public. And I don't think we can give that message.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u31	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u32	Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, yesterday after the debate in the final words, I wanted to mention something about the individual speeches that have been made here. I'm gonna tell them now that you can't say that I kept it to the final word and you couldn't respond. First of all. Today, at 17 o'clock, I wanted to go to a demonstration against the war in Syria, which is convened here in Prague. I couldn't because I have to do my duty here. I'm a law maker, it's my duty to be here. People disagree that there has been a violation of international law and aggression against the UN sovereign state. Moreover, when we argue Syria here, we must realise that Iran is now Syria's ally, although it is a theocratic regime, and the Syrian Arab Republic is a classic Republican regime. If anyone is arguing with Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia has already bought weapons, and Saudi Arabia is on the side against Iran, against Syria. I am not a professor of demagogy to interpret some things here as a colleague of Kalousek, and I also do not question the position of the government of the Czech Republic or its foreign policy orientation, although I do not agree with many steps of the government of the Czech Republic. But to say that President Rúhání said he was going to get guns, so I have to say, all the states are getting guns. They are purchased by the Czech Republic, which has its acquisition program and, of course, ensures its security either within our internal circumstances or within the Alliance. And you're wondering if the state that's adjacent to the UN state that's being attacked is getting weapons and their president is gonna say he's gonna get weapons? Such demagogics, I'm sorry, I can't even listen to that. And we're arguing here that President Obama signed something, and President Trump has it on his desk to tell. But we are not the 52nd state or what state of the United States of America. I do not know Europe, and I have quite watched what Mrs Mogherini said, that she should in consideration cancel the agreement that arose in 2015 because, of course, it led to a significant reduction in international tensions in the Middle East. So if - and I remind you again - we will appreciate our shared sovereignty within the EU, someone less, someone more, someone will reject it, that is every thing, but in this case we must say that Europe is not going to do something like this. I have not heard a single sentence about this, and I am a great critic of the European Commission. And do we want to escalate the tension, or do we want to calm him down? And I repeat again. The International Atomic Energy Agency has made it clear that Czech experts have demonstrated that this power plant is a peaceful use of nuclear energy and is built in accordance with international standards and that there is no danger of any abuse of the production. And as far as the petrodolars are concerned, it could also be petrojuana. And maybe that's what somebody wants them to be. I understand that very well, because those who say it has to be traded in dollars also know that the trade when it is executed in another currency, e.g. in euros, with the oil, so of course it will have an impact. This will be excellent for the euro, of course it will have consequences for the dollar. And it will, of course, have an impact on the consumer basket and on the value of the Czech koruna. I understand that, too. But we have joined the EU in those steps that lead to a reduction in tensions in the Middle East. And don't be mad at me when I compare Iran's regime with that of Saudi Arabia, so I think there's a lot more democracy in Iran. And I'm also not saying we're not supposed to do business with Saudi Arabia. I'm not saying this because I'm convinced it's our sovereign thing, whether or not we're gonna do business with this state. It's our sovereign thing. I consider the law of 2000 simply to be obsolent, damaging Czech interests abroad, and therefore I have proposed, together with my colleagues, the abolition of this law for several times. It has never happened before, and I am presenting it for the fourth time so that this proposal does not pass through the first reading, because the debate, as some colleagues have said, is important. It is precisely because it is important for us to realise what the international situation is and how the Czech Republic should move in it. Maybe the law won't pass at third reading, that's what happens, but on the other hand, should we say we shouldn't try not to have this debate? That committees aren't supposed to ask the questions that Mrs. Černochová used to call here? On the contrary. The committees are supposed to ask these questions. When we were discussing the Defence Committee, when we discussed in the last parliamentary term the proposal that we prepared for the last year, the President of the Nuclear Safety Office, Dana Drábová, was there, and she said that it was okay that the standard was complied with, that there was no danger of endangering both the international agreement and anything else. And I'm reminiscent of what I said here in the last parliamentary term. We are elected by citizens of the Czech Republic. And they will judge us by how we treat our own citizens, not the citizens of other states. Nor will they judge us by the way we treat the citizens of the United States of America, nor by the way we treat our friends in Israel. I've got a lot of friends out there. And I stepped out of a group of friends the moment there was a dispute over the stool mountain. I knew very well why I was doing this, and my relatives, who had to move from Slovakia to Philadelphia in 1939, also know very well. I note that I do not accept demagogical statements that if we put it into second reading, that we will do something about it. The only thing we are going to do is not be afraid to answer some of the questions that, of course, this complex international political and military situation is putting on us. And either we trust our allies blindly, and maybe we'll end up like 1938 or 1939, or we'll verify the situation as it is, and we'll look for evidence and see what the truth is. If we succumb to demagogic pressure, or if we decide as a sovereign parliament. Don't be mad at me, I'm convinced this debate has meaning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u33	Thank you. Now I have here with the de facto remark of Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u34	Thank you. It's hard to argue with a communist because it's a 97-year-old know-how. But President Filip said that President Rúhání said that he would acquire weapons - so what? That's what every state wants. Of course, of course, that's what we do. But President Rúhání said that we would acquire and produce whatever weapons we needed, and we would not wait for your permission or agreement. That's what President Rúhání said today! That's a pretty big problem, because he signed in 2015 that he wasn't gonna get any guns and that he was gonna wait for the deal with some of the guns. And it's obvious here that Iran's willingness is not. And that's not a fight for our allies. This is indeed a struggle for our Czech national interests, because, once again, Iran's missile program is at such a level that we can be sure that their missiles will reach here in the next decade. And I really do not see the only reason why we should make this easier for Iran by our resolution. Since those statements by President Rúhání, as President Filip interprets them, and as I read them from The Economist, need to be verified, as he really said, so that we can look into this in the world agencies and live records, and I would like to request an hour-long break at the TOP 09 meeting, where we will study these statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-013-031.u35	So there's a request for an hour break. Since that time would have ended the time reserved for legal proceedings, I am interrupting the meeting by tomorrow 9 o'clock and thank you all for your attention and wish you a pleasant meeting of the club.
