ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u1	25. Government bill on experts, expert offices and expert institutes / House print 72/ - first reading I started a general debate, but it was soon interrupted. So I ask whether Mr Ondráček wants to continue with the contribution he has made. Yes. Mr Ondráček has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u2	Thank you, Mr President. 13 hours ago, I was able to say that I fully understand the rapporteur, Professor Válková, who carefully here on the microphone says that the laws presented or the materials presented are not in order. And we, who have been sitting here for the second term, and I was with the professor in the subcommittee on justice and judicial self-government in the previous term, where we discussed the same material and saw the firm resistance of the professional public against the material presented, which here is essentially identical and unchanged. And based on that, even if I'm hearing a statement here, basically a request, let it go to second reading, we'll extend the time to discuss and you'll have 20 days longer to do it, you'll do it on the Constitutional Legal Committee, or on subcommittees and where else. But we're not here to redo the poor work of the Justice Department and redo the material. [[13.10 hours]] It's just how the material came up that we're getting a new version of one of those prints before we discuss it that's here that doesn't testify to quality preparation. And as far as we know, the Minister is about to retire politically, he is no longer going to continue the minister's work, the referendum of his social democracy colleagues will be concluded in a few days, so the new minister who will be there may have a different perspective. I think that the work needs to be presented by the Ministry of Justice in a good and responsible manner, so that a smooth discussion takes place here. That is why I propose to this, and I will also propose that the other two Houses of Press, which are related, be returned to the petitioner for revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u3	So we have received a motion to return the motion submitted to the appellant for revision. I wonder if we have any more applications for the general debate. Yes, so Mr. Kaňkovský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government. It has already been said that we are discussing the law very essential for the functioning of the Czech justice system. And there were also reasons why we do not consider the draft to be too successful at the moment, and even the circumstances that lead to this draft not to be discussed at the moment. Therefore, I would like to make a procedural proposal now to interrupt this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u5	Since this is a procedural proposal, we would vote on it without delay before we vote at all, and if we vote on the proposal for a return. So I will once again call the Members of the Chamber of Deputies to the Chamber of Deputies. I have an application for check-out, so I'm signing you off. Please sign up with your voting cards. I'll start the vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting this press until the next meeting, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 115, 116 Members registered, for 44, versus 60, abstained 12. The motion was denied. So we will continue to discuss and ask if we have anyone else in the general debate. Yes, Mr. Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u6	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I could draw up my speech from last year and slowly read it again when I spoke for an hour. I consider this approach of the Justice Department to be very incorrect. I understand that the Minister already assumes that he is in his position, so he will take the whole press as it was, without taking into account any reservations that have already been made here in the previous parliamentary term. And they have already been mentioned, they have been mentioned by the rapporteur, who points to some things. They were mentioned by Mr Ondráček. Yes, we probably need a new law on experts and interpreters. At the same time, let us not pretend that he will solve all the problems. Let us not pretend that we have a major problem with experts and interpreters. That's just, like always, three cases a year that, yes, maybe they're slightly obvious, maybe somebody's going to act completely incorrect, in a number of cases these people are even being prosecuted, sometimes they're being convicted. That's perfectly all right, and nothing's going on. But let us not think that by some centralized system that is being proposed, we will resolve everything, that if the Ministry of Justice or the courts allow it all, the Regional Court leaders, where one of the problems I pointed out last time, that suddenly the Ministry is to become their review body against the decision of the Regional Court's chairman, there are just a number of problems. Total inequality in the position of individual experts, private expert offices, public institutions as expert offices. Absolute inequality in the proposed remuneration. If we were to do this, it means rewrite the whole thing on the Constitutional Legal Committee. And we all know that, the rapporteur knows, all the people who sit on the Constitutional Legal Committee, that it would mean taking the whole thing, and it's already been signaled today, yes, we're ready to retreat here and here. Honestly, when you convene an expert colloquium of experts and interpreters, the Presidents of Regional Courts, the Presidents of High Courts, everyone will say: In this form, do not let the law into the proceedings of the Chamber of Deputies! It's not settled, it's not finished, it's just some, I don't mean to say sulking, but the Minister's struggle to keep some notch on the butt of Czech legislation. I consider it really pointless to worry about it. And this also applies to the other two points, which, of course, I am also prepared to speak to. But I do not want to delay this House by detailing what all the problems in the experts are. I think we should wait for the new management of the resort to decide whether he wants to go this way or any other way. Let them prepare a bill that will actually be aligned with those expert groups in some way, and it won't be so that they'll come running and say, well, the pathologists have started complaining that there's not enough for an autopsy, that there's only one, so we'll fix it up in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm afraid that's the way it is in this law with every single thing. Someone's always complaining, and someone's gonna promise to fix it, and they're supposed to redo it by the constitutional law committee. I don't want to complain, but there's quite a lot of things you're ordering us to do. And if we're to redo something good, and we're already redoing GDPR and redoing insolvencys and a number of other things, please let the experts, interpreters and accompanying law redo the government and the Ministry of Justice, and don't worry about it here in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm joining my colleague Ondráček's proposal to bring the government back to work. Because I think it's really a standard that doesn't necessarily rush and deserves to be recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u7	Thank you. I have another enrolled in the general debate by Mrs Jana Levová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u8	Thank you. In view of the fact that the Government's draft law on experts, expert offices and expert institutes, the House's press 72, is a government bill, it should be substantially better worked out, it should not have any or less legislative technical deficiencies. For the reasons set out above, I put forward a motion for refusal at first reading. Likewise, in the following thousands of 73 and 74, I will submit a motion for rejection for the same reasons. I think we need to amend this law, but in much better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u9	I'm registering your proposal. Now I'm going to quickly read the apologies, because they've been on my desk for a long time. From 13.15 pm to the end of the meeting, Mrs Golasowská apologizes and from 13 to 14 pm Mr Benešík. So I'm asking if we have anyone else enrolled in the general debate. Yes, Mr. Kaňkovský. Please. Mr. Kaňkovský reporting, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u10	Good afternoon again. There's a sense of debate that's going on here that there's quite a lot of will to bring this law back to the government to recast. I had prepared a relatively long contribution regarding a special part or special determination of this law, which concerns judicial expert activities in the field of health care. Given that this is a rather specific matter and that the speech has been quite long, and I believe that today the law will actually be returned to recast, I will not delay you with this contribution today, because it is actually a rather specific matter, and I will, if necessary, bring it to the committee's meeting. But once again I appeal to this, unfortunately, the design is not in good shape, and let's appreciate whether we should let it in this condition for the next reading. I intercede for myself for returning the government to recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u11	I would only ask, therefore, that you have proposals for a return or rejection here and related press, so I would like to ask the Members concerned to repeat this after we have opened these prints, the following, too. So I'm noticing that. Mr Výborný here is also interested in speaking in the general debate and then we would give the floor to Mrs Helena Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u12	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I think the situation is serious. It's not an ordinary novel, it's not even an ordinary legal standard. It has already been said from the Minister's mouth that after 50 years, there is a new law. We are in a situation where the government is leaving, there will be a new government, there will be a new Minister of Justice, and I believe that there is really no delay. If we put up with that law for 50 years today, we're gonna last another year or maybe a year and a half. In this sense, I would join KDU-ČSL's proposal to Mr Ondráček and colleague Benda, because we believe that we are now discussing something out of the drawer, and I am personally having a similar debate about the amendment to the insolvency law, so I think it would really be good for a quality-prepared standard to come from a new government that will have confidence, and then let us deal with it here in the Chamber of Deputies. There's no damage to the delay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u13	I thank the honourable Member and now ask for a speech from Mrs Helena Válková. I have you registered as a factual remark, but there is no one after you. If it's factual, two minutes. If that's enough for you, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u14	Yes, it's enough for me now for two minutes, because it has something to do with the negotiation process. I think that there is nothing to prevent those who wanted to make a major speech here, and as rapporteur, I would like to call on them to do so, if they have at least a little hope that the Ministry will keep its promise and that they will take their comments into account. I have, of course, also prepared comments, which I will only make if I feel that discussions can be developed here, where the person presenting, in this case, the Minister of Justice, will justify why certain things are not yet regulated there, such as the competences, the authority, the other position of the expert institutes, and how he wants to approach them at second reading. These comments, which we have discussed several times in different working groups during the preparation for this first hearing of the law. One was also attended by workers from the Ministry of Justice, from legislation, and they said that they would be able to accommodate it, so that he had a chance to respond specifically to the comments and say: yes, we are counting on that, no, for those and for those reasons we will not work this out. Because, yes, you're right, co-workers and colleagues who have already spoken, this is not a reminder procedure in the classic sense of the word. That was supposed to happen, and it happened before. So I dare to oppose one of my previous speakers who said it was pulled out of a drawer. It's not really out of the drawer here. That's a long-awaited law. It's that... [[President: Time, Madame.]] Yes. We can't make up for her having certain flaws here. But please consider this not a procedural proposal, but please consider those who have prepared those contributions - Yes, thank you. [[Madam, time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u15	But you can apply again, because I have just one more application here, it is again a point of fact, Mr Dominik Feri, and then there is no one else, so there can still be room for unlimited time in the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think the ideal scenario is quite obvious. Everyone has comments, the petitioners have comments, the experts have comments, so let's leave it for the period after the summer, let's make a seminar about it, let's give comments to the Ministry of Justice and the successor of Mr Pelikán will process them. We won't have to deal with bad reason news and other unprofessional things anymore, and it will be possible to move on. I join the proposals that have been made here by Mr Ondráček and Mr Benda to return the government to recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u17	Thank you. I'll read one more apology to make it because we're about to conclude. Between 13:00 and 14:00, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes for personal reasons. Now I'll look around the O.R. to see if there's any interest in getting out. I do not see any interest, so let me end the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister Pelikán? He's interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u18	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just very briefly. That law has indeed been in existence for many years. It's not like we just write it down. It was created in debates with all stakeholders, and those debates were extremely difficult, because, as I say, primarily the vast majority of experts do not want to be regulated simply because they live quite nicely in this unregulated world. Those who are not so well-lived are, in particular, courts, judges and users of justice who cannot rely on this round stamp. If you ask any judge, you'll learn that when he has a case where expert opinions are made, he's already talking about it in a plural because there's not one expert opinion about how normal it is in the world, but each party brings their own opinion. One says something's black, the other says something's white. The judge then draws up some third expert opinion, but, and that's what bothers them so much, he doesn't actually feel like he's sure that his decision is right. That's what we're trying to change. As I say, we have been very listening to comments all this time and we will continue and I really expect a number of changes during the second reading, but I have to turn against the claim that the fact that there are comments means that we have done our job in some way wrong. And against the idea that if we get it back to work, we're gonna bring something that doesn't have any comments. The anthagonism of the interests of the individual groups that come into play is that they will simply always be made aware of it, because all of these groups cannot be accommodated at once. If I take it to the relative detail from the point of view of the entire law that was mentioned here, that is, the number of doctors in the autopsy, it wasn't even in the original text prepared by the Ministry of Justice. It was a reminder of the Ministry of the Interior, which came out of the needs of the police in particular and which was based on a foreign practice where one pathologist is sufficient, and we complied with it. And the other side called and said it was a mistake. And so it is with everything! I think that is why we have the Chamber of Deputies to clarify these issues in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, and political will has simply leaned toward some interests. Therefore, once again, I beg the release for second reading, with the fact that I support Professor Válková's proposal to extend the deadline for second reading by 20 days as a sign of this constructivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u19	Well, thank you for the final word. I'm asking Professor Válková? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think it would be cowardly if, in this difficult situation, the rapporteur would like to give up, which I would almost do, my word, and I will openly express my opinion. Vote for everyone according to your consciousness and conscience. I can guarantee you the truthfulness of the Minister of Justice's words if he says this law has been worked on for a long time. But it is also true that, even though work has been done lately, some comments are not included. I mind most personally that, although the law does not, of course, provide for any hierarchy of institutions such as expert, expert and expert institutions, it is the privileged status of expert institutions. But suppose I believe that the Ministry of Justice will keep its promise and will not prevent a relatively substantial substantive change from being made in this regard, where we will reconsider the status of expert institutions. So on this one example, you can see that it's kind of a hamlet question. I myself will vote to be released for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u21	Well, thank you. We have therefore exhausted the final words and will proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. So we have a motion to return the motion to the plaintiff to complete, and we have a motion to dismiss. I would vote in that order in which we have received these proposals. We will be the first to vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I have an application for check-out. I'm signing you off. Log in again with your voting cards. So I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. We shall vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I'm opening the vote. Those in favor, raise your hand, press the button. If you're against, raise your hand, press the button. Voting number 116, 133 Members registered, for 46, versus 38, abstained 49. So the motion to return was denied. We will therefore vote on another proposal tabled by Mrs Jana Levová, which is to reject the proposal. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 117, 133 Members registered, for 47, versus 58, abstained 28. The motion to dismiss was rejected. So... [[This is Mrs. Cernoch.]] Okay. Yes, please. Madam, please step out with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, given that this vote is quite interesting in the fact that a number of colleagues are staying here - I feel that a number of ANO colleagues in particular are somewhat confused that the former Minister is saying something, the current Minister is saying something without trust. I understand it's difficult for you to treat each other the same way Minister Stropnický and Mrs Šlechtová treat each other. Oh, thank God you're not showing us this. But still, I think you should definitely talk it out at the club of the YES movement. Just as we would like to discuss this with the Civic Democrats Club, as we will proceed. For this reason, I propose a five-minute break for the Civic Democrat Club. Twenty-six minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-013-025.u23	Yeah, well, I've just been a little overzealous. So I understand. I'm declaring a 24-minute break, which means 14 hours. This concludes today's meeting day and I'll see you Tuesday at 14 o'clock. Have a nice weekend.
