ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u1	40. Government bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 132/ - first reading On 20 April 2018, at the 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it in the general debate, we renegotiated at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will therefore continue to discuss this now. Mr. Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar, who is a representative of the plaintiff, has already taken his place. I also ask that Mrs Kateřina Valachová take up the seats at the rapporteur's table. I don't think that's gonna happen. There's a request for a performance with the priority right of the President of the Chvojka Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Yes, it is. Unfortunately, my colleague Katka Valachová had to leave, she is not well, so she will not be able to report this press, so we would ask for a change in the position of rapporteur and I will offer myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u3	I think the Chamber of Deputies will accept this offer, but we have to vote on it. Then we will vote on the rapporteur for this point as Mrs Valachová, President Chvojka. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 59, 172 Members signed in for 155, against no one. President Chvojka is the new rapporteur for this proposal. We are in the general debate because this point has been interrupted in the general debate. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has given priority to the general debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u4	Thanks for the word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the debate at first reading that has been held so far, when some Members have tabled a motion to reject the proposal at first reading, and I would therefore like to comment on these speeches. First, my colleague Bartoš suggests rejecting it at first reading. It criticizes our Christmas systemization and that it was a short, weekly reminder process. To that end, I would just like to say that we are the changes in systemization for 2018 - approved in December, were made in order to make the government's excessive structure more effective. In fact, our government is very overzealous and bureaucratic, and we're trying to do something about it. The reminder procedure was settled in a proper and standard manner, which corresponds to the explanatory memorandum. There is no settlement of comments and no legislative proposal has ever been included in the explanatory memorandum. On the contrary, the proposal was given great attention, as evidenced by the government's first interruption and then returned to it. With regard to the 40-day deadline for any exceptional service evaluation, it should be said that these are 40 days of service, i.e. basically working time, i.e. that this is a total of two months, when, even in the case of the Labour Code, the courts concluded that this period of time was sufficient to eliminate serious shortcomings in the performance of the work. On the contrary, the current six months are inadequately long. The rejection of the proposal should not take place and there should be room for discussion of the various provisions in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and subsequent readings. Mr Kupka also criticizes that the proposal should not be submitted by the government without trust. We think that the fact that the government is presenting this without confidence is irrelevant, as it has also put forward a number of other important proposals that the House is discussing. A government without trust has the same right to submit bills as a government with confidence. So the proposal will be approved by the same Chamber of Deputies, whether it is submitted by the government with or without confidence. And if there's a second and third reading, there's hope that the government will probably be here with confidence. On the contrary, as regards the administrative burden, the proposals are reducing compared to the current situation. The staff evaluation will no longer be necessary every year, but it will be sufficient once every three years. Two-wheel tenders will be more efficient, faster than three-wheel tenders. [[15.50 hours]] Mr Kupka then draws attention to the possibility of misuse of tenders. The risk of special-purpose selection procedures excludes the composition of examination committees, where for higher posts there is equal representation of members nominated by the Minister and the Secretary of State, the possibility to object to the bias of the members of the Commission, the protocol of the course of the selection procedure, and the fact that all candidates are asked the same questions, etc. There are objections to the Protocol, and any discrimination could also be defended by judicial means. Mr Bartošek's comments. As far as trust is concerned, this is the same argument. The fact that, for example, the State Secretary or Deputy Minister cannot object to the evaluation is because neither the Minister nor the Government has any superior authority anymore. However, this does not prevent the application of appeals in administrative proceedings which will follow up on professional evaluation, such as wage reduction procedures, removal from office or termination of service, where the principles of administrative proceedings, including review in administrative justice, continue to apply. The Minister's assessment of state secretaries is logical, here was an objection, as the Minister knows best how his direct subordinates work. The proposed adjustment is not harsh. For example, the new Slovak service law allows the government to withdraw state secretaries at any time, while in our country it is still tied to the lack of quality of their work. Comments on the career order. Career regulations are not disrupted, as people from outside the public administration are allowed to tender for the presented procedure in the second round. Therefore, if a suitable candidate is found in the first round, the post of service will be filled in accordance with the principles of the career order. Only if a suitable candidate is not found is the second round, where persons from outside the public administration can participate. The fact that a slightly shorter practice is required in the second round is due to the fact that someone can be chosen at all. It is true that in the first round no one suitable with the necessary practice was ever chosen, the conditions of practice in the second round apply the same to all applicants, and therefore the people in the business are not favoured against those in the public sphere. The second rounds are generally set in such a way as to allow multiple applicants to apply when the first round of fewer applicants failed to choose. So even after the amendment, the selection of the leaders will still be fully transparent. We have discussed this with the government several times, and it has been consulted with the European Commission, so I would very much like this amendment to be adopted so that we can actually manage our administration more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. President Bartoš is also enrolled in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would perhaps like to respond to the last part that was heard here from the Prime Minister's mouth. We really talked at the first readings and at the April meeting about the fact that at the moment when different people from the state administration are removed, from managerial positions, we do not like to touch the service law at this time, and we still basically make it more effective to get someone out of office in a very short period of time, virtually. it's 25 percent; if you have 1 to 5, 4 to 5 failed, you're going to get a percentage that you can negatively assess that official. But there's a lot of stuff like that. The Prime Minister has also mentioned that this matter has been consulted with the European Commission. On the 15th of this month, the Commission's conclusions were also published and the Deputy Minister of Interior for Civil Service Josef PostráneckPostránecký received a letter in which the European Commission criticises these points. It's really the release in the second round, it's the simplicity, virtually. short time to settle those changes. At the same time, and this has also been said here, and the lack of delivery of analyses on the basis of which these changes are made in the proposal. We were talking about the explanatory memorandum that was said, but something else was going on here. There was a questionnaire inquiry in the government towards the institutions covered by this law, and we talked to representatives of some authorities in the state administration, who talked about the fact that they had reservations about this and these reservations were not taken into account. That is why we asked if this questionnaire procedure - not then the seven-day round, respectively. Weekly government - was sufficient and if these comments were taken into account. Not in our opinion. So the verdict or the letter from the European Commission went in the same direction that there are not enough relevant analyses to support these proposed changes. We were more at peace with the first part, but the personnel situation, as we watch it from the media, was not so heated. Therefore, we have indeed tightened up the government to recast, which was the first proposal that we considered with colleagues from other clubs, for example, and we propose to reject this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u7	Thank you. The rapporteur Chvojka is also included in the debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I do not want to abuse the role of rapporteur, I have signed up as a Member who wants to express my opinion on the amendment of this law, virtually. not your opinion, but the opinion of the Union of State Authorities and Organisations, which today sent an opinion on the proposal, respectively. to the amendment to the Civil Service Act. I think it's the union body, virtually. The association is very important, it brings together many thousands of people who work in state bodies and organisations, so it would be good to hear what this Trade Union of State Authorities and Organisations has to say about this amendment. So I quote: "The union of institutions and organisations disagrees with the proposal for an amendment to the Civil Service Act, which is discussed as House press number 132. Although we do not reject all the changes in the proposal contained, the amendment as a whole poses a danger of destabilising and strengthening the political influence on the civil service and, as such, we continue to reject it. The proposed changes in the occupation of posts presented may mean the possibility of major intervention in depoliticisation and separation of the political and professional leadership of the service offices. They make it easier and also at shorter time intervals to remove the presented ones, mitigate the requirements for the professional practice of new applicants and propose changes to all levels of management, including the heads of departments. We consider changes to the service evaluation, in particular by abandoning the principle of its annual implementation, to be non-discriminatory, inefficient and disadvantageous for civil servants and undignified. The legislation thus proposed weakens the status of a civil servant and his independence," which - I am now going beyond what the trade union says - is, of course, against what we followed three years ago by this law. "Without consulting the social partners, the proposal included provisions governing the consultation and information of civil servants, respectively. their representatives. The proposed change devalues the relationship between the trade union organisation and the service office and leaves to your liking for individual authorities, who and at what level will deal with representatives of civil servants. We consider that undignified." Conclusion of the Trade Union of State Authorities and Organisations: "In view of the rushed preparation, the fundamental shortcomings of the proposal and its potentially very problematic effects, we call on individual Members' clubs to carefully consider the support for this proposal." While I can speak for the CSSD club, we will vote to reject this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u9	Thank you. Mr Kupka is also entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u10	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I drew attention to this and demanded, demanded, suggested that the amendment really go back to recasting, because it contains hidden traps. And even now, the Prime Minister has not answered them, because he has not found a satisfactory solution to the fact that in that two-year new model of tender, there may not be a choice in the first round, that, in short, even if there is a suitable candidate, it opens the way to the fact that the first rounds can really be just a sort of shadowy, just a sort of game of how it's going to happen. Moreover, it was said that why the government should not propose such a law without trust. Well, I would like to remind you once again that it was actually a government in a similar composition as it is now looming, which brought us into the current situation, and therefore we have no guarantee, or even any signal that it should move in a significantly better way. If social democracy is objecting here, I assume that if it is already heading into that government with the YES movement, it will be able to enforce its proposals and its objections to the negotiation of the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u11	Have a good afternoon. And we will continue the general debate. I have here a request for a speech by Minister Klára Dostálová and Minister Adam Vojtěch will be prepared. Minister Metnar also after, yes. You have your word. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I'd take the liberty of dividing my performances into two blocks like this. First of all, it must be said that I really was at the first meeting with the European Commission. And why I went there, although it is not, of course, the law in the MMR, is because we have clarified with the European Commission the compliance with the Partnership Agreement. It should be noted that the Civil Service Act, so called. Conditionality, that is, on the basis of the drawing of European funds. Each meeting is referred to as: an official entry, it's called TIC, and if you don't mind, I would quote a few words from that entry, because the whole negotiation was in the spirit that I confirmed to the European Commission that what the media are writing is not what the government has actually achieved. And there was a fundamental contradiction because the European Commission wanted three-stage proceedings to be maintained. They had information that we wanted to bring down the level of the Deputys, that we actually wanted to give the Deputys a code of work, etc. etc. So there were really a lot of fetuses that actually had to be explained to the European Commission. Of course, the European Commission has said that it will not evaluate formal changes, that it is only about maintaining, of course, independent state administration, which is why the law is so important to the Commission. And now I am literally quoting: "The Commission understands, of course, that the law must operate not only on paper, but above all in practice. If we have a problem with its functioning, the law needs to be adapted, but, as has already been said, changes must not affect the stability of the state administration. If the proposed amendments comply with the Partnership Agreement, the European Commission does not see a problem in them." So, based on this, of course, the committee knew that, actually, after my meeting, this law would be discussed by the government. The Commission has requested further technical meetings, which have already been attended, of course, by the law maker, the Ministry of the Interior, and we are actually clarifying the various aspects of the law. The MMR always takes part in these negotiations with the view that the Partnership Agreement should not be disrupted, and I can assure you that it is not. The amendment of the Service Act is in about five districts, which I think there can be no debate at all, that it is for the benefit of the entire state administration of the Czech Republic. Firstly, it is the opening of tendering procedures. What's happening at the ministries today is cannibalization. We take officials among ourselves and are unable to recruit specialists from the private sphere. So, of course, the first round will always apply to those who are in the public administration system, but it's been more open since the second round of the competition. It is also introduced, on the contrary, that if, of course, a deputy from one ministry leaves and signs up for a tender with the other Ministry, you could have accepted it today without a tender. On the bill's proposal, they all have to go to the ministries if they want to go there, of course, through the selection process. Another, which is, is the system of evaluation adjustment. You know, it can be taken in different ways. The law allows - today you had an evaluation once a year and either you succeeded or you failed. But when you failed, there was no appeal to think about yourself and say, good, something I did wrong, changed my way of working. Because when you gave him a really negative assessment, good on the level, it brings with it today that you're gonna touch that guy's money. You're just gonna cut his salary. But he can actually get better in a year. That seems very unfair to me, because each of us can have certain life situations where he just has a little bit of a problem with himself, but by not being able to fix it quickly and you're not able to quickly return the salary, so it leads to a great demotivation. At the same time, if everything works well, why expose the state administration to the fact that we have to evaluate every year? Just once every two years or three years. And that also allows the amendment to the service law. Of course, that's where the removal... We have many fields of public service. We've got 79 today, and we're really debating 30, 40. Why does a person who, for example, manages European funds, have a different field of service at the MMR and at the Office of the Government? They're doing the same agenda. So, of course, even from this point of view, we need to focus on that. And if, of course, people change disciplines, services, everyone's gonna have to take a test within 12 months, that's the state exam. On the contrary, the new law allows for career progress, when you evaluate employees twice in a row with the best grades, can advance their careers, even if he is a young person, by one career degree. That means pay grade. So I really don't think that the way the bill is designed today, that it should, in any way, disrupt the stability of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u13	I thank the Minister. I would therefore now like all Members to have an overview of when they will be placed in order. So with a point of fact, President Grospič here, she's the only one here. Furthermore, with priority rights, Minister Vojtěch Adam, Minister Němcová, President Farský and President Stanjura. So now, with a point of fact, I would ask for Mr Grospič's speech. No, sorry. I'm sorry, it's not factual. Mr Grospič for the general debate. So I'm gonna ask the Minister of Health. Please. And also Secretary Schillerová. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have considered for a moment whether to address this proposal for an amendment to the Civil Service Act. But I think that is appropriate, because here we are still talking about the issue of stability or instability of the state service, so how the law works in practice, etc. And so I would like to actually introduce you to the functioning of the law in that practice, because I live in that public service at the Ministry of Health, and I must say that my feeling is that it is rather the current wording that leads to the destabilisation of the competent authorities. Specifically, in the case of the Ministry of Health. I represent you in front of the resort, which has long been affected by the highest level of personnel from all the central authorities of the state administration in the Czech Republic. In 2016, it was 65 percent, occupancy in the resort. The Ministry of Health in 2017 took over a situation where each third employee was missing, where some trade unions had only head of the department without ordinary employees. In this complicated situation, I was supposed to implement a program that was slowly not possible with whom to implement it. And unfortunately, it's not today. When I looked for the cause of these problems after I joined the Ministry, I carried out a questionnaire among the employees, a rather extensive questionnaire investigation involving over 80 percent of the employees. And I am deeply convinced that the main reason for this catastrophic health situation is the long-term inability to effectively manage staff from the highest position in the Ministry, i.e. from the position of Secretary of State. [[16.10 hours]] The Civil Service Act was intended to stabilise civil servants, guarantee them that there would be no reason for staffing, whenever there was a change in the highest management. The Secretary of State was supposed to be the guarantor for this stability. However, the law no longer remembers situations where the Secretary of State does not create the required stability, but, on the contrary, by his literally power moves, the Personnel Office destructs. And unfortunately, there is no legal tool to effectively prevent this rampage in a short time. The exception is only the disciplinary procedure, which, by its nature, is an instrument exceptional and, given the similarity to criminal or criminal proceedings, is quite time-consuming. I know it from experience. I filed a disciplinary complaint against the Secretary of State on February 12th. Until today, even the disciplinary committee has not sat down - and I say again that we are facing a major staff destabilization and personnel emergency at the Ministry of Health. I therefore think that this disciplinary procedure is not an entirely appropriate tool for dealing with the unsystematic, purposeful and often irrational behaviour of the responsible. To illustrate the situation, I give an example of how, for example, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health has unlawfully delayed the process of the selection procedure as Director of the State Institute for Drug Control, which is urged not only by me but also by Deputy Minister Postránecký, who has already issued a decision stating clearly the legality of the State Secretary's procedure. Yet we have no results yet. For five months there has been a tender for the Director of the State Institute for Drug Control, which decides on tens of billions of crowns, and neither has the selection committee. Unfortunately, this is how the Civil Service Act works in practice. If I am responsible for the functioning of the Health Department, which is one of the key components of the SÚKL, I think this is unacceptable. The provisional situation is, I think, absolutely unacceptable, and I believe that this is what the State Secretary's procedure is behind. But it's not the only example of failure I've witnessed in the last five months. The question is also why the selection procedure for, for example, the most important technical deputy at the Ministry of Health, who is to manage the health insurance system and directly managed organisations, also lasts almost five months and any further procedural step is always a matter of several weeks. This is how personnel policy works under the Civil Service Act. I also ask if it's okay that the Secretary of State doesn't consult the proposals for changing the Ministry's systemization with his minister and send him directly to the government. Is it okay that, in the given deadlines, they do not fulfil the strategic tasks assigned, bringing so much needed benefits to employees, whom my predecessors have already called for, because they have the same problem as, for example, the operation of flexible working hours? The Department of Health doesn't know that. Or a revision of employee remuneration methods. Is it acceptable that he's been going through these mistakes for years, and ministers don't have the tools to make amends? They don't. In short, the law does not allow this to be resolved. Unfortunately, the only option is to complain, to the Deputy Minister of Interior for the Civil Service of Mr Postránecký, but essentially without result. To illustrate the paradox of current legislation, I add a question for reflection. Is it right that the person who grants remuneration to the State Secretary is the Deputy Minister of the Interior for Civil Service, who basically doesn't know his work? He's not with him every day at the Ministry of Health, or in general at any ministry. If you think it's okay, then you also need to explain why I'm not the only Minister of Health, but the Secretary of State has been criticized by three ministers in a row. Since the effectiveness of the Civil Service Act, he has always received the maximum possible remuneration that he can receive under the law. One of you may think that the problem is really on my side as Minister of Health, but it's not. I am already the third minister who criticizes the state secretary's work at the Ministry of Health. In 2016, Minister Němeček, who cannot really be regarded as a friend of mine, had already written a complaint to the Secretary of State and proposed a negative assessment and even suggested that the Secretary of State be dismissed. I can quote what Minister Němeček wrote back in 2016: "Unfortunately, I am forced to say that the Minister of State has not performed his duties in the long term in order to ensure the performance of the state service organizational matters at the Ministry of Health, he repeatedly does not respect my instructions. In connection with the approved budget of the Ministry of Health in the field of payroll for 2016, he deliberately decided not to exhaust the wage at the expense of the Office staff. In relation to the Office's personnel situation, I consider this measure to be a fundamental failure to act as Secretary of State." He also wrote a letter directly to the State Secretary when he wrote, and I quote: "The personal situation at the Ministry of Health is very trivial. More than a quarter of the posts are not occupied. Proposals to increase salary components in the case of often key employees in order to keep them in office are rejected with argument that they do not have the means to do so. As a result, however, the salaries will not be spent this year, in the order of millions of crowns." And so on and so forth. "You are completely unfit to perform your duties." This was written by Minister Němeček in 2016. He also informed the Deputy Minister for Civil Service - and the Secretary of State is still in office and the Ministry of Health is still facing the same personnel problems. This is also confirmed by my predecessor at the Ministry, Minister Ludvík, and also by a number of executives who have written a complaint against the Secretary of State, whether they are directors of sanitary stations or head of the Ministry of Health. Several health station directors, who are subject to the Secretary of State, have written to me a comprehensive complaint about how the Director of County Hygiene Stations is not in principle leading, entering illogical tasks, saving complaints and incentives, prohibiting business trips by regional health station directors and so on. So, unfortunately, that's the result of the state secretary's work. I therefore think that this is not only my impression, but there are a number of complaints about this from both the former ministers and the Ministry's staff and the leading positions. According to the results of the questionnaire investigation, a large proportion of the staff of the said meeting is confirmed by the Secretary of State. Again, 80 percent of the employees responded and are considering leaving the Ministry of Health, which is basically unsatisfactory. They've identified the work or the State Secretary's person as the main reason. I have not yet received a decision on the new salary when I advocated an increase in personal allowances for employees who were perceived as inadequate by the Ministry of Health employees, despite the fact that the service evaluation was carried out by 31 March 2018. I ask, what is the question of the motivation of such employees to remain in the civil service, to remain in the service of the state administration, unless they receive from the Secretary of State or an increase in the personal contributions due to them on the basis of an official evaluation carried out as early as 31 March 2018? In recent years, despite proposals for professional evaluations to increase the personal bonus, the State Secretary's decision did not result in that increase. Therefore, many employees are aware of the current delay in making decisions with considerable concern. And I hope that in the end the employee can be rewarded. Another issue, for example, is the question of the request to postpone service hours by workers who take care of children, have health restrictions or other serious reasons. Such requests shall be rejected to a large extent by the Secretary of State. If staff members in specially justified cases have to carry out work outside the service period, they are often not responding to requests for overtime regulations. Is this approach appropriate for the Secretary of State at the time of the lowest unemployment? I don't think so. I do not agree with the opinion he has made, and I quote: "They can leave because others will come. " If a child care worker applies for a home office within one day of a week and this application is rejected at a great distance from time, I do not consider personnel policy at the Ministry of Health to be completely normal. In the end, most employees expressed themselves in the questionnaire investigation for the return of the scheme contained in the Labour Code, which also shows a great deal. [[16.20 hours]] In Postránecký of the fact that disciplinary proceedings have been conducted with the Secretary of State, the situation in the Ministry is almost not improving, as the Minister does not have effective tools to manage the Ministry's staff. The Minister may run the Ministry, but in principle the Secretary of State is more. On the contrary, if the Secretary of State behaves the way the Secretary of State behaves at the Ministry of Health, this creates uncertainty and distrust among employees of the change that everyone deserves after long years. For many months, flexible working hours have been introduced at the Ministry of Health, various benefits are being prepared, but everything is still incomplete, at a time when we have the lowest unemployment in Europe. It is therefore necessary to adapt the Civil Service Act in such a way that similar systemic errors are avoided in the future. It should be the Minister and not the Secretary of State who has a decisive influence on the ministry's operation. This is what they dare say, for it is I who personally answer to you, ladies and gentlemen, here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies for the tasks and events that take place on the floor of the Ministry of Health, not my Secretary of State. However, the factual situation is different and the Minister does not have the tools to manage the Ministry of Health effectively. I think that if - and I consider the Secretary of State as the Chief of Staff of the Office - such a personnel director worked in another company and he had such results that his employees were leaving rather than coming, that he had 65 percent of the occupation of the Ministry, the lowest of all the central government bodies, then probably every owner of such a company would get rid of the HR. However, even though, as I say, my predecessors have tried to do so, they have failed, and it seems that I will not, too, because the law is very rigid in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u15	I thank the Minister for the performance. I would therefore now like to recapitulate the priority rights applied for: Minister Němcová, yes, it is on its way, President Farský, President Stanjura, Minister Schillerová, Minister Brabec, and further to the general debate without priority, Mr Grospič and Mr Volný Member. So, Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, at first I should not have at all, I confess, I intend to keep you here and perform with my wisdom, but I will not give it to me and forgive the delay if it is delayed. If we took over our colleagues in December or made a promise at the castle, and I can say for myself, but I think that for them too, very responsiblely proceeded to take over the authorities, so exactly the same and with the same feeling of great responsibility I took over my office as well. I thought, and I'm convinced that if the Minister runs the Ministry, the Ministry is responsible, responsible for its operation, and responsible for what's going on in the Ministry. We all have flaws, abundance, flaws, virtues. If there's one thing that none of you can blame me for, I think, is that I haven't had many years of experience in managing big companies, as well as in managing finance and the economy, and always in line with all the rules, and always a critical question for me was the three words and the incantation: effectively, economically and effectively. I didn't think I'd be surprised by anything else in the field of economics, public money management, private money, finance. But I was very wrong. After taking up, when I started running about an 800-billion-dollar budget of public funds, all of our taxpayers' funds, all of us, so - I don't want to give you wisdom here, I'm just gonna give you a few examples, because I'm not a Member, and I don't have the opportunity to make a difference about how I could change this situation, and that's what the new bill is about. It wasn't a long-knife night at the Labor Department. I joined, agendas shattered, so as a regular manager, I suggested a systemization that was proper. That was the end of the year. If you find anything wrong with the fact that nine of the deputies, the nine sections will form seven sections, that they will release the redundant - in my opinion, and I am still very deeply convinced today after five months - the department heads, the union directors, that the agenda is fragmented, when one substantive agenda is being processed up to five sections, five unions, if these changes are made, which will definitely lead and will make the office more efficient, that it would be nights of long knives, it really wasn't. However, the deputies who left - and which were also mentioned here today, because these are the very often mentioned experts in the media who came to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from the private sector, from banking, so they also showed their skills and, after five months of working at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and I deal with the two controls of the Supreme Audit Office, which speak of hundreds of millions and the other about billions of inefficiently spent funds, uneconomically, many of the cases have already been dealt with after internal audits, forensic audits, as well as the authorities involved in criminal proceedings, pay the lord for the fact that those deputys, who are certainly still going to withdraw and maybe even judge them, and some have already started, no longer working in the ministry for the simple reason that some of them who have remained, for example head of the department, and were also part of the decision-making processes that led to these billions of public funds, so I will say it completely on the ground - that, according to the current regulation, if you simply recount them on the Czech administration, if you simply do so on the third time, if you are still doing so, if you are still doing so, because you have been doing so, you have to the services. And I'm not picking him or calling him off. He's just not the director, because as a manager, as the head of an organization like this subordinate to the Ministry, if he's not in the Civil Service, he won't get there in the second or third round, because he's just not gonna get there. If you manage the Ministry, but the entire course of officials, their task, their control, their evaluation is managed by the Secretary of State and you have reservations about it, you can and are objective if the Secretary of State decides not to do anything, so it simply doesn't do it, because if you have serious errors and you have a forensic audit on your desk and you have control of the Supreme Audit Office and you say in January "it is necessary to start taking action" and you repeatedly ask, not even a disciplinary procedure will begin. Neither the disciplinary procedure nor the selection procedure will begin, and nothing will begin unless the Secretary of State decides. So the only way you can manage hundreds of billions of crowns in my case is to write a four-page letter after five months and send the deputy to the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Postránecký, some sort of discontent, where you note that your state secretary is simply not doing what he should be doing. Representatives who weren't there - and we are now proving to be talking about major irregularities in the economy, the deputy managing the economy, so in the SAO's result it was said that about CZK 9 billion was misaccounted for and that the accounting did not correspond completely to the accounting law and had nothing to do with any kind of financial control principles under Act 320, so it's nice that it's gone, but I'm asking what in the future. Because if we don't take measures very quickly to simply, in a good way now, to ministers who sit on ministries and, in my opinion, behave like good economic operators and good managers, then if we don't loosen their hands, that path is very bad. And I would like to point out, and this, after my five months of experience at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, can also mean other huge losses and enormous inefficiency that this process and this set-up situation can lead to. [[I don't think ……]] Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u17	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And I will now ask President Farský for his word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of one fact that is neglected here in these speeches. The government rules without trust and reigns in demise. He represents 78 Members of this Chamber of Deputies, that is to say club YES. And if there's a government proposal coming in, let's not be wrong, it's still just a yes motion. He's over the edge, I think what kind of personal changes the government has taken in demise. How many people have had to leave their positions, whether under pressure or voluntarily, we'll never know. But those cases, they're more than they should be, and in the security area, it's really beyond the edges. At the same time, if this government without trust, in demise, wants to accept that it still wants to set the rules, so that really is too much. It is a situation where we hear from individual ministers for the YES movement of government in demise, how the law for which the YES movement voted is actually completely wrong. From the top officials of the state administration to the lowest. How it actually makes the state administration work, how it needs to be changed, almost possibly until it is abolished. When I crossed out what was being criticized here from the existing Civil Service Act only after expressing that the Minister should have under him the entire personnel policy of the Ministry so that he could manage it effectively, I wonder: What remains of the original bill of the Civil Service Act? And I'll tell you what's left. That the adoption of the Civil Service Act changed the situation in which the Minister and, respectively, a member of the Government had to submit a pure illustration certificate. And the fact that they no longer have to submit it brought about this Civil Service Act. And after hearing the criticism of this law from the first to the last paragraph outside this one fact, I can see why the ANO movement approved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u19	Thank you. And now here's a point of fact. Mr Pavel Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Really a point of fact. This did not bring this Civil Service Act. That's what the petitioners did by the last law. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I'd like to read two apologies. Today, from 17 o'clock to the end of the day, for health reasons, Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes, and today from 16 o'clock to the end of the day, Minister Robert Pelikán apologizes for his work duties within the Justice Department. I have now received the withdrawal of some applications for the debate, which is why we have already narrowed the number of applications. Yes, but I see here that another factual point has come up, so Mr Volný. Please. On the other hand, I would like to read for an overview: subsequently, President Stanjura, Minister Schillerová and Minister Brabec have been withdrawn and then we have Mr Grospič here. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u22	Colleagues, co-workers, I'll be short, hopefully I can fit in those two minutes. I would like to respond through the President to my colleague Farský. I was a member of the committee that put this bill together three or four years ago. We fought with our coalition partners to make it more accessible, so that there weren't enough binding possibilities for new, capable people to come. And oddly enough, the whole right was clapping for us, and it was very supportive of us. That's why I'm a little sorry that the moment we realized it or when it turned out that it was a really big problem, they wanted to block it for us. I would like to ask, in particular, those Members who are new in the House to consider and let them pass this law for a second reading, to get familiar with the current situation, the proposal that it is. It's not that this government wants to deliberately improve its positions, but it's been for years. And to do something logical, sensible to make it work. I think we can, or the House of Honor may reject it at third reading, put a lot of amendments in there, but let's discuss it, colleagues, whether what the ministers here said, and it was sometimes awful, like what the Minister of Health said, if there isn't a little truth in it. And let's leave this political perspective, government in demise, government not in demise, and let's see if this law is really good, and if it doesn't need any reconstruction and adjustment after three or four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u23	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Ambassador, I've had you enrolled in the general debate, so you're downloading it already? [[Members of the Free Member]] Okay. So now we have two Members who have applied for, it is with priority rights, Mr Stanjura, and then Mr Grospič. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u24	Thank you for the floor. It's hard to perform after the fairy tales we're listening to here. The first fairy tale is when the government came after the election, they have no coalition rivals, they're one crew, one team, everything works. Then you'll find that one Minister is filing a criminal complaint, and the other Minister is calling the Security Council of the State. Something went wrong, comrades of the GDR. It's not a whole bunch of them. Now, about the service bill. If it wasn't so serious, I'd say yes to the representatives of the movement, especially those who were here in the last parliamentary term: Serves you right. Almost everything you've been talking about and criticizing, almost everything we've been suggesting is out of the law and not there. But your Minister Jourová, Šlechtová, Minister Brabec, one after the other, as on the clock, came here and said: "We have a task to do from Brussels, we have to depoliticize the public administration, we must not interfere with it, let's just have political deputys, let's make these expert vice-chairs, there will be selection procedures. We warned about it. What kind of tender for deputy? Then there's that minister like MilouMilouš Jakeš like a stake in a fence. I understand. But you made it up because President Zeman wanted it. And you were in. Serves you right. All Deputys are to come with the Minister and leave with the Minister. There's no such thing as a non-political deputy. You guys canceled the section director, which are valuable jobs, very qualified people, who, of course, are supposed to carry out the political task of who sets up the government and has a majority. And I'm saying it from a position of opposition. Yet it is impossible and senseless of the section directors to make deputy ministers who then have to go to committees and lead a political duel with us. They're not ready for it, it doesn't fit, it's completely wrong. Good for you, we warned you. For the Minister of Health. A young man like that, maybe he could ask one of his mayors or the chief of staff who's the chief of staff at City Hall or the governorship. Secretary of the municipal office or municipal office or director of the regional office. Do mayors, mayors and captains handle it, or do they whine like you? A) is correct. They can deal with it. They're handling the situation. That speech by the Minister of Health would normally be regarded as a sharp opposition act by the shadow minister of health, who did not leave dry on the real Minister of Health, how weak he is, can't enforce anything, as officials train with him and he just whines, whines, whines. [[16.40 hours]] kupodivu enough, it wasn't the shadow minister of health, but it was real. [[A note from the diaper.]] Maybe there were two of them before him, the Social Democrats. Well, it's possible that the ministers of Němeček and Ludvík did the same. I'm sorry. But that's no excuse. You were actually complaining about yourself. You can't give Demis, so leave. Really. I feel sorry for you. Nobody wants you there, everybody throws sticks at you, you don't have people there, you have a criminal state secretary there. By the way, co-workers, co-workers, who's gonna appoint the Secretary of State? The government. Who was in the last government? The YES movement. So who voted in favour of the impossible saboteurs, state secretaries who are so corrupting ministers without trust in demise? Among other things, the ministers of the YES movement. But to be fair, also the ministers of the ČSSD and the ministers of the KDU. Quite a lot of things in this proposal are correct from the point of view of civil democrats. But it's demonstrated by the government without trust. Then ministers lose faith in their subordinates, some. That's really funny. More like crying, but it'd be funny. Mr Volný and some others say: What is it that you still have to trust? What's with the trust? It doesn't really matter. It doesn't matter. This is a fundamental condition of our Constitution, this is not some opposition game. And you're whining that your state secretaries work badly and don't draw money and take people. So figure it out! That's what you're there for. If you can't do it, leave. And remember, in the screen recording of your ministers' withdrawal from the YES movement, as it is necessary to have it. And it was much worse, the original proposal. Much worse. And after the opposition's pressure - and by the way, for the Minister of Health, I recommend a series or a book, both are my favorite, Mr. Secretary. It's all there. When you tried to deceive us in the debate, I threatened to read the book. Then you cheated on us in one vote, I think mostly the Social Democrats, to be fair, to give the wounds fairly, so I came here and started reading. And in the third paragraph, you gave up, you took the foul back, and then we discussed a compromise. We defined the five basic things that we agreed on. Then another 20, and we didn't agree on those anymore. And it was about transparency, the openness of the public service so that we could attract experts from practice to the public service. You were against it. We were against the cancellation of contract salaries because how do you want to pay those top experts? You were against it. You got what you wanted, so don't complain. You, the ministers, the way they performed on the clock here, it's like they came after the government, where they've been in opposition for four years. Then you'd have every right to use those sentences. I told you to deal with it. If you can't do it, leave. But you're complaining about yourself. And yet you say, Jesus, that's so wrong, back us up. You can see that. Yes, we can see that. But first, have confidence, then let's talk about it. What do we have undersecretaries for? Let's talk about it. What are they for? I agree with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Nine or seven Deputys, both ridiculous. Four, I'd say, is just about right. But you're supposed to have them in your jurisdiction, Madam Secretary, you're supposed to choose them, they're supposed to have your trust, and then you can handle the office. And now it's not personal, but that's how it's supposed to work. That's what we suggested, and we were against it. And what did we do? We have threatened tens of billions of European funds! Remember the debate. That's exactly what happened. But to avoid being so general, it is not true that the civil service and civil servants as a whole are all bad. But again, when we talk about pay, where does the current left-wing government go? To raise salaries. Everything on the tariffs. A little motivation for the greats to have a chance to make more money to stay in the public service. If we succumb to the perverse vision of the world, it is often in the relationship between employers and employees that we still live in the 19th century, they are bad employers and good employees. After all, there is nothing better for a minister of any kind than to have top experts in their ministry who carry out the political assignment and programming statements of the government and who, if necessary, defend on committees and lead opponents with opposition. It's okay. What kind of minister would fire capable people? Well, they're like that. But they're gonna fly, too. Then they'll be fired by the Prime Minister or by their own party. Unfortunately, that happens. You too have very often made the wrong choice, and we have very often chosen the wrong one. But if the minister or minister gets rid of capable people, the office doesn't work, and eventually the government, or the party, or the coalition, will get rid of that minister. Logically. And good for him. In my opinion, the correct proposal by my colleague Martin Kupka is to return to the process. We're ready for a rational debate. Perhaps we would have opened it even more in some of the provisions. We would certainly be in favour of extending the circle of people who come and go with the minister, because it seems logical to us. But the condition is simple. If we want to change the rules on civil service, then the government has to do it with confidence. That's perfectly logical. And then I'd like to hear, especially from those who have threatened us here from the ministers for the YES movement, that if we don't approve the bill in the wording that you rightly criticize today, we will lose money. So we won't lose them if we change it? Did you lie then or now? Or has the European Commission changed its mind? It was really important back then, and it doesn't matter now? I don't know. But at the time, it was completely ultimate. Don't approve of it the way it is. We're gonna lose tens of billions. You guys loved saving them until you saved them. I saw the numbers yesterday in the new programming period. The next government, now I don't mean the other one of yours, but the next one, the real next one, will save it again. Those numbers are just as catastrophic as they were seven years ago when we looked at the programming period. So it's kind of funny. Maybe another minister will stand here and say, "We need to tighten up the service bill." We must completely remove the powers of politicians, because otherwise we will leave the billions in Brussels. I've heard it here before, I wouldn't be surprised if it was a second time. Such a brief summary, even in the past, to see how the proposal was made. You voted for him, the YES movement. So are we. I have to say, too, because we made some compromise because today he's the Deputy Minister of Civil Service. Read the original proposal. He was a complete ruler, the general director of the civil service. That was a full-blown state-service ruler from top to, I'd say, the officials at the last department of the smallest ministry. The biggest nonsense, when I put it politely, we removed it together, I admit it, and many of the problematic things that we pointed out, proposed and voted on as amendments, you rejected. I think it's fair to give it back, to have a debate with the opposition. We are really rational in this because we think that elections decide who rules in this country. The government is supposed to have a majority, it's supposed to have a programming statement, and the ministries are supposed to carry out the political program that most voters have chosen. That seems normal to us. If we happen to be in opposition because we happen to be in opposition now, we will be in opposition, but we will not change the rules. The rules have to be the same, and politicians have to make decisions. And the Bureau is supposed to serve them. On the other hand, there must be something that will prevent ministers from acting insolently. I was convinced that when the government first in its history, and it was your government, and it chose the first state secretaries in history, that it would choose well. And now I listen to one minister after another, not all of them, but many of them as bad as they are. First of all, I don't remember when they were appointed. But the term of office is five years, so maybe it'll be over for some. Or have you longed for them, the bad guys? It really is not my job to find out when the Secretary, the Secretary of State, was appointed to the Ministry. But he's in the law for five years. With the approval of the government, Mr. Health Minister. With the approval of the government. Your government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u25	Thank you. And another with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u26	Good afternoon, colleagues. I did not want to perform and prolong this debate, however, after the performance of the ODS head Zbyněk Stanjura I have to respond as the chairman of the parliamentary club during the last parliamentary term. Yes, we should have listened more to some of these views. It's our fault. It's my fault. But who doesn't make mistakes? Now we have some concrete experience and we want to make this right and we want to discuss it with all of you in the House. [[16.50 hours]] So I accept it for myself, it's my position, it's my personal opinion, because I've been there for the debate, all the time, when the law was being prepared, and unfortunately, and I'm going to say it completely openly here, I've already told it to some of you colleagues and colleagues, there were two opinions against each other at the time. Unfortunately, the majority opinion was that it was unfair to those civil servants who sat there for 20 years and sat there, letting someone better from the outside. Unfortunately, that view won. I'm not saying specifically who pushed him, who were the people, that would be unfair, it's over, and we're trying to make up for our mistake now. That is why I would like to ask that we release this law into second reading and allow it to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u27	Thank you. I'll read one apology. The meeting is apologized to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. And now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u28	Thank you for the floor. Just a very brief response to President Faltýnek, because colleagues Farský and Stanjura here have more or less said the reservations we have, I do not want to repeat them. But Chairman Faltýnek is right. They were up against each other then, very fundamentally, two opinions. That one opinion claimed that a member of the government had to present a clean illustration certificate, as did 27 years ago all governments to all presidents. The second view was that a member of the government did not have to present a clean illustration certificate. And frankly, the reason you're in such a hurry, colleagues, to approve these mistakes, as you say today, is just this one, no other one. And indeed the majority in this House, let us remember that they were clubs YES, social democracy and KDU-ČSL, raised their hand for a law that removed the obligation of government members to present a pure illustration certificate. That's a mistake we'd like to correct because we think it's still up to date and it would still belong there. So if there was any way to trust you, I'd say yes, let's put it into second reading and let's fix this mistake too. But after the experience we did yesterday, no matter how we make a deal with you, it's never gonna happen anyway. So we will vote in favour of rejection, if this is not accepted, we will vote in favour of re-evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u29	Well, thank you. Yes, we already have a motion to dismiss. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u30	I listened to President Faltýnek, and I will make a procedural proposal that could be a compromise. I understand that we would return it or reject that the legislative path will extend or significantly extend, so allow me, on behalf of our club, not to speak for the others, to propose a suspension of this item at first reading until the Czech Government has gained confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. I consider that correct. That is, if - and that is our basic reservation - if the government gains confidence, and it is up to those negotiations as it will be, we are ready to go back to that and, if necessary, release this bill to second reading. I consider this to be a compromise proposal, depending on whether you use it or not, I cannot really influence it. If not, then we will vote both in favour of rejection or for recovery, depending on the order in which vote will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u31	We have a procedural proposal here, so we're going to vote on it. I'll call all the MPs from the lobby. Yeah, checkout request, so I'll check you out. Please log in again with your voting cards... Let's see how the kvorum is bouncing in. The number of Members is still increasing... I think we're in sufficient numbers here. I'll read again what we're going to vote on. We have here a motion to suspend the motion to negotiate this bill until the Government has gained its trust. Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? So I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting, press the button and raise your hand. If you are against interruption, press the button and raise your hand. 164 Members registered, for 75, against 88, abstained from 1st. The motion was denied. So we'll keep talking. And now, since I have no preferential right here, I will ask Mr Grospič to speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador. Otherwise, I have Mr Kytýr's factual remark here, but since it was in the vote, I will just ask if it was a mistake. I suppose so, the Member does not wish to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, I'm a little bit smiling to hear the debate that's flared up over the amendment to the Service Act, even though I agree with a number of my previous speakers over its characteristics and the characteristics of the amendment itself. But it seems to me a little bit like crying over spilled milk, with the milk being spilled by most of the political parties standing here today, because four years ago it was one of the inalienable terms of the President of the Republic to appoint a government, a functioning government in this country, and that's when it was linked to the adoption of a service law. In this context, it was a trošičku forgotten that the service law had already been here, namely Act No. 211/2002 Coll., whose validity, effectiveness has been postponed several times, and then a variant was adopted that it will either be widely amended and, finally, an option was chosen that the law will be adopted completely new. It was not only the European Union that laid down the rule to adopt the law of service, but also the Constitution of the Czech Republic in Article 79 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 is counting on this alternative, so the connection here was double. But perhaps, if there were any adjustments then, necessary, perhaps, which would have been desirable, Law No. 211/2002 Coll. and did not proceed to the creation of a brand new law, so the European Union would be satisfied, the Constitution of the Czech Republic would be fulfilled, and we saved ourselves the traumas that we are now participating in during the entire last parliamentary term, but also now. For your intuition, the current service law has been amended almost 17 times. In four years! This is evidence of the quality of this standard and it is certainly of its importance. The good law to be applied should have the necessary degree of abstraction, stability of the environment, and should also provide certainty within the framework of the stability of the environment that it can be followed, followed and applied in practice. But the service law was a little different. I do not want to repeat the history of the birth of the service law, how it was difficult to write, how the comprehensive amendments were actually completed by his text, which in the end was very difficult to accept in this Chamber of Deputies. [[17,00 hours]] But I find it a little smiling, and colleagues from the right-wing spectrum of this House will not be angry when I say that for their abundant action, because it was they who were the important tongue on the scales that this law should be passed, and the government has thus obtained credit for the appointment of the President of the Republic in the previous term and could apply for trust in this Chamber of Deputies. So I would not be afraid to say that our right-wing parties are largely responsible for this poorly written law, and this is the Civil Democratic Party, the TOP 09 and, of course, the starosta, who then complied with the government coalition, which formed the social democracy and the ANO movement. If it were different, the law might have a slightly different form and would have been discussed much more substantially and much better. I am, of course, in a conflict of interest, and I have to say this here, because I am chairing a smaller trade union, which has had quite reservations about this law from the outset, that we have said and argued that if necessary adjustments were not to be left to the effect of Act No. 211/2002 Coll., if the necessary adjustments were reflected in the Labour Code, that it would be much better in relation to employees than to adopt a new law and loosen up labour law in an inexhaustible number of regulations. And the regulations that changed were a few dozen. So let me say, and I do not want to recapitulate individual changes in the 17 cases where the amendment of this law took place, that the law of service was very expensive fun, which brought only significant financial costs for this state, the civil servants who got under it, did not get much better or better, rather threw them to a large extent of uncertainty, and now it turns out that the state is also difficult to follow. I think, therefore, that if this law is not brought back to recast, it would deserve to extend its time-limit considerably and pay great attention to what will eventually pass through this Chamber of Deputies, travel to the Senate and perhaps return to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll see if it's the last application. [[Member Kaňkovsky is reporting from the position.]] Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u34	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'd still like to respond to the Minister of Health's speech. I didn't make it in a factual note, but I still think that some of his remarks deserve some comment. I completely understand that if a new minister joins the Ministry, he has his ideas about how it should go, he has his ideas about how it should be staffed, but at the same time, as has already been said here, the YES movement sat in the previous government, and the YES movement was involved in the creation and modification of the Service Act. This means that if new ministers joined the Ministry today, and it was almost six months ago, they took over the resort, so they took over the resort with the specialized representatives who were there under the service law, and under the applicable service law, these ministerial representatives got there and were actually chosen there in accordance with the applicable service law. The more disillusionment I think has occurred in a situation where the government, of course, also in accordance with the applicable Civil Service Act, however, I think that in some parameters on its edge, has prepared very quickly the systemization of individual ministries and in the sweat of the face just before Christmas 2017 approved this systemization. And the Department of Health has touched it very much. There were two sections canceled. One so-called supersection was created. Of course it's a right. Personally, I think the way I know how the Ministry of Health works, and I think I've known him for years, so I think that creating one such big supersection will be very difficult and very risky for the functioning of the Ministry of Health. However, it is the right to do so in this way. However, what followed was that a tender was drawn up for this - and we can call it - super deputy. Personally, I have to say, I don't envy such a super deputy in the future, because I think it's going to be a very difficult job to run a section this big. And as a former health care manager, I don't think it's gonna be easy at all to take it in any way. But that will show the future. But the Minister of Health, although he was very critical of the State Secretary here at the Ministry of Health, and I have no reason to defend him in any way, because, as has already been said, criticism has already fallen on his head for past ministers, but the Minister of Health has issued a tender in accordance with the law. The tender took place. The best candidate has been chosen. But given that he was a candidate who was the one resigned Deputy Minister who did not comply with the political concept of the YES movement, the selection procedure was cancelled. And these are things that don't fit into the debate that's going on here today: we want to set it up, we want to set it up so it's transparent, so it's functional. But the moment it doesn't work in any way, we're gonna get it back on track. And I have to say, I'm sorry about this, this approach, because then let's not declare the selection procedures and let's wait for you to adjust the service bill to your taste, but let's not take these steps, which I think are also humiliating to those candidates who took part in the tender in good faith. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u35	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. So I will now look around the hall to see if anyone else wants to comment in the context of the general debate. I don't see anyone. This concludes the general debate. Now let me ask you about the final words. Mr. Home Secretary has already told me that as a plaintiff. Mr Chvojka is not interested in the rapporteur. So, Minister, you have the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief with the fact that I will indeed sum up the proposed changes aimed at creating conditions for greater efficiency and operational efficiency of the state and foreign services, the state administration as a whole. I'm going to respond to some of the things that I'm going to do, to disprove some of these in the quotes of inaccuracy. The results of the questionnaire investigation at the service offices were taken into account in this proposal. The periodicity of the service evaluation is every three years, an example of this. The proposed changes, as my previous speakers said at the beginning, do not pose a risk of politicizing the state administration. The division of political positions and positions from the Service Act remains immutable here in this involvement of trade unions and staff councils. This is de facto a reaction to the Constitutional Court's finding and the rejuvenation with the Labour Code. This is about re-regulation in the Civil Service Act, in contrast to the Code, when the Service Offices will now have to fulfil their responsibilities, for example, with respect to all employees' representatives, i.e. with advice and representatives for the OSH. As far as the Civil Service Act is concerned, it is not about dealing with the illustration certificate, as it was said here. This is a matter of the rendering law. Other things... There's been talk of a whole series of novels. Let me just get this straight. Only two amendments were submitted because of changes in content - foreign service regulation, Senate amendment dealing with exceptions to education - and other amendments merely reflected changes in other laws. So I've been trying, ladies and gentlemen, to set things straight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u37	Thank you, Minister. Now, since there is no interest in the next final word, we will proceed to the vote on the proposals. We have two suggestions here. We would be the first to vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I am noted that, at the 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, this proposal was tabled by Mr Kupka and Mr Benda. He sounded here more than once. But at least I say these names. Furthermore, we have a second proposal that proposes rejecting the proposal. So I suggest we vote first in the order of return. Yes, checkout request. I'll check you all out. At the same time, I will also engage in as many Members as possible... We've got a plus or minus standing up. So I'm going to reread what we're going to vote on. We will begin by voting on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 61. 175 Members registered, for 70, against 97, delayed 8. The motion to return was rejected. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the second proposal, i.e. reject the proposal as a whole. This proposal was tabled, among other things, by Members Bartoš and Bartošek at the 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will take the vote. We know what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 62. 175 Members registered, for 69, against 100, delayed 6. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. So first of all, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? However, I would like to point out here that I have a point here that Mrs Kateřina Valachová proposed at the 12th meeting in the debate also order the Committee on Social Policy and the next committee, namely the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. This means that if someone subsequently has another proposal, these proposals have already been made here. Then I'll ask you one more time. So let us first vote on the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 63. Registered 176 Members, for 173, against 2, abstained 1. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order a proposal to any other committee. I have here, then, a proposal from Mrs Valachová for two more committees. I ask here, in this context, if any of the Members have any more. Yes, Mr. Kaňkovský. [[An application from the diaper.]] And then you'd get out, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u38	I would also like to ask you to be included in the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u39	So there's the Health Committee. And, Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u40	Hello. Mr Kaňkovský took it away from me, I also wanted to recommend health care. And I would also like to ask for a letter from the Defence Committee, because this standard also has a relationship with the State Secretary versus the military. So that's where I'd like to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u41	So Mr Lipavský is proposing to the Health Committee, which we have here in duplicate. And the defense committee. So, overall, we will vote on four proposals. I'll take it one step at a time. We will vote, fellow Members and colleagues. Firstly, we will vote on whether to order a proposal to the Committee on Social Policy. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment to the Social Policy Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 64, registered as 176 Members, for 70, against 89, abstained 17. The motion was denied. The proposal will therefore not be directed to the Committee on Social Policy. Another proposal on which we will vote is the proposal on the commandment of the proposal to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'll begin the vote now. Who is for the commandments to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development? If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 65, 177 Members signed in for 68, against 65, abstained 44. The motion was denied. So the proposal will not even be attributed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. We will therefore proceed to the proposal by Mr Kaňkovský and Mr Lipavský, who have proposed that the proposal be directed to the health committee. So I'm taking the vote now. Whoever is for the commandment to the health committee, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 66, 177 Members voted in favour of 67, against 72, abstained 38. The motion for a commandment to the Health Committee has been rejected. And we will vote on the last motion on the commandment to the committee. It is a proposal by Mr Lipavský to refer the proposal to the Defence Committee. Initiating vote now. Whoever is for the commandment to the defense committee, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 67, 177 Members registered, for 66, against 71, abstained from 40. The motion for a commandment to the Defence Committee has been rejected. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal was only directed to the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. That concludes the discussion for the moment. Then I'd read the apology. I've got... I'll read an apology, and you'll be given the floor with priority rights, Mr. Chairman. So between 17 and 18 o'clock due to the hearing, Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologizes. And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Ivan Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, it may be late to cry over spilled milk, but I find it ironic, if not the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, that therefore the House will not send this legislation, which concerns the public service, to a committee which is primarily responsible for the public service and the civil service. So I just wanted to wonder where the logic of committee discussions is. I guess I was wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u43	Thank you. And Mr President Bartošek with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u44	Mr Bartoš through Mr President, don't be surprised, there is nothing to be surprised about. Here it is necessary to change the service law in the shortest possible time to serve as a whip to throw away uncomfortable officials. Those who don't fit the YES movement into the store. No wonder! It will be occupied by friendly persons of the ANO movement, the Communists and the SPD, and maybe there will be something left over for the Social Democrats. Don't look for logic here! This is about taking power.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u45	Thank you. And you have applied to the facts, Mr President, but with priority rights. I'm really erasing, and Mr. Chairman Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mrs. and gentlemen, hello. I'm performing for the first time today, and it's going to be very short. I was just waiting for it to touch the KSČM to respond to the debate or to the speech that is going on here, because the debate is already passé. I just have to say that the Civil Service Act, as it was in its present form, did not support KSČM for many different reasons, especially because what it promised so-called. the depoliticisation of the state administration, the better functioning of the etc., has not been fulfilled. And the adjustment that's coming seems not entirely fantastic, but better than what's been done so far. So we're not saying that we're going to be completely 100% supportive, but what I want to say to all of you here is that in the service of the Communists, we have a negligible, almost zero percentage of people, so we really don't have any purpose here. I would ask you from your comments on the voting machine etc. This time the Communists were left out! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u47	Thank you. And President Michálek claimed priority rights and then President Stanjura. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u48	It's funny when the Prime Minister is a former member of the PC. But I think what happened here is really contempt for the parliamentary rules that the bill is not assigned to the committee in which it belongs. Because what other matter should the Public Administration Committee deal with than the status of officials and their rights and obligations? I think that's pretty irresponsible. I am a member of the Committee of Constitutional Law, which was appointed by the Guarantee Committee. We are dealing with justice, the Code of Criminal Procedure and other similar matters, and this matter belongs to the Public Administration Committee and I do not understand why the YES movement has actually bypassed this committee. I remember very well when it was necessary to sabotage the law on the register of contracts, so including the votes YES was assigned to five different committees. And now that you're voting on the Officials Act, you're only ordering him to one committee that has nothing to do with it, and you're not ordering him into the committee where it belongs. You're taking advantage of your voting majority - with the communists, with the SPD. I'm happy for you, but it's a thing that we fundamentally do not support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u49	Let's take this one step at a time. President Stanjura and President Kováčik subsequently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u50	I want to respond to the performance of the KSČM chairman Pavel Kováčik. Yes, the Communists did not vote for the law, that is true, that is to be recalled, but they are an ally of the YES movement in this parliamentary term and as if both sides are ashamed of it. [[Nesroz.]] So what do you still have? I mean, like the President of the House said yesterday, when we voted, if the sixth point on Tuesday afternoon is one or the other, we voted with the ODS! So what do you still have? The fact that you vote together in important matters, we respect it, I just don't understand why you're ashamed. Communists say they're short-staffed in the state administration. I say, if that's true, that's good, I don't mind at all. [[Fun on the right.]] But - and I am based on public resources - the Communists are asking for positions in the state administration, in the supervisory councils of state enterprises. They call it a tolerance patent. I don't vědět, Ištvan, the Attorney General is still silent. When it suits him, he can do it, and when he doesn't like it and someone says it, I want it even in writing, the trades for tolerance or support, nothing, but it's an independent body, like we'd be surprised at. But why are you playing that comedy? I really don't understand that the government doesn't have most of it on paper when it's actually six months old! In every important coalition vote, it works, which is normal, which is right, it's not weird. What's not normal and what's not right is that you're ashamed of it. You're just one group today - communists, YES and SPD. In every important vote, you vote together. If not, show me an important vote when you did not vote together, whether you occupied the House functions etc. It's true, as Chairman Faltýnek says, I have the list, everyone saw him make those committees. That's all true, but how did he do it? First he met the requirements of the KSČM, then the requirements of the SPD and then it got to the rest of us. I respect all this, I'm not gonna complain about the state secretary of health, so why are you dragging it out so much? [[Towards the parliamentary ranks of the ANO 2011 movement:]] Madam, don't yell at me. Don't yell at me! When I say I'm not complaining, I'm not complaining -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u51	Please, Mr President, address the other Members through me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u52	And how do you know who I was calling, Mr. Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u53	I saw it from your point of view, and the lady nodded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u54	Let us appreciate Mr. Vice-President Tomio Okamura - I do not know by what means. I'm back to him, and he could see it from my point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u55	Prime Minister... Prime Minister! I don't want to go into controversy, however -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u56	Vice-President, I am speaking -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u57	Yes, Mr President, but the House's Rules of Procedure do not specify whether to address Members on behalf of themselves, just that you are not to address them directly, so we can interpret them as we please. But please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u58	So, honourable Members, through Vice-President Okamura's interpretation - it is absurd, but when someone knows how to look at him when I have my back, what I can't address even this way, they really won't give me. I'm not complaining. I'm just surprised. Don't be shy, they're your partners! Yesterday, today, and I dare say tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the way it was last meeting. You play comedy in front of the public: we don't want to rule with the communists. Yes, you do! You just don't want to know. And we're here to say, "There's already a majority." I'm not going to talk to the Social Democrats because they're probably not blind, at least those who are present. There aren't many, that's true. But that's what bothers me. You complain that we keep saying "not the trust," but you have most of it. We can see it. You're just ashamed of her. So don't be shy, tell all the voters from center to right: these are our partners, now we're on the left. Why not, it's your choice, just let Chairman Kováčik here tell us, but we had nothing to do with it. [[doesn't say]] You do! You're a semi-government party, and the government that's coming will at least be semi-communist!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u59	Thank you and I have two applications with priority rights - President Kováčik and then President Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, allow me to appreciate the sense of humor of my colleague Stanjura, who has once again shown very well, but I must say and remind the public and colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies that there have been other governments than those which are now coming. One of the points of our meeting, this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is called unpaid businesses from the ODS, ODA and KDU-ČSL, I think it was called something, so that you also had something behind you, as well as those other governments, colleagues, at least from the ODS, or your predecessors, to say yes again, we were not there, it was our godfathers before us! [[Speech of disapproval of Members of the ODS.]] And I will ask Mr President to arrange for no one to shout at me here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u61	Yes. Please don't shout! [[Laughter.]] No. Please, if anyone has something to say to each other, we're talking on the microphone! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u62	We are not ashamed to acknowledge, as we have always recognised, the results of the elections. We are not ashamed that after all these years, and I suspect it will be 28 years from the government of the new regime, we come up with an alternative solution and some of our proposals are accepted. We're also not ashamed that we don't want to be the beating boy, third in the back, or figure it out who you want, however you want, but that we want control powers too, control roles. And by the way, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, exactly what you mentioned, this is not exactly what the Service Act is about. And the last mention, I don't want to drag it out for long. Madam and gentlemen, I remember very well when we were behind those past governments, not past, past, that is, after 1989, as communists, but many other social democrats, for example, demanded, proposed the commandments of various things to various committees, and we were always referred to the Rules of Procedure that the committee could take the point, the subject, the press to discuss. This item has not changed since then. If you really want to discuss the subject, you can include it in any committee on the agenda and then familiarize the Chamber of Deputies with the resolution of your committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u63	Thank you. And now with priority rights, President Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u64	Thank you for the floor. Yes, my colleague Kováčik is right. It is a paragraph, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, President Michálek, paragraph 91. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u65	Thank you. And with priority rights, yes, please, President Kalousek, which so far is the last person I have registered here with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u66	Thank you for the floor. Only my two previous speakers, both President Kováčik and President Faltýnek. Gentlemen, with all due respect, your argument is absurd. I would still understand this argument in case it was assigned to the Public Administration Committee and one of us demanded that another committee do it, and you would say no, one is enough. The one to whom it belongs and all the others can discuss it with initiative. But if you leave out the committee to which it belongs - it belongs to it by guarantee - and you say, so let the committee to which it belongs by guarantee in terms of the powers of the parliamentary body take initiative, so you express the deepest contempt for the parliamentary procedures that we are used to. Just like we're supposed to expect the next time the government brings in some tax law, it's going to be submitted to the petition committee? And when the law on breeding and sowing comes, will it be brought to the committee of constitutional law? Why are you making the House, the Constitutional Institution, such a tearing calendar? Why are you mocking us in front of the entire public about how you behave?!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u67	And President Faltýnek still. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u68	A brief response to my colleague Kalousek. If President Kalousek goes to the organizational committee, he knows that the organizational committee has set it up, please, nicely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u69	Well, thank you. And again, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u70	If I'm not mistaken, I have one absence on the Organizing Committee. However, even in this organizational committee, the decision-making is completely meaningless. I'll remind you of the Church Act. Sorry, about the churches... The law on the taxation of church restitution, which is also the subject of your government hand. This clearly as a guarantee committee belongs to the Committee of Constitutional Law. On the Organizing Committee, we tried in vain to do so. Just the majority voting machine of the government coalition, SPD, YES and KSČM works not only on plenary, but also on the organizing committee as well. I respect that. That's just how the election went down. But I am merely calling for you not to ridicule the House in front of the public in your joint decision-making and therefore majority decision-making. Because the House, which will not assign, will not assign the press to the public service of the Public Administration Committee, is simply ridiculous! That's your decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u71	Yes. Thank you. With priority rights, the President and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u72	Thank you, Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen. Well, I could say something about mocking the House, not at the expense of my colleague, Miroslav Kalousek. You know, it often seems to me, and let me say that the derision is more due to the way we treat some of the laws. The Civil Service Act was adopted in 2002. And because some of them didn't fit, especially after 2006, Mirek Topolánek, Miroslav Kalousek and others, its effectiveness was simply postponed. And the fact that the government of Bohuslav Sobotka blackmailed the ODS and TOP 09 in 2013 and 2014, so that we then discussed the law here in this way and started to apply the new law, which is much worse than the one that was adopted in 2002, much worse, and the 2002 Civil Service Act was the basis for the EU referendum negotiations because it had to have those parameters. And this law has proved completely dysfunctional, which undermines professionalism, which allows civil servants to mock even elected authorities. And we're supposed to admit it? Why? This is not a mockery of the Chamber of Deputies. It's ridiculous what you guys have done to each other in the past! Now, you've got to realize it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u73	Thank you. And now President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u74	Sorry, for the last time, just because every step of the way hurts me. And sometimes there's this discussion about how the mute gives the deaf a good morning. I am merely talking here about the fact that the House should respect its institutions, because committees are the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies, and that, therefore, the authorities, where it has also sent its experts on the issue, should have elementary respect. That's all I was talking about. That is, it is ridiculous that the Public Administration Committee did not receive this proposal. I think it's a mistake. President Filip will answer that this is our fault, because we postponed the effectiveness of the Civil Service Act back in 2006. That doesn't make any sense. There is no connection, as the Prime Minister would say. However, I will answer you, President Filip, through Mr President. Yes, I, from today's point of view, for after the battle is every general, from today's point of view, consider it a mistake that we did not adopt a quality law on civil service much earlier, even though we could have done so. I don't mean the 2002 law. I didn't like him. I didn't agree to that. But it is certainly our fault that we have not been more proactive, that we have not adopted the quality law before. And is that really a reason for you to disrespect the authorities of the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies as such now? Again, there's no connection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-020-040.u75	Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. If no one else claims priority rights, I would finally end this point. I thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur and we will move on to the next point:
