ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u1	104. Oral inhalation Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The list of Members according to the winning order has been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I'm just pointing out that there are four of the Prime Minister's interpelations, so it's going to be in a relatively short period of time. I therefore now give the floor to Mr Jakub Michálek, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u2	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Allow me to say hello and wish you a pleasant afternoon. My intervention today concerns the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, and it is specifically called How much will Agrofert lose when the European Union puts up with subsidies. The point is that this is currently a very important issue at European Union level, as agricultural policy should look like, and the Czech Republic should represent its national interests there. I think that it is not entirely our national interest to go against a large part of the European Union, which demands that agricultural subsidies go primarily to small farmers and that they do not receive large agro complexes. On the contrary, I find it unacceptable for the Prime Minister to abuse his position and lobby there through his post, so that the subsidies do not fall. So I would like to ask what the financial impact on Agrofert holding would be if this were to be the way the company is being talked about at European Union level, and I think it is completely inappropriate for Andrej Babiš to pursue his business and his interest in this way. I think it should be because we are talking about many years and many more, the future of the Czech Republic, the next programming period, etc., so there should be a broad political consensus that we really want to subsidize these large agricultural complexes, and not to make it a tight majority, which the ANO movement has with several other parties, for which it is particularly advantageous in the short term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister is excused, so he will reply in writing to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who was drawn in second place, will speak with the next interview. I do not see Mr Vít Kaňkovský - at least in his place - so this interpellation is failing, and I will therefore ask another to speak to Mr Pavel Jelínek, who will speak on the question of specifying the government's programming statement - high-speed Internet. Ambassador, two minutes is yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. The government's programming statement states, among other things, that you want the availability of high-speed internet everywhere. Surely none of us question the need to provide high-speed internet for every household and every office. This is a necessary condition for the development of our country's economy. On Tuesday, the tabloid press announced your Monday announcement that the citizen's portal will offer 37 services so far. It sounds fantastic, in the area of civil service it is a big step after a long time since the start of Czech Point. Anyway, who'd believe the tabloids? Since I have been in IT for more than 30 years, and over these years I have not noticed much support from the state in this area, and in the light of the inability to prepare a viable grant title for high-speed Internet already in two governments, I would like to ask you to clarify this part of the programming statement, detailing the availability of high-speed Internet, the concrete steps that the government wants to take for the availability of high-speed Internet. In the last government's programming statement, it was also said that after the first hundred days, you would create a government action plan with clear deadlines. I would like it to be possible for this plan to be published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As I have already said, the Prime Minister is excused and will answer you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Jakub Michálek will speak with the last interview on the issue of "why are you blocking anti-corruption laws." Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u6	I'd like to ask the Prime Minister why he's blocking anti-corruption laws because he once acted with the idea that everything should be transparent and he's the one who eliminates the corruption. He even called the CSSD that it was a corrupt side, quite recently. And now that he has the opportunity, when he has quite a lot of Members in the Chamber of Deputies, he has the opportunity to vote against the anti-corruption laws, so he's basically blocking them, whether we are talking about the nomination law, which he was supposed to introduce a transparent occupation of supervisory boards, so that they do not serve as political traders, this proposal was rejected yesterday by the votes YES, or whether we are talking about the register of contracts of ČEZ, which Mr Babiš verbally supports, but when it comes to the vote, he refuses to include him on the agenda, or whether we are talking about the accumulation of rewards for more functions of multi-functionals, which a number of people from the ANO movement even signed, and yesterday turned and voted in a different way. So Mr. Babiš claims to the media that he is terribly upset with the accumulation of functions and how their captains will not sit in the Chamber of Deputies, but in the result of the deed he has escaped. So I want to know exactly what Mr Babiš has done in the area of combating corruption and why he is blocking the anti-corruption laws that are put here in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u7	Thank you. As I have already said, the Prime Minister is excused and will answer you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I warn the Chamber of Deputies that all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted. Now there will be oral intervention on other members of the government, but first I will read again a number of apologies. From 14.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Jana Levová apologizes, from 15.00 to the end of the day, for working reasons, apologies to Mr Jan Volný, from 16.00 today for medical reasons, a doctor's check, apologies to Mr Marian Bojko, between 15.30 and 18.00 because of the hearing, Mr Ivan Bartoš apologizes. So we will now proceed to an interview with the members of the government. I call on Mr Jan zahradník to present an interview at the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior responsible for the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Jan Hamáček, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. It's about handling employee card applications. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Jakub Michálek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I've been assigned a lottery ticket to be the first to turn to you with an interview in your new position. Allow me to wish you the best of luck and strength in its successful fulfillment. Now, to the sum of my interpellation. I was approached by businessmen in tourism in southern Bohemia, where there is a shortage of labour. On the contrary, in Serbia, where the forces are trying to find them, there is relatively significant unemployment, reaching almost 15 percent. The Ministry is newly addressing the crossing of workers from foreign countries outside the EU through the form of employee cards. So they asked to issue an employee card and here they got into a certain term collision. In the middle of May, they submitted two applications for a deadline to accept an application for an employee card. The deadline for a visit to the embassy to submit the application was set at 13 August this year, or 82 days. It should be added that the processing of the application takes 60 days according to the administrative order, and if there is any other particular difficulty, then it can take 90 days, which is almost half a year. I ask you, Minister, how your ministry, here I mean the Ministry of the Interior, intends to compete and resolve this unacceptable situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u9	Thank you. Minister Jan Hamáček has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u10	Thank you. Dear Member, about your interpellation involving Serbia. The situation in Serbia, you described it correctly, there is high unemployment and there is an interest in employment in the Czech Republic, but the interest is more pronounced only this year. Last year, the problem you described wasn't. The waiting period at ZÚ Belgrade was around thirty days, but this year there was a sharp increase in applications for work cards, or employee cards, due to the extension of waiting periods at the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany, which means that this embassy is waiting for up to half a year, increased interest in requests for cards with us, so that during the months that have actually passed our ZU has exhausted as many cards as it has issued for the whole last year. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, respectively. The Czech Republic, because this is the decision of the Czech Republic, responded and included Serbia in projects of so-called targeted labour migration. These are projects that identify countries where, first, the Czech Republic is interested in workers coming from them, and at the same time there is a high excess of those applications. There are Ukraine, there are two projects, there are Mongolia, there are the Philippines and newly because of the situation you described, there are Serbia. Serbia was included in this project 22. 6. with effect from 1. 9. providing that 2 000 jobs have been allocated to Serbia. I am convinced that once the special regime for Serbia enters into force, the problem will be resolved. From the position of the Czech Republic we know about the problem and solve it. I think from 1. 9. The situation will improve significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u11	Thank you. Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would put my supplementary question in a more general context. It may be a bit sensitive, but it is to some extent a public secret that, in some countries, the creation of a virtual front for the release of these documents or even real ones, they hold in their hands some parallel structure, or maybe the local mafia, and applicants have to pay their protagonists first, and then they can only stand in that queue really or somewhere on some Internet server. Is the D.O.D. in any way prepared to deal with this? You know that, and you're interested in dealing with it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u13	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u14	Thank you. Of course, these suspicions are. I would like it not to be so, but if we issue these documents at our offices abroad, I guess we can't rule out such suspicions. I have already spoken to the head of the Ministry of Interior and asked them to consider the possibility and prepare a proposal as to whether it would not be possible at least if the applicants were from countries with visa-free relations with the Czech Republic for a limited period of time, so whether it would be possible for them to apply for these documents here in the Czech Republic. I think that, in particular, in relation to Ukraine, because I think that's where you were headed by your statement, that's where you solved the problem. So I've commissioned the Ministry's management to at least process an analysis of whether some of these documents could be issued directly in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u15	Thank you. And now we're going to continue. Mr. Jakub Michálek was drawn second. Interpelation has Klára Dostálová on the issue of "how the building process has accelerated for you" on behalf of the Minister for Regional Development. Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the Minister for coming, and I appreciate that very much, and I wish her well-being in a difficult position. And now I would return to the subject with which I have been speaking here for eight months and intersecting the Minister and it concerns a slow building procedure that is very bad for all citizens because of the fact that real estate is getting expensive, apartments are getting expensive. I was elected the capital of Prague, and there the problem is one of the most pressing. The person who lives here must earn 15 years to buy an apartment in Prague. And he wouldn't be allowed to eat and spend it on anything else, and he would have to really put it all in that apartment. This coefficient is by far the highest in Central Europe. Perhaps it is comparable in Europe only with London and such destinations that are completely out of line. So I'm interested in how specifically the Minister did when it comes to speeding up the construction process, because he's been in office for eight months now, so it would be good to show some results. And I wanted to invite the Minister to a subcommittee for housing meeting 12. 6. (?) at 15 o'clock on my initiative, and it will address the question of the possibility of accelerating the building process, digitising the building procedure. I would very much like the Minister to come to this subcommittee with what can be done in particular so that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, can provide her with the maximum synergies she needs to speed up the building process. Because this is a matter which certainly bothers not only the Pirates Club but also all the other clubs in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u17	Thank you. Minister Klára Dostálová has the floor now. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I will take it from the back. Of course, I accept the invitation, and I am very happy to come, because we actually have one of the working groups for digitization in the framework of the recodification of building law, and for all these things, that is, I will be very happy to discuss it with the committee, because of course we are also dealing with it within the Ministry for Local Development, whether we are actually preparing it as a complete overall recodification of building law in the Czech Republic, or going the way of partial modifications, so that we can actually record some faster changes, which, especially in the area of digitalisation, could be accelerated. If I may, of course, I would very much like to do it here, and I repeat it again in all press or media statements, so I would also like to say here that we must free ourselves from this mantra that it is all the fault of the law of construction. The construction law from the whole construction process is only 20 percent. Building law is a procedural standard, which, of course, regulates some of these things against individual authorities. What is the problem, and we all know this, is the so-called concerned authorities, which means the positions that the builder must obtain before he even comes to the construction office with the project. And that's the issue of recodification of building law. It's 81 laws, none of which are in MMR. This means, of course, that we are already preparing for the government a general regulation of the legislative process so that we can actually prevent some of those things that we believe are unnecessarily bureaucratic or unnecessarily administratively expensive or are already surviving. I've said it once before on the Public Administration Committee that we, for example, are dealing with the Nineteen Hundred Something Law on Steam Machines. Of course, today's steam engines, and there are, of course, some limits on the constructions, so that's exactly where the legislation needs to be cleaned. Otherwise, the Ministry of Regional Development came with an amendment to the Construction Act last year, which of course allows for the acceleration of buildings, which means one authorisation procedure, which means that territorial proceedings and construction proceedings can be combined there. At the same time, it also affected the so-called special construction offices. It must be said that we have 752 construction offices in the Czech Republic, of course it is also causing problems, because each construction office, by the fact that it is carried over, so the Ministry of Regional Development is, of course, methodically leading, but does not manage, it is indeed in the delegated scope, which means that it is in the gesture of the individual municipal authorities. But, of course, we're trying to train these people. And to a specific question, a specific answer, so what has succeeded. We, of course, have been effective since 1. 1. 2018, in my line of work and, of course, in January of this year, a number of methodologies, opinions, examples, recommendations, outlines relating to the current, actually amended construction law had to be prepared, that is, when it is issued, how it takes care of, what documents are needed, what its content is, who evaluates the intentions, set out more detailed conditions and so on. I don't think it's time for me to read all the methodologies here, so I just want to say that there are 42 methodological procedures in relation to this, and then, of course, in addition to the construction law, we have methodologies such as family houses, common guidelines for the cooperation of the authorities, owners' consents, methodology interpretation of the Ministry of the Environment, and so on, and so on. We need to update all these things. And what I think is very important is the education of people at construction offices. This means that we have trained 4 194 officials from December to now and, of course, we are trying to continue these matters mainly in large cities. We conducted a questionnaire inquiry into binding opinions, where I began to record a major problem from the authorities of territorial planning, typically a media-known example in Černošice, so we introduced a questionnaire survey on what is going on, what is the problem in application practice. And in cooperation with Mr Kolovratník, we have prepared an amendment as the Ministry so that it is quite clear where binding positions are, and this has been added to the law, they do not issue. By the fact that it is a whole range of small buildings, that is, a binding position will not be in the greenhouses, garages, pools, fences, just the whole plaza of things will not be given binding opinions, so of course they will loosen their hands to the individual officials, they will lose their jobs and, of course, they will be able to devote themselves to major constructions. Otherwise, thank you so much for wishing. I also look forward to working together, and I look forward to talking about housing issues, because one thing is building procedures and the other is the readiness of individual cities for investment. If they do not have defined areas in the zoning plan, land, then they cannot carry out construction. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u19	I thank and ask the honourable Member if he is interested. He's interested in a follow-up question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u20	I agree, of course, that this is not only a matter of building proceedings, because the construction law also regulates the planning of the area that precedes it and which is often very problematic, especially in the case of the capital city of Prague. My question focused on how the construction process accelerated for you, so I have to say that I expected you to submit some kind of analysis, what was the average time of the construction process in the Czech Republic, that you have some data to evaluate it, and how did you project the steps you took to speed up the construction process? Whether it has been shortened or whether the construction proceedings are being extended. I must say that the concrete steps, such as setting up a working group, methodology, questionnaires and so on, are nice, but they are not results. It would be good if we had some concrete results that would actually lead to acceleration. I wanted to ask you in the supplementary question, do you support the idea of the so-called one stop shop, one site of the building office, and, if necessary, when you will submit a bill to reflect it into the construction law. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u21	I'm just gonna ask the Members to keep their time. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u22	Thank you. It's hard to keep time because it's a complicated issue, but I'll try fast. Yes. The questionnaires led us to prepare the amendment in order to speed up the procedures. It is not possible to evaluate during the period of action from January until now whether there has been an acceleration or no acceleration, there is a need for a longer period of time to evaluate it. And I strongly support one stop, which means one office, one stamp, one permit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u23	Thank you. We will now proceed to the third in order, Mrs Karla Maříková is drawn and will interpel Mrs. Minister Alena Schillerová on the matter of repairing the pool at the Thermal Hotel. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, the Karlovy Vary Thermal Hotel will host the 53rd annual film festival on Friday. But his guests will be shocked and the city will be disgraced. The area dominated by the swimming pool and cafe is decaying and this condition is inconvenient for a long time. Last year, for example, the great graffiti caused outrage, which appeared right inside the released pool. [[15.00 hours]] The ideas about the future of the entire Thermal Hotel complex have changed in the Ministry of Finance over the years. In 2015, the then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and the current Prime Minister let himself be heard that the pool area with a very lucrative land would offer the best Arabic sheik to sell, causing a huge uproar. But only one interested party volunteered, so the sale was canceled mainly thanks to the public protests. In addition, it initiated the entire complex of Hotel Thermal to become a cultural monument. However, this was rejected by the Ministry of Culture. Subsequently, about 400 million of the hotel's renovations began to be considered. However, the pool was not repaired. There has now been information in the press that the state is planning to transform the pool into a spa and wellness centre. How is it possible that vandals entered the facility when it is guarded by security services? And who will be responsible for such misconduct? Is the above-mentioned plan officially approved by the Ministry and also approved by Marie Kordovská, the granddaughter of Machoninův's husbands, authors of the form of Thermal? When will the reconstruction start, how much will it cost and what changes will the pool complex expect exactly? The management of THERMAL-F has reported that its bosses are dealing with potential applicants for the operation of the complex. Who's the interested party?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u25	Thank you. And Madam Secretary, please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. And allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on this interpellation. Indeed, I am not indifferent to the situation surrounding the Thermal Hotel and the pool, and I can assure you, Madame, one of my priorities. At present, the situation is around that stage that the management of THERMAL prepared an investment program for the reconstruction of the building in the total amount of CZK 580 million. This investment plan was sent to the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the company's statutes for approval of shareholders. The reconstruction should start this year, completed in 2021. The reconstruction process is planned in such a way that in no way, and this will be an absolutely essential condition, it does not jeopardise the smooth course of the preparation and organisation of the international film festival. Part of this reconstruction is planned to make the pool complex available to the public. Here too, the start of the reconstruction is planned for the end of this year. The scope will include reconstruction of the pool area and adjacent buildings. At the same time it is considered the use of spa water, possible extension of the experience wellness and sauna world. I stress that this is a stage of reflection, however, the reconstruction of the pool itself will start this year. As far as financing is concerned, you are also interested in this, so the financing of the aforementioned investor programme to the total amount of CZK 580 million is expected by the board of directors to pay from the following sources: Firstly, the own sources of funding are represented by CZK 300 million. Foreign resources of 122 million and 148, including VAT, are secured from the grant received by Thermal this year under the Operational Programme Environment 2014 under the name of the project "Reduction of Energy Performance of Thermal Hotel." The remaining part of the financing is envisaged by drawing up a loan granted by a third party, which will be submitted for approval to a single shareholder under the statutes. There are currently negotiations on the granting of credit. I can assure you that the situation that took place in the media, which actually concerns the pool and that vandals somehow invaded it, did not leave me calm. I got information from the management of the Thermal Hotel, which I was not satisfied with, because then the management interpreted it a little differently. I'm - I've already ordered it for a long time, it's not a reaction to this interpelation today, but of course I'm not going to convince you of that, 17. 7. I'm going to visit Thermal personally, meet with the company management, and I want to talk about specific steps. It's definitely not on the table to sell the hotel, no way. And if you asked about the possibility of renting, that's what we're thinking. They're certainly not at a stage for me to share anything more closely. If we reach a specific stage, I will, of course, inform the public. For me, one thing is essential: to control the investment of the state, which today will be worth almost half a billion. The second thing is to start reconstruction as quickly as possible and see mainly at its end including the pool hall. And actually don't jeopardize the international film festival. These are three principles for me to follow, and I will proceed accordingly. Of course, I'll keep you posted on all the steps.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u27	Thank you. Now, I'm just gonna read two apologies, 'cause I'm told here's information from the Ministry of Education that we've lost a little bit of the Minister's apology, so I'm gonna fix it real quick. So Minister Robert Plaga is apologizing for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for urgent work matters. And I will take the second, i.e. between 15 and 19 o'clock, for reasons of negotiation, apologies to Mrs Jana Krutáková. So, Madame, do you have an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u28	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, why has the Ministry of Culture not included the hotel in the list of Czech cultural monuments, which would make it subject to stricter rules and supervision of monuments in the case of construction interventions or repairs? And didn't your view neglect the obligation of the Thermal Hotel's Board of Directors, which has long neglected its legal obligations by allowing the object to be lost in the long term, and the current state threatens the lives and health of those who are moving there and can also be a very significant problem in the candidacy of Karlovy Vary on the UNESCO World Heritage List? Or UNESCO's heritage, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u29	Then please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u30	Well, I certainly can't speak for the Ministry of Culture, Madame. It's not even in my jurisdiction, nor do I know the rules that actually lead to this monument being included. So I'm going to refer you to the Ministry of Culture with your question. And whether or not they've been threatened or violated, as you said, by duty, I'm the one who's gonna find out everything at the scene. I'm gonna ask about the economic results, I'm gonna ask about compliance. I'll take a look at it myself. And trust me, it's one of my big priorities. And I hope that in some time soon, soon, I will be able to inform about specific shifts in the reconstruction of both the hotel and the swimming pool.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u31	Well, thank you. I therefore call on Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík to interpel Alena Schillerová, Minister of Finance, on tax simplification. And Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I have noticed that, in fact, the tax package that was about to fall out of the tariff changes and any changes in the system, while the government has announced several times before that it is planning to abolish the supergross wage and that it will seek to simplify the system. I wonder if you are taking steps that will, for example, lead to changes in the supergross wage, or, for example, to unite social security contributions paid by the employer and paid by the employer, but from the employee's gross wage. Likewise, if you are working to simplify taxes in terms of simplifying the payment of taxes and other levies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u33	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. MP, yes, you're right, the Ministry of Finance's plan fell out of the tax package to cancel the so-called super gross wage for a very simple and only reason. We included it because it was actually in line with the government statement, we included it in the tax package of 2019, but de facto, because we did not have a government and we do not have it now, the government with confidence, we were in remission, we could not get the necessary support for this intention of the Ministry of Finance. We actually decided to postpone it in time, which means not cancel definitively, but postpone it in time. In the end, when the draft coalition treaty is presented, we also have it in the proposal. And to include it, then, to move this intention in time. [[15.10 hours]] So there's no way we're retreating from this plan. This represents a correct and systemic step, because de facto supergross wage is a project that is nowhere else in the EU or within EU countries. It's absolutely something - I always call it a legal scam that was once done on the taxpayers, because basically 15% tax was introduced, but de facto by counting the tax on the basis of the premium paid by the employer, so it's not 15 percent, but it's much more. So at this point, we think - we wanted to clear this problem, we wanted it to be really calculated from gross wages, but it would mean that we would have to increase the 15% tax here. It's 21 percent actually today and some small change, so we wanted to cut it down by 20.4, no matter what I'm talking about, we wanted to cut it down to 19 percent, which is one percentage point, so that's 5 percent per tax. De facto it would be quite a lot of money from the state budget, it would present about some 27 and net of VAT maybe 23, 24 billion, which would end up in taxpayers' pockets. We've been through the interdepartment. So we had a very detailed discussion, because of course we wanted to replace it with self-employed people. We were going to say that three quarters of the premiums paid can be spent on expenses, so that we can actually not only help the employees, but also the self-employed. I have a whole series of examples calculated that basically everyone in this system is going to make money. We wanted to cancel the seven percent solidarity premium, and eventually it was all in the interreort, so you can find it, that is, that is, when you have income to four times the average wage, so you still pay without social and health 7 percent tax, so we wanted to cancel it and there it goes to about 23.7 percent, so we wanted to cut to 23, because there we wanted to reduce the tax at least for those high-income groups, because overall it was some 23, 24 billion. Of course, it would also be a blackout in the incomes of municipalities, all of which we have taken into account. But at this point, precisely because we did not have sufficient political support, so we retreated, but it is included in the draft coalition treaty, which was actually in tune between the ANO movement and the Social Democratic Party. You're asking me if we're working on tax simplification. That's an absolutely fundamental task for me. My absolute priority in this area is the online financial office. The project team has been working there since I was Minister of Finance, meeting regularly under the principles of project management, and it has been registered. I took part in the management committee myself, about three weeks ago, where I had the results presented. Basically, there have been an analysis of the ways in which technically, she legislation is a lot about technology, the legislative regulation there will be minimal to the online financial office, about IT. And, of course, I don't want to link it to the new IT system of Financial Administration, because it will definitely prepare and compete for that for a longer period of time, so I want the first results of the online financial office to be within about two years. In the autumn, I would like to present at a press conference some specific timetable for how this will be done. So, at the moment, one of the alternatives to the technical solution has been chosen on the Steering Committee, and that will be the one to work on. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] At the moment, costs are also calculated, and it is simply an absolute priority for me and, of course, related legislation, which I do not have time for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u35	Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? Yes, Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u36	Thank you for the floor. I'd just add that, let's just say, rethinking that super gross wage could be a lot of approaches. And I find it a little unhappy the procedure that the Ministry has chosen in a relationship that only changes the method of calculation, but the system remains preserved, where the employer takes social security in two different ways, and when people still don't see very well how the entrepreneur needs to be burdened with the cost of their work. I think you should also focus on this aspect of the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u37	Ma'am, please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u38	Sure, I'm not saying there's no more ways, there's always more ways, and I'm open to debate. Eventually, your chairman is working with us on the financial statements, we have him in a working group, so if you want to be involved, I welcome you to the team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u39	Thank you. Now I'm gonna load up the apologies. Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologizes from 15.00 to 19.00 on account of the hearing and Mr Radek Rozvoral for reasons of work from 16.00. I will therefore now request a speech from Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who will intersect Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová on the amendment of the Financial Administration procedure for real estate tax, and Mr Tomáš Martínek will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u40	Good afternoon. Madam Secretary, this year the landowners are very disillusioned by the change in the procedure of the financial authorities in determining real estate tax on land kept in the land register in the culture of other areas using barren land. While in previous years tax payers normally claimed exemption on the basis of the provisions of Section 4 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (k) Law No 338/1992 Coll., now the tax administrator rejects this possibility in most cases and points out that virtually every parcel of barren land is somehow economically usable and taxes these land at a rate of CZK 0,20 per square metre, which is, and that is to say, multiple the rate for agricultural land fully used or up to 20 times the rate for forest land. If the owner wishes to apply the tax exemption, it is obliged to demonstrate the unusability of the land without any procedure being established by the tax administrator as to how this is to be demonstrated. In addition, this tax is levied retroactively to owners up to three years ago. Perhaps it is no surprise that especially smaller owners are very upset about this practice and take it as an injustice. It should be said that these land are in the vast majority of cases no source of income for their owners, on the contrary, it is important for the entire society in terms of nature conservation, such as anti-erosion measures, etc. So, Minister, I would like to ask you if you are convinced that such a method of taxation was indeed the intention of the legislator and the rate of tax on land, where the possibility of economic use is more than questionable, is in a reasonable relation to the taxation of land used economically, see examples above. Secondly, whether you consider this taxation to be rational and fair, or whether it is merely an effort to prove, at all costs, success in tax collection. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u41	Thank you, and Minister Alena Schillerová has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly sum up the decisive facts relating to this question of questioning. I would just like to say that there has been no legislative change. I'll explain how the situation came about. According to the Real Estate Tax Act, the following land is exempt from this tax: land of draws, groves, winds and limits on arable land or permanent grassland. Furthermore, land of water protection zone I. grade and land of other areas which cannot be used in any way. With regard to land of other areas, such land may be eligible for exemption only on condition that such land or part of it cannot actually be used in any way, i.e. not that it is land which cannot be used economically in the sense of farming. In other words, not only the possibility of their agricultural use is excluded, but also the possibility of any other use, e.g. possible future construction of any construction, including communications for animal farming, recreational or sports use of land and other leisure activities. Therefore, for the purposes of this exemption, the fact that the land in question cannot be used for any activities is essential. The objective unusability of the land is from the beginning of the legislation introduced by the very substance of the land consisting exclusively of natural conditions, regardless of human activity or inaction, e.g. in the case of ravine, rocks, rubble, swamps, swamps and others. In this way, the land in question has been assessed from the point of view of the conditions for its exemption since 1. 1. 1993, when the Real Estate Tax Act came into force. However, the current practice shows that some taxpayers may mistakenly believe that, on the basis of the registered use of land, barren land in the land register is automatically entitled to exemption from land tax, i.e. they meet, or that compliance with the exemption requirement is not necessary. [[Nesroz.]] [[15.20 hours]] If only the fact that the land cannot be used in the sense of farming would suffice for the application of the right to exemption, the Real Estate Tax Act would explicitly mention the use of barren land, similar to that used by the cadastral decree. However, since 1993, the Real Estate Tax Act has not fully applied this concept on purpose, since the purpose of the exemption is to benefit from the tax from the initial tax of those parts of the land with landscape elements and also of anti-erosion significance. As regards the Financial Administration procedure, there has been no change in the interpretation of the above provision or change in the assessment of the tax administrator. The reason why he's resonating this problem now and is being controlled more often is because tax authorities have much wider control mechanisms than they had before. In other words, they didn't actually figure it out that it was wrongly taxed, but now because they actually have a greater connection with the cadastral, they have a greater possibility of awareness, better orientation of the taxpayers, etc., better orientation of the employees of the Financial Administration, so there are actually more frequent checks and more frequent confirmation of these obligations. In order to improve the orientation of taxpayers and the public on this issue, it was based on frequent questions for 1. 1. 2017 posted on the Financial Administration website for detailed information on the application of § 4 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (k) Real estate tax law. So let me reiterate that the procedure of the Financial Administration bodies has not changed, the legislation has not changed, and the Financial Administration bodies are obliged to follow the applicable and effective legislation. And since the real estate tax revenue is 100% income from the municipality's income, you certainly know that, in whose territory real estate is located, so of course it is in the interests of the municipalities to be properly checked and properly measured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u43	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. However, I would have a few glosses. Of course, I know, and the petents who visited me in my region, in the Vysočina Region, and the petents from the South Moravian Region followed me, that legislation had not changed. What has changed is the Financial Administration's approach. The fact that he was posted on the website by some methodical direction, I honestly don't know, but it didn't reach all citizens. That means, maybe here's my appeal for the Financial Administration to accentuate it even more in some way. And there are specific cases where the Financial Administration included the very landscape elements in real estate tax, which means that it did not accept real estate tax exemptions according to that provision. That is, that is why people view it as injustice. I think the Treasury should even better inform the public that the Financial Administration will control this more, that's okay. [[Time warning]] And the second thing is that she really should proceed fairly in this, which means that she should really take the landscape parts out of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u45	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u46	Thank you for your response. There were a few things that I would respond to gradually. The procedure is fully in the Financial Administration's direction. The Treasury doesn't interfere with these matters. We participate only in the form of control and consultation on the development of methodological guidelines to comply with the legislation for which the Ministry of Finance is responsible. However, at the meeting of the Ministry of Finance's management, I will ask the Managing Director of the Financial Administration to publish this methodological information again on 1 January 2017, I promise you that. And as for the fact that in some individual cases, in your opinion, it has been treated in violation of the law, this is the subject of a specific tax procedure. If the taxpayer feels or maybe has a legitimate finding that it has been done in violation of the law, then we have quite specific institutions in the tax system that tell him how to proceed. First it is an appeal, then it is an application, i.e. an ordinary appeal, or progresses further. So that's where I have to refer him to a specific tax proceeding with a particular tax administrator. In any case, the Ministry of Finance cannot intervene in this, but neither the General Financial Directorate, which may then become a degree in the context of the application of remedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u47	Thank you. Now I'm going to read one apology. Between 13:30 and 18:00, Mr Lukáš Černohorský apologizes for the hearing. And I will now request a speech from Mr Tomáš Martínek, who will intersect the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček on the cost calculation. And Mr Petr Pávek will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u48	Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the cost calculation of the possibility of creating a separate district of Turnov. On 16 May 2018, your predecessor, Lubomír Metnar, has surrounded the mayors and mayors of the municipalities of the local administrative district with an extended scope of Turnov on the issue of non-street state administrative breakdown within the scope of the substantive intention of the law, which is to be approved by the end of 2018. Two options for addressing the issue were offered to the representatives concerned. The first was the connection of the entire ORP Turnov to the district of Liberec and the second variant consisted in the division of the whole ORP Turnov based on current district jurisdiction. It was said that the variant of the establishment of the Turnov district, which expired in 1960, was unacceptable despite the fact that the majority of the municipalities of Turnovska had spoken for the variant. The Minister referred to conceptual and economic reasons. From an economic point of view, it points to the cost of the creation of the district of Jeseník in 1996, when requirements of approximately 450 million crowns were applied. It must be said that at that time there was a completely different legislation regarding districts and a large part of the offices already exist in Turnov. In addition, according to my information, Turnov is willing to participate in costs by providing the required real estate. On 11 June 2018, a meeting took place with the mayor of Turnovska. The representatives of the municipalities agreed that it is necessary to convince the Ministry that the creation of Turnov district is the only possible conceptual starting point of the situation. At its meeting on 19 June 2018, the Liberec Region Council supported the creation of a separate district of Turnov. Since the pirát want to meet the people of Turnov and because we consider the estimated economic costs based on the establishment of the Jeseník district as unspeakable and overvalued, I want to ask you, Minister, whether you have some relevant qualified estimate of the costs for the establishment of the Turnov district and whether the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic is willing to process a detailed calculation of the costs associated with the establishment of the Turnov district for the possibility of a qualified decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u49	I will now ask for the speech of Minister Jan Hamáček. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u50	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Member, when I joined the office yesterday, I said that my aim is to reduce bureaucracy in the public administration and also the demands for mayors. And I believe that this optics, too, need to assess the issue of territorial breakdown of the state. I know, of course, because I am from Mladá Boleslav, the requirements of the municipalities of Turnov to establish a new district of Turnov. I feel them and I respect them. However, I do not consider this step to be conceptual and certainly not economic. You spoke of 450 million crowns, which cost the establishment of the district of Jeseník in 1996, so it is probably necessary to recalculate the current prices and also in the light of the changes that have occurred, especially due to the abolition of the district offices and also, as I have already said, due to the price level change. In the current situation, if a new district is created, the legal obligation is to establish a social security administration from the main authorities of the state administration at the headquarters of the new district. In each district only those authorities whose arrangement is laid down by law at the district level must be legally established. The establishment of a new district does not automatically constitute a claim to the establishment of other institutions such as the court, the district court, the cadastral office, the district sanitary station and others. However, it can be expected that the pressure on the establishment of such institutions will, of course, come. Otherwise, the establishment of the district would have no practical sense for citizens. It is also probably necessary to look at transport accessibility. I feel that from Turnov to Liberec it is quite accessible both by car and by public transport. If the district were to be established, of course, it would be the cost of editing the various information systems, since the district figure is given in a large number of records. You'd need to be adjusted. Changes would affect other systems that work with the district breakdown without actually changing anything. An exchange of civil documents would be associated with this. That would affect 27,000 citizens. In this case, the costs on the part of the State are estimated between, say, CZK 2.7 million and CZK 5.4 million. On the citizens' side, if we're counting travel costs, we're talking about some 5.5 million. According to my information, a completely detailed calculation of how much it would cost to create Turnov County is not available to the Ministry of Interior. However, if you insist, we are willing and ready to process it, but it will also involve other central institutions that would have to identify the number of necessary employees or the necessary office space. For example, Jeseník or Rokycany, there are several dozen employees for the district social security administration or at the district court. [[15.30 hours]] And the last argument is, I already said that setting up a new district of Turnov wouldn't be completely conceptual, because that district would have 32,000 inhabitants and 250 km2 and would be the smallest district in the Czech Republic. The Jeseník you mentioned has 39 thousand inhabitants, but an area of 719 km2. So if we complied with this request, it would probably lead, apart from what I've described, to further demands for the establishment of new districts, and that would probably be difficult to face with objective arguments if one day we started the process of interfering with the district. Since the district authorities have been abolished as part of the reform of the public administration, it is gradually abandoned and is not considered as a basic breakdown of the territorial administration, so it is not very logical to support the changes from my point of view. However, if you insist on the calculation, I will, of course, enter it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u51	I thank the Minister and now I ask - yes, the Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u52	I thank the Minister for his comments. So I would be happy if the Ministry could process some calculation that would process specific costs in more detail, the mandatory ones, really, not what could be extra, but what it would really mean to the least possible extent, financially, so that we know, could really decide qualifiedly if we could support it, if that's logical. Because the accessibility of the residents who live there is really problematic, both into the Semil and into the Liberec. And that Turnov is really the center of everything for them, and it would really be good that if it wasn't economically absolutely unacceptable, but it would be economically acceptable to them as part of allowing these people to commute, etc. short distance, so if there's a possibility, of course, I'd be happy to see the Ministry process the calculation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u53	Thank you, and the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u54	As promised, I will, of course, enlist my coworkers to count it. I'm just pointing out that this, as I said, will require synergies from other ministries, so I can't now promise any time horizon where we'll process it, but we'll definitely start the work on it and you'll have the material at your disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u55	Mr Petr Pávek has the floor now, who will interpel in the case of Dol Frenštát to Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. And Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, honourable members of the government. I refer to you in the Dolu Frenštát case in Trojanovice, North Moravian Region, where we welcomed you last week as an economic committee. And this was one of the topics we were confronted with there. So I took on the role of the spokesperson for the Economic Committee because we want to continue to deal with this matter and we need to verify some of the information we received on the spot. And since the Ministry of Finance seems to be the owner of the Dol Frenštát through Prisko and subsequently OKD, it is actually the first one on the line regarding those questions. Local governments and associations would very much like to see the Frenštát mine disappear from the face of the earth. The structure, according to their information, swallows about 60 million a year for mere maintenance or preservation. It appears from their information that the building was never colonized and the owner dropped the building permit, so it's actually illegal tonight. It seems to me that there's been some kind of trial, some kind of trial. Those courts were right about this thing, but it went back to the first instance. I don't know much about that. I wonder if you have any information, I will intersect other ministers on this matter today, and if you have any information on how to deal with this Dol Frenštát. That means whether it's part of some broader state concept or whether it could be buried. Because according to local authorities' statements, they don't like the issue, they simply see the development of Beskydy in a completely different way. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u57	Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I will not stretch it out. In May of this year, as you rightly said, Prisko owned by the Ministry of Finance entered the OKD. This happened after the independent courts decided to reorganize the creditors on the basis of a clearly demonstrated will. And the OKD speech is clear and this is the gradual decline and closing of individual mines as described in the details in the reorganisation plan. We can't even do anything else because it was a condition of reorganisation. The OKD does not intend to go down this path, even in a situation where the profit for 2017 reached the order of units of billions. All we had to do was manage it with proper care. The problem of the Dolu Frenštát as well as the downturn and closure of other mines pays due attention to the Ministry of Finance. Believe me, it really is. Over the past two months, repeated discussions have taken place with representatives of local authorities, and the last of which was the meeting this week at the Ministry of Finance at the level of my deputy for these matters. According to my information, OKD does not really consider mining at the Frenštát mine. The current situation thus generates only costs, unfortunately. In the next step, therefore, the Ministry of Finance will initiate negotiations with the relevant ministries so that the situation can move further towards the final and effective closure not only of the Dolu Frenštát, but also of the other mines, where circumstances already allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u59	Thank you. And, Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? Yes, Mr. Petr Pávek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u60	I'm happy. I just want to thank you for the information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u61	Well, thank you, so there's no need to react. So now I call on Mrs Věra Kovářová to present an interview with Mrs Věra Kovářová to the duly excused Minister of Justice Taťána malý on the issue of conflict of interest. And he will prepare again for Minister Taťána malý, Mr. MP Zdeněk Ondráček. So please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u62	Madam Secretary, my interpelation concerns a conflict of interest. Not a conflict of interest in your case, I expect that she has asked and will ask many colleagues, but a conflict of interest in the case of municipal politicians. In a few days, the amendment to the conflict of interest law will take effect, which, from my point of view, could have been a little more helpful. And the fact that it wasn't, it goes above all to your predecessor, Minister Pelikán, who, in my opinion, was very rigorous. Madam Secretary, unlike your predecessor, you have been involved in community policy, so I expect you to have more understanding for the mayors, councillors and representatives. I therefore ask whether it is possible to agree that after two months of application of the new regulation, when the obvious problems that it brings will be met and its functioning evaluated. Thank you in advance for your kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u63	Thank you. As I have already said, the Minister is duly excused, so he will answer you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies within 30 days. Subsequently, I would like to call on Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to give an interview - but I do not see him here. So the interpellation is failing. So now we will pass smoothly and I call on Mrs Olga Richterová to give an interview on the financing of the transformation of constitutional facilities to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Petr Krčál. And Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am also very glad that the Minister is here, and thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you about the long-term issue that some regions have been dealing with since 2013, 2014, namely the financing of the transformation of constitutional facilities. In the two minutes I have, I cannot describe how important it is, if possible, not to be in large facilities, but to live with support in families, community services. But I suppose we can all imagine that this is particularly important in services for vulnerable children. [[15.40 hours]] Today we have two regions, Zlinsko and Pardubicko, which, with great effort and each for several million crowns, have prepared detailed plans for the transformation of their facilities, especially the care of endangered children. In practice, we can imagine that today we have several large houses, including 25, 30 children, and just because of that size, it is hard to get as close as possible to the family environment. At a time when these children would be scattered, as is the case in Pilsen, and we still have other good examples, in ordinary apartments, it would really benefit everyone and especially their start into the future life. That's why I'm asking if the budget for next year is somehow counted on making the long promised money for the initial investment in the scattered housing, which then returns many times in the system, will somehow be earmarked for those regions that want to volunteer for this. If that's an important system step that's on the MPSV's mind. Thank you so much for your attention and I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u65	Madam, thank you for your question. And now I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Petr Krčál to answer your question. Minister, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u66	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for this question, because this is my heart issue, which I may have dealt with on the edge and within the association for eight years. Unfortunately, it has several stages, and I will recapitulate you, of course, of the state in which the entire transformation of care for vulnerable children is in. In 2014, the regions were approached by a joint letter from ministers, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Education and the Ministry of Health to sign up for an open call, a programme in which they will be able to work and to sign up as part of the transformation of this process of services for residential facilities, which are set up by regions in particular. Unfortunately, only Pardubický and Zlinský Region participated in this challenge. Not the other regions. You may also know it a little better under the name "disbanding children's homes and nursing homes" because it also aroused a great deal of resentment. At the same time, it was planned that the system would be unified in accordance with the National Strategy for the Protection of Children's Rights. This would undoubtedly ensure improvement and better coordination of all components of the system. Unfortunately, the planned legislative changes from this period have not occurred, which has, of course, complicated the possibility of financing these transformation plans under the respective operational programmes. Unfortunately, the care system for vulnerable children is currently fragmented among several ministries - education, health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Otherwise, children's homes are financed by education, otherwise infant formulas are financed, otherwise foster care is also funded, and otherwise facilities requiring immediate assistance are also financed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The relevant ministries did not agree at this time on cooperation in creating the possibility of transformation in individual regions and, from my point of view, on the grounds that these facilities are property of the region and, first of all, the conditions under which the regions will be transformed or the children's homes and constitutions dissolved were needed. At the moment, I will definitely connect with the Pardubice Region and the Zlín Region to agree on the financing of these two projects, because I think that they are a very important example for this further negotiations, because they have managed to prepare the transformation projects, that is one thing, and are currently also prepared for children to go to smaller households, as was the case with the transformation of care for the mentally disabled, where this project has also succeeded with the subsequent financing. Because for your information, they are funded by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, i.e. from operating finance to social services. I want to address this situation - and I want to say this in conclusion and promise it - with the relevant departments. The inter-ministerial group of ministries of labour and social affairs, education and health must be created here on the basis of cooperation and resolution of this state, so that we can agree not only on further transformations and launch of this challenge, but also on the financing of these services, which is very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u67	Thank you, Minister. Madame, are you interested in an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u68	Thank you very much for your answer. I would like to ask, in the supplementary question, whether, when you say, in which I completely agree with you, that the example of the two regions they want could be the example that draws, and it could be a kind of pilot, a pattern, if, for that very reason, the MPSV will be willing to represent the role of the Ministry of Education and, let's say, in discussions over the budget, to make sure that it is just a few tens of millions, which is not so much in the whole budget. I really want to see whether, before the question of unification, which is on a hugely long elbow, and not at all certain how it will turn out, you will try to put your political weight on the MPSV to inspire more through the pilot projects of two regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u69	There. Minister Petr Krčál has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u70	Madam, I am glad that you appreciate the role of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. However, I would like to stress that I would like to work with all these three departments. First of all, I have come up with the idea of taking part in the negotiations of all these regions and reopening this question. Because I think it is very important that this matter be discussed primarily at regional level, because the regions are the founders of these facilities, they are financed both from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, partly through the ZDVOPs and then mainly through the Ministry of Education at children's homes and from the Ministry of Health at infant institutions. So the common role of these ministries is inherent. It has to be. In any case, as you said, I will use these two examples to involve the other regions in this project and, of course, to make sure there are much more examples. Because transformation in two regions is currently very few. The funds, as I said, will be found in the budget in both Pardubice and Zlín Region, and I will definitely contact both regions in order to find a meeting in the next few days when I take over the resort, and we could talk about the funds for this project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u71	Thank you, Minister. And now I call on Mr Lukáš Bartona, who will intercede on the National Education Programme for the duly excused Minister Robert Plaga, and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u72	Thank you. Dear Minister, Section 3 of the Education Act states that the Ministry of Education is preparing the National Education Programme, discussing it with selected experts in science and practice, with relevant central trade unions, relevant employers' organisations with national competence and with regions and presenting it to the Government for discussion. The Government is submitting the National Education Programme to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of Parliament for approval. My questions are therefore simple. Does the Ministry of Education carry out its duties in the law for 14 years? When can we look forward to the National Education Programme being submitted to the House?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u73	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. I now call on Mr Vojtěch Munzar to give an interview to the duly excused Minister of Justice Taťána malý. Mr. Dominik Feri will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I am a little sorry that you are not present today, but I will cut back on my intervention and raise two fundamental questions. Constitutional lawyer Kysela in the media yesterday and today indicated that the government could have been appointed in violation of the Constitution, contrary to Article 68. I would like to ask you, as Minister of Justice and Prime Minister of the Government Legislative Council, whether the President can proceed arbitraryly in the appointment of a member of the Government or in the delegation of the proceedings, or the Prime Minister's proposal is always needed, as Article 68 of the Constitution says. Question two. Did the Prime Minister give you an analysis or any steps to get the President to act in accordance with the Constitution? And the last one, and I really hope it's just a theoretical question. If the Government were appointed contrary to the Constitution, would its decision be valid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I repeat that Minister Taťána Malá will reply in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I now call on Mr Dominik Feri. Mr. Ambassador, you have two interpelations behind you, in the matter of the debt amendment and in the matter of the chamber and the LRV. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Today, at the beginning of the meeting, Minister of Justice Malá was excused until 14.30 for work reasons. At 11.05, there was an interpelling, and it turned out that nine interpellings had been put together for it. At 11.50, Minister Malá's apology came to the end of the day. I'm really sorry Mrs. malý isn't here. I didn't mean to be confrontational. I wanted to ask about her intentions of the parties to civil proceedings, about the debt amendment, if it would change in any way in a personal way with regard to joining the ministerial post. And unfortunately, because Minister Taťána Taťána is not here, she cannot shed light on matters related to the performance of the clerk's office 300 km from her residence, or perhaps illuminate and correct the information that came out half an hour ago in an article on the iROZHLAS server with the headline of the incoming head of justice Tatána Malá, according to experts, copied in her thesis. I believe that the Minister will attend interpellation more frequently in the future and will not visit just one of the ten. Thank you for your attention. I will address my intervention on the next possible occasion, which will be the second week of July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u77	Mr. Ambassador, the Minister shall speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. However, Mr. Ambassador, you are now entitled to further interpellation. You don't want another interview, so I'm cutting you off. I would therefore now call on Mrs Olga Richterová. Mrs Richterová, you're in order. [[Mrs Richter is speaking to Minister Krcál.]] Madam! Mrs Olgo Richterová! [[Glee in the hall.]] Madam! I'm sorry, it went a little faster than you expected. Mrs Olga Richterová. I call on you to present your intervention to Minister Klára Dostálová on enforcement of decisions by the construction authorities and indemnifications. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u78	It was the darkest under the candlelight. Thank you. [[With a smile.]] Once again, I am very glad that the Minister has come. Basically, let me sum up what I'm dealing with. I'm getting suggestions from citizens about the enforcement of the decisions of the construction authorities. The point is that often, as the Ombudsman's report also describes, construction agencies do not enforce their decisions made in the public interest, because the municipalities lack money for this. And now the government has also been discussing these unexecuted decisions. A resolution was adopted in April of this year, I emphasise the creation of a programme that would just provide funds for the implementation of the performances. The program was scheduled to be ready by 30 June. Since the Minister has been a minister for several months, I believe that June 28th is the perfect time to ask how this programme is doing. At the same time, it also has a little bit to do with the responsibility of the State for the various damages caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration. In these matters, people are filing claims for compensation to the MMR. So my related question is how many of these requests are dealt with in a positive, negative way each year. What does it look like in the last five years? And how long does the settlement of the compensation claim take on average? I have experienced a specific example of the answer given to the lady only after fifteen months of waiting, which she had hurried, she was still promised. And then the compensation was denied. If she hadn't waited 15 months, she wouldn't have actually spent any money, she might have been able to defend herself in a court of law. What's going on? Is this the length of the answer normally? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Or how's it going at MMR? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u79	Thank you. I'd still read three apologies before we give the secretary the floor. From 15.40 until the end of the meeting day, Minister Hamáček apologizes for working reasons at the Ministry of the Interior. Furthermore, Mr Polanský apologizes between 14.30 and 18.00 for the hearing and Mr Petr Třešňák from 16.00 to 17.00 for the hearing. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u80	Thank you once more for the floor, Mr President. Madam, I could be very brief because I could say that the programming documentation is ready, but of course I think it deserves a longer answer. Just to clarify, it is a grant title for the execution of the decision, because according to the construction law it is the duty of the construction office in certain situations to order the owner of the construction to immediately remove the construction, carry out maintenance, carry out safety work and so on. At the same time by law, of course, the construction office has the opportunity to claim it from the owner of the property. If he doesn't listen, that means he doesn't respond to the building authority's calls, he can fine the building office repeatedly up to 200,000. And if there is no response after these fines, then the so-called execution from the construction office is ordered and then the enforcement of the decision goes to the fault of the municipality. And here we were just getting into a problem where the municipalities actually turned to me about having black buildings and so on and so on, but they don't have the resources to remove the buildings. That is why the Ministry actually came up with a proposal to open a grant title at the Ministry of Regional Development. He was supported by the government in this activity, and, as the honourable Member rightly said, she has ordered us to process the programme documentation that is ready. The subsidy programme will be launched along with other subsidy programmes in October this year and the allocated amount will be around CZK 60 to 100 million. Of course, we are still waiting for the final confirmation of the budget negotiations, but we assume within this range. As regards the second question, the Ministry is, in fact, a competent central and administrative authority under the Act on liability for damage caused by the exercise of public authority in the section of territorial decision-making and construction order and expropriation. There, of course, we deal with the applications made at Department 83, which means that we really need to examine each request on the basis of the facts found, the documents requested by the lower construction offices, because of course the building office must take place there, then the senior construction office, which is the regional office in the case of municipal construction offices, and then it goes, of course, to the Ministry of Regional Development. That deadline is six months. This means, if it is of course a longer time, that it is always necessary to solve a specific example, because sometimes it really happens that we have to ask for a supplement because there are things there, and this is interrupted by the deadline. And it usually happens to us that somebody will write to us that it takes 16 months, but in the finals, the Ministry is actually fulfilling a six-month deadline because they don't count the deadline. And you asked for specific numbers. It's about 90 applications a year. Year 2018 - up to today 50 applications, year 2017 - 87 applications, year 2016 - 90 applications, year 2015 - 86 applications. Well, if that's how... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u81	Thank you. And now I don't know how to interpret, Madam Secretary, a request for an apology has landed on me by Secretary Klára Dostálová from 16 to the end of the day, which is now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u82	Yes, I have a meeting to attend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u83	So you're not even gonna...? [[Yeah, I'll wait.]] That is what I was going to ask if it makes sense for the Member to ask additional questions. So please, Madame, please ask a supplementary question, and the Minister will wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u84	Thank you very much. Just really fast. I noticed that you said that you usually follow those deadlines, and I was wondering if they always manage to keep them, or if you still have any numbers, that sometimes those deadlines are exceeded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u85	Thank you. Please, the Minister will respond to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u86	So I really have to ask at the Ministry, because my colleagues wrote in my background: MMR complies with deadlines. But I'm really gonna find out if there's any case where we haven't kept the deadline to be really precise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u87	I thank you and move on to another interpellation, which is the interpellation of Mr Vojtěch Munzar to Minister Jan Hamáček in the matter of the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u88	Thank you. It's very solid from the minister who was here until a moment ago, and now he apologized before my interview. He probably didn't see the subject as well as our topic - we wanted to ask the same questions in the course of a proper meeting, but it was vetoed by the movement YES and ČSSD. That's why I'm not going to give my interview, but I'm sorry I have to think of it as a bit of cowardice from the Minister that he doesn't want to answer questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u89	Okay, thank you. I take it you're withdrawing your intervention, and now Mrs Věra will be intersecting... No, Mr Jakub Michálek, Madam Secretary Taťána malý - absent - on the issue of cumulation of office. Mr Michálek is not here, in which case the interpellation is failing and Mr Petr Pávek will intersect Minister Marta Nováková on the mine in Frenštáta. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of the Government, Madam Minister, as I did before the Minister of Finance, I am addressing you in the matter concerning the Dolu Frenštát in the cadastral territory of Trojanovice, where we visited with the Economic Committee last week, and because the representatives of the Authority have informed us of their request to close this mine and to liquidate the buildings that are illegal there, according to them, so I am interested in the Ministry of Industry and Trade, if possible according to the concept that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has in the framework of mining activities and within some ideas about the material reserves of coal. You probably got my questions, so I just want to ask if it's relevant to the facts so that we can deal with this on the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u91	I thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u92	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members, gentlemen and honourable Members. At the outset, I would like to say that I have been resident for almost 30 years in the municipality of Frenštát and still have a part of my family living there, so the issue is very close to me. However, I'd answer about that much about your question. As the Minister of Finance for the Future of Dolu Frenštát has already responded to your interview here, the Ministry of Finance is a 100% owner of Prisko, which will exercise its property rights there, and has informed you about the exercise of those property rights, that it is therefore considered with gradual closure of all the mines that belong to this. However, we have an approved state raw materials policy and we need to resolve within the new government, to balance actually what is in the state raw materials policy, with the property law of the state, virtually. Ministry of Finance in relation to the Frenštát mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u93	Thank you, too. The Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u94	Thank you. I understand the issue. I just want to point out that, as the Minister of Finance has also said, it is clear from your words that this is an inter-revisional issue, and for that reason I am interested in what position the Ministry of Industry and Trade will take in the inter-ministerial negotiations on the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u95	I thank you, and I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u96	The Ministry of Industry and Trade, of course, respects the existing legislation in force. And let's say that the coal reserves are strategic reserves, and within the state's raw materials policy, but also the state's energy policies and the owner's intentions, we're just going to have to balance the relationship, like I said. We simply need our government to find a solution to resolve the situation of Dolu Frenštát. We know how it looks, we know what the requirements of the municipalities are, on the other hand, they are strategic stocks of coal and we simply need to find solutions that will satisfy the needs of the Czech Republic as such.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u97	Thank you. Mrs Maříková, Minister Vojtěch, will now intersect in the matter of personnel devastation of health care, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, you promised in April that you would end the project of Ukraine, which imported Ukrainian doctors into the Czech Republic without mandatory tests. But the opposite happened - the project was extended. The doctor's chamber warns in vain that the safety of patients is so compromised. The project was significantly influenced by both the Czech Medical Chamber and the Chamber of pharmacists and dentists. This was not an aversion to foreign colleagues, but a criticism of circumvention and patient safety. Ukraine's doctors are working on the position of doctors on an exceptional basis, even without verification and language tests. It's not so clear if he's communicating with his colleagues and patients. Do you not think that this is a threat to the safety of patients when a doctor is operating without acquiescence tests for 16 years, because if he does not pass the exam, they can work under professional supervision, what do many of them use? Aprobation tests for foreign doctors are not easy. Success rate is about 10 percent. Do you think this is because the limits were set too high, or is it a difference in education between Czech and foreign doctors? You have expressed yourself that these doctors will have to pass the exam within a year. So won't such a doctor be able to practice the profession of a doctor without professional supervision, which is the usual practice today? On the contrary, the medical chamber suggests that foreign doctors and Czech medics take the exams so that their level is uniform. What is your position on this proposal? Do you think it is desirable to ensure a uniform level of foreign and Czech doctors in this regard?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u99	I thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a little smiling - not the interpelation, but in principle this morning I responded to an interpelling by Mrs Aulická, who is not here, and she, on the contrary, blamed me that we are not doing enough for these aprobation tests to be done by Ukrainian doctors and that we need Ukrainian doctors etc. Of course, you can see that opinions are different. Some people want it to be easier for Ukrainian doctors to work with us, but some people want to tighten the conditions. It is true that the professional chambers - the Czech Medical Chamber, the Czech Stomatological and pharmacies demanded this. On the other hand, we were in principle communicating with the regions, which were heard on the basis of the fact that we were saying that we would end the project, so all 13 regions - outside Prague therefore - called with a single voice to me and the Prime Minister about the fact that they did not agree in principle with the termination of the project, because in their hospitals, especially in those affected regions such as the Ústecký Region, the Karlovarský Region, those Ukrainian doctors are simply needed and cannot do without them, and in principle it would result in them having to close the department, for example in a Teplice hospital, etc. That means maybe 100,000 patients wouldn't have internal wards. So the real question is that we don't spill the baby with the bathtub. [[16.10 hours]] I agree that it is necessary to have certain quality standards. We certainly do not want to reduce the requirements for foreign doctors, i.e. in this case Ukrainian, in terms of requirements for their knowledge, but we do not think that as today's probation exams have been set, it is simply not entirely happy. We were discussing it here just this morning in response to the written interpelation, when e.g. the fact that a doctor has to do four tests, four stateswoman basically in one day, is really very difficult, and that may be the reason that the success rate is about 10 per cent for oral exams. We said that we wanted to adjust the organisation of aprobation tests based on a number of suggestions. We have already taken some measures in the sense that those Ukrainian doctors, or doctors from third countries in general, must perform and will have to practice at accredited workplaces, the practical part, i.e. will be under professional supervision, which are, of course, also today, those workplaces will have to be accredited, there will be a clear educational programme. This ensures quality when it comes to the doctor's prep section. And it is clear, and it is also a fact today, although the chamber here, of course, says that there is a danger of patients and that patients will die, we do not, I have to say, in the Ministry of Health the only complaint that any patient would be harmed by a Ukrainian doctor. Indeed, it is not that we have a stack of complaints in this regard and we have to deal with them. On the contrary, it is - and I am in those hospitals that are concerned, whether it be Teplice, Cheb and Ústí etc., where they are satisfied with the doctors, they simply say that the exam is organized in such a way that, in principle, Czech chieftains admit that they would not do it, because it is very difficult in the sense that the doctor has to pass four tests in one day. If he doesn't pass one test, then he has to repeat them all at once. So we have to change that. But the practice, the experience really isn't negative. And ultimately, who is responsible for the Ukrainian doctor making any mistakes? Of course, the one supervising him or the hospital where the Ukrainian doctor works. If that Ukrainian doctor harms anyone, it's gonna be a hospital that's gonna have to pay compensation. So I don't think that directors, management, chiefs are stupid enough to keep someone there who's basically not a doctor at all, and leave him in touch with the patient. I think the reality is not as negative as the Czech Medical Chamber presents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u101	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u102	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I am from the Karlovy Vary Region, which you mentioned, and I must say that the level of many doctors is really very bad. While patients are not officially complaining about complaints, when you move between them, they say they don't communicate with foreign doctors. And according to your words, we'll probably be waiting for someone to get hurt. Doesn't it occur in the Czech Republic that we basically expel Czech doctors in quotation marks by replacing them to a large extent by doctors from abroad? According to the estimate of ČLK in the Czech Republic, 3,000 doctors are currently missing. A small part of Czech medics are headed straight from schools to Western Europe. Other doctors leave during their careers. Does your ministry have any analysis in this regard? And what is its possible conclusion in relation to the maintenance of Czech doctors in the Czech Republic, so as not to lead to their departure abroad? If you do not have such an analysis, what is your opinion on this issue? [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u103	The Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u104	Thank you for the floor. I really don't want to question this. It should be said that in the whole project Ukraine, which we are talking about here, that it is really a major threat to Czech health care, about 150 doctors are involved today. We have about 43 000 doctors in the Czech Republic, which means 150 of them are in the project Ukraine, respectively. doctors who are so involved. So I don't think it's about expelling Czech doctors that they're replaced by doctors from abroad. It is indeed still a very marginal number, but unfortunately, some hospitals simply cannot do without them. And now, of course, we have to look at the scales. So either we say yes, this project ends, it talks, it ends, and it leads, and I have no reason not to trust both the regions and the hospitals, that the departments will close and end up with careless patients completely, or we'll adjust the probation exams, give the annual limit to those who are just here. Because I agree with that, and that was, of course, a mistake, a big mistake, that doctors have been left here for many years, some six years, without rehearsals that they haven't done repeatedly. Of course, that's not possible. We need to set a clear limit, and we want to set it, it's the annual limit, if they don't pass the exam by that year, they're just gonna have to go. But to stop it right now from day to day - from our point of view, I think we'd pour out a bathtub and a baby. So we want to adjust the aprobation exams, we want to set an annual limit, and we believe that if we adjust the exams like I said, the success rate will be greater, and those doctors will be able to work in those hospitals as standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u105	I also thank you and now Mrs Kovářová, Minister Vojtěch, will interpel on blood donors and Mr Pávek will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u106	Dear Minister, as you may know, during the last parliamentary term, I have devoted myself to the position of voluntary blood donors. The amendment, which managed to enforce, brought for them higher tax reliefs and tax reliefs also explicitly brought for donors of haematopoietic cells, respectively. bone marrow. I have taken the conviction from the debate on this issue that the persistent problem that the blood donor has suffered is that some employers have not been able to accommodate their donors because of inadequate settings. By this inadequate setting, they mean that compensation for wages granted by law to donors is paid by employers through their means, even if it is an act of public interest. This led us to consider whether it would not be possible to compensate these employers for the resources spent, for example. by way of tax relief. Indeed, the cost of an act of social interest should be borne by the whole company, not by the employer. Minister, do you agree with this thesis? If not, then why? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u107	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u108	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, it is a fact that in recent years there has been a systematic but very slight decrease in the number of registered blood donors, but this has not affected the availability of medicinal products produced from human blood. According to data for 2017, there was a slight increase in blood donors within the group of regular donors as well as in the audience compared to 2016. For a group of repeat donors, this is an increase of about 5,000 people, with a group of first-timers of 3,500 people. Every year, around 6 to 8 percent of people who need to be replaced on an ongoing basis leave blood donors' records naturally, especially because of age limits or health reasons, due to health restrictions. In this context, the Ministry of Health has long supported actions to support donation in the Czech Republic, such as: The project Donate blood with Czech Radio, whose aim is to raise awareness, increase interest in blood donation and therefore especially reach out to a guide, which are especially young people who have never given blood before. [[16.20 hours]] The Ministry of Health provides support for voluntary unpaid blood donation and its components, especially through the Czech Red Cross, which appreciates blood donors, and among the priorities of the subsidy programme that we are now preparing, a subsidy programme Development projects for health care for 2019 is included in the promotion of blood donation within a blood transfusion service facility, which is what we are preparing for 2019. As regards the improvement of the situation within the possible change within the meaning of the tax advantage of blood donors, with this path, the Ministry of Health agrees, in accordance with the opinion of the professional public, namely the professional society for transfusion medicine of the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně, but this is a matter which must be dealt with primarily at an inter-ministerial level, it is not directly within the competence of the Ministry of Health, so it is certainly a matter that we can deal with together with the Minister of Finance in terms of tax advantages for employers. So we basically agree for us, but it's not something that we could initiate ourselves, virtually. We can initiate it, but we are not the subject in this regard who can propose the legal change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u109	Thank you. The honourable Member will be interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u110	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm glad you're inclined to our opinion. We had this proposal in our original proposal, but it was not clear through the Ministry of Finance, so in order to get through at least something, some tax advantage, we withdrew the proposal. I have announced that I will try to make a proposal of this nature, and I hope that you will help me convince the Minister of Finance that this is the right proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u111	Thank you, too. The Minister will want to respond. Please, Minister, a follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u112	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure you do. I say for myself and for the Treasury, we agree with that in a matter of fact, of course I can't guarantee that I can convince the Treasury, but I'm happy to help with that. [[Health]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u113	Thank you, too. Mr. President of the Pávek of Minister Brabec on the Dolu Frenštát case will now be intersecting. Mr Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. Dear Minister, I will only visually turn around, and if you have heard the answers of your previous colleagues, because I feel like a coffee maker here for procedural reasons, which keeps repeating the same, but, as has already been said, since this is an inter-ministerial matter where the Frenštát Dolu will be decided by the government, I would also like to know your position for the Ministry of the Environment, because the mine is actually on the border of the protected Beskydy landscape area, and the development is imagined by local governments and associations in a completely different way than mining activity, so if the Ministry of the Environment is going to take a position on this through you, and if so, what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u115	Thank you. Before I invite the Minister, I have a note here. We apologize to Mrs Monika Červíčková from 16.20 to the end of the day for family reasons. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u116	Good afternoon, Mr President. Thank you for asking. I don't think I'm gonna say anything absolutely fundamental that hasn't happened here yet, but I understand that you're actually asking all the departments involved. I may return briefly to the topic mentioned here by the Minister of Industry and Trade, because it actually has something to do with the Ministry of Environment's agenda, and I can only confirm - and you know - that today it is actually a bearing in the phase of non-financial reserves, which is the step that has been taken, if I am correct, sometime in 2002, and still the non-financial reserves mean some kind of inter-step, and then the next would be a complete write-off, i.e. a complete abolition of the bearing. However, in order for such a bearing to be cancelled, i.e. to actually de iure - de facto would continue to exist - it would have to be completely excluded from the register and that would have to be decided by the Ministry of Industry and Trade after discussion with the Czech Mining Authority and that would, of course, mean a change, already mentioned in the reply of the Minister of Industry and Trade, of the State's raw materials policy. From the point of view of the Ministry of Environment it is quite easy because you know that more than 50 percent of the area Trojanovice lies in the protected landscape area of Beskydy. At the same time, it is a Europeanly significant Natura 2000 site, which has a high natural and landscape value and is also intensively used in recreational and residential terms. This is logically based on the dissenting statements of state authorities in the area of nature and environment protection, local authorities and civil associations, so the opinion of the Beskydy Landscape Authority, which falls under the Ministry of the Environment, and, as I said, all the ammunition involved is, even if it is only for reconnaissance in some future purely theoretical steps, constantly negative and I dare say that it would remain constant negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u117	Thank you, too. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u118	Thank you. After all, I would put a little pressure on your personal opinion on this matter, regardless of the raw materials policy of the state represented by the MIT.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u119	I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u120	I'm sure my personal opinion is that I can't imagine the circumstances under which it would begin to mine again. But once again, from the legal point of view and from the point of view of mining legislation, in order to really never be possible, it would mean that the full depreciation of the deposit would have to take place, which is a step that would have to be triggered by the MIT or the Mining Authority. It's only 1.6 billion tons of coal that's underground somewhere. But I think or even believe that under the current circumstances, but very probably even in future circumstances, how the bearing is conceived, what the geological structure is and what territory it is located in, I really can't imagine its real mining.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u121	Thank you. Mr Munzar Munzar, Minister Hamáček, will now intersect on the way in which the Government is appointed and Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u122	Thank you. I'm downloading both this and the following interpellation, because it's an interpellation that makes no sense to wait thirty days for an answer, so I'm downloading both interpelations when the minister isn't here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u123	Thank you for downloading the interpellation. So, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel Minister Staněk on matters of cultural monuments. Mr. Michálek will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u124	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the subject that I often and gladly talk about is cultural monuments. More specifically, ensuring the financing of their recovery. I believe that it is still insufficient, especially as regards the State's share. I have tried to convince the Minister of Culture Herman and the Minister of Finance of Babiš about this in recent years. I hope there were some results. I would now like to ask you, as the incoming Minister of Culture, whether the promotion of restoration of cultural monuments has and will have your support, whether you will have the necessary increase in funds with the Minister of Finance to fight with enough heart. If she has shown something quite clearly in recent years, it is that much depends on the personality of the Minister of Culture, who must stand up for himself in a confrontation with the Minister of Finance. Minister, will you be such a fearless minister who stands up for cultural monuments? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u125	Thank you, too. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the duly excused absent minister will reply within 30 days. Now, please, Mr Michálek, who will interpel Mr Hamáček on the enforcement of the right to information. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u126	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, for many years I have devoted myself to the right to information and deal with a number of issues relating to this, and I know of many and many cases of people who have wanted to obtain information from civil servants in legitimate cases, and unfortunately because of the imperfect system of the right to information, they have found themselves in an endless circle of recovery by an appeal authority from which there is no way out of it. These are cases where a journalist may ask for information and then makes 14 appeals, and the decision is always annulled as illegal, but the person doesn't get the information. This means that there is no effective protection of the right to information guaranteed by the constitutional order of the Czech Republic in Article 17 of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. And I wanted to ask you to work to improve the enforcement of the right to information, not to mention cases that are problematic, such as the call for information, but in those cases where people are genuinely legitimately looking for information that the authorities have at their disposal, where it can contribute not only to information and public debate, but also to the economy, because the information is re-usable. The state has a lot of economically very interesting information, such as information that is about timetables when it runs which connections to connect it. And even in this case, the authorities were unwilling to provide information on the timetables and maintained the monopoly of one company. So in this case, I think we should work on fixing the current situation. We know that the Act on Free Access to Information was adopted in 1999, it began to apply 1. 1. 2000 is now our 20th anniversary, and we should do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u127	Thank you, too. The Minister will answer you within 30 days. And I beg Mr Dominik Feri, who will intersect Minister malý in civil matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let's do it again. Madam Secretary is a minister for one day. She wasn't in the previous government, and it would be very unfair to ask her some sneaky questions about the state of the ministry. That's why I was going to ask her about her visions. Here in this contribution, it was supposed to be a vision of the parties to the civil order of the court, which is now at the stage of a material intention. Unfortunately, Madam Secretary is not here. And all I want to point out is that her apology ran out 45 minutes after the interpellation, when a third of today's interpellations turned out to be on her. That's the only thing. Of course, I will ask these questions, which will be dealt with for the next few months and years, in the future. Thank you. And for the record, I'm downloading the interpellation under number 13, 14, 25, 27. That means all today's, both the previous ones and the following ones. Thank you and have a nice rest of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u129	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Michálek, who will interpel the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u130	First of all, paradoxically, I have to commend Minister malý for not being here, because according to my information, she has gone to Brno to resolve the course of her duties, which is a good thing, because the Minister should do his full-time work. And now for the subject of interpelation, which is the Justice Council. The Justice Council is an institute which is introduced in a large part of the countries of the European Union. We were with the delegation of the Constitutional Committee in the Netherlands and we had a meeting with the Vice-President of the Justice Council there and the President of the European Judicial Council network and discussed the possibilities of introducing the Justice Council in the Czech Republic. Because when you experience the role of Minister of Justice, you must realize that it is very difficult to implement some reform in the judiciary, because the justice of the nature of the Czech constitutional system, and that is correct, the nature of the division of power, must be independent. Thus, the Minister, who seeks to increase the quality of justice, is bound to come across some resistance from the judges and needs a clear partner to represent the judiciary, would guarantee its independence as the whole branch within the system of division of power. And since we have the three highest courts, a clear institution that would take responsibility for the general judiciary and the Constitutional Court, and tried to improve the quality of the judicial system towards the citizen, so that he could get his decision fairly and in due course, we do not have such an institution. I wanted to ask the Minister if she would consider the possibility that the Czech Republic would prepare the introduction of this institute and join a fairly wide family of states that have this guarantee of independence of justice. On the other hand, I must say that none of us wants the justice system to be independent of the laws and to have some kind of encapsulation here, like in the Balkan states and Slovakia. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u131	Thank you. Madam Secretary will reply in writing within 30 days. And since Mr Feri withdrew his next interview, please Mr Pávek, who will interpelise Minister Dostálová in the case of Dolu Frenštát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, this is the last interview in the Dolu Frenštát case, plus for the secretary who left a while ago, so I will not have an oral answer. But Minister Klára Dostálová plays an important role for the Ministry of Regional Development, and I would like to get the answer as soon as possible for 30 days, because that is actually where the removal procedure is taking place. According to the information I have from the region, the construction of the mine has never been colonized and the building permit has been continuously extended until the day someone neglected to do this, the building permit has expired, and thus the construction has become illegal and, in fact, as an illegal construction, it has to be removed. There's some kind of lawsuit going on. I was hoping to receive the information factually correct, so I would like to ask the Minister to deliver the information to me on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u133	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary will reply in writing within 30 days. And now, since Mr Munzar has withdrawn his next interview, I will ask Mr Michálek, who will interpel Mr Plaga on the matter of the national education programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u134	Thank you for the floor. In principle, I refer to what Lukáš Bartoň has already said, who had a similar interpelation. It also struck me that since 2004, we have had a provision in the current school law that we should have a national education programme, from which the framework education programmes and so on are to be based. This document has not been adopted in 14 years of validity, and therefore we are constantly getting into useless debates about whether greater financial literacy is to be introduced or whether programming in primary school is to be implemented, what should be learned specifically with regard to technological developments and, say, the development of society. All this information should be subject to a broad political and public debate after consultation by the Ministry of Education with stakeholders. And this document is to be approved under the law in force by Parliament. Unfortunately, this has never happened, and I think that we should finally make it right so that we can forgive ourselves for these discussions and that there will be a document for the creation of the framework education programmes that will have democratic legitimacy for this famous House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u135	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister is not present, so he will reply in writing within 30 days. And I beg Mr Pávek, who will interpel Mr Vojtěch on the subject of jobs and the House press 199. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have read amazing things in reading the Government's bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and on amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, House press 199, about how basically the purchases of medicines and other things will be simplified and how this will affect positively insured people and how the Treasury will positively touch it. I've read that it will be more effective than it has been, and I like it all. And then I read that there are claims to increase the number of administrative posts and the associated costs and expenses. So without looking for any sneakyness in it, I'm really sensitive to this. I think that simply the ministries as central authorities of the state in general are kind of swelled in terms of the number of people, and therefore the agenda that these people are making up, and I do not see it as a very good idea for other people to take on government as part of the efficiency of any process. So I see the sum of the annual costs here at 18 and a quarter million and the one-off costs of 25 million. So I'd like to ask you if you know about this, that you're back behind your back as if you're just smacking the government again, and if that's really necessary in your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u137	Thank you, too. And I ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bit of a smile. First of all, it must be said that it is not medicine, it is medical devices, it is aids. And it needs to be seen in the context of the first genesis, why we propose the legislation and what it actually contains. I was talking about it at the first reading. This is where the system, which has been abolished by the Constitutional Court, still works until the end of this year, so if we accept this proposal, when the establishment of reimbursements of medical devices is basically on health insurance companies, primarily at the VZP. It sets a remuneration based on some market research in the lowest economic option, where some officials do it. And the Constitutional Court said that it was unconstitutional, non-transparable and unpredictable for the patient, and canceled it with the fact that by the end of this year we have time to prepare new legislation so that the claim was in the law and the whole rules were in the law. So basically it's happening that this agenda is moving from the VZP, where without a doubt, I don't know how many people have done it, because it's an agenda that we just have to do, the Constitutional Court has ordered us to find it, and there must simply be some administrative entity, whether it's an insurance company or it's an SÚKL, or it's a ministry that's gonna be able to administer it. We can't suck that out of our finger, and of course some people have to do that. So now some people at VZP are doing it, they're probably not going to do it from that one. 1. 2019, if we approve this proposal, and it will be done by the Ministry, especially the State Institute for Drug Control, where 25 employees will deal with it. It is a matter that is not so fundamentally administratively complex, we have set it up or set it up so that it is not completely administratively difficult, but yet a certain administration will do so in terms of eliminating medical resources from those categorization groups, creating groups of interchangeable means, price competition and so on. There's got to be someone in there who can manage it. And then there has to be a review. This is also actually something that the Constitutional Court said is a problem, because there is actually no review. In this case, there will be a review at the Ministry of Health. As with medicines, for example, if payment is decided, it is possible to appeal to the Ministry of Health. And that's where the six employees will be, the appeals against the first-rate decisions. So I don't think it's any major increase in the administrative apparatus, it's just a transfer from point A, where somehow it was done according to the Constitutional Court and, in my opinion, unconstitutionally, not transparently, corruptly, moving to point B to the State Institute for Drug Control, namely the Ministry of Health as an appeal body, and these two entities will administer it, the claim will be clearly laid down in the law, clear rules. We really tried to set it up so that it would be as least administratively demanding as possible. I don't want to talk about this legislation again, because I said it at first reading, and there's gonna be plenty of time for that in the health committee. But it just has to be administered, at least the foundation. And I don't think the increase is significant. We will, of course, cover it from the means of our chapter. We probably won't be demanding any substantial increases in funds for this. Of course, there's going to be that initial investment that's going to go back to primary software, because, of course, the whole record has to be under some kind of software solution, some kind of tool. So it's some sort of initial investment, but I don't think this is something that's so important, if we're talking about it being medical resources for about CZK 6 billion a year, it's about 50,000 of them, and maybe they're for hundreds of thousands of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u139	Thank you, too. Mr Pávek is interested in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u140	Thank you, Minister, for explaining and describing the contents of the law. I basically agree with the bill's proposal, except for the new places. I believe that any increase in the number of official posts is very crucial today, when it is as if the parasites are simply too many units and especially on the central organs. But I liked your expression as a transfer. And that doesn't sound like a transfer. If you said that, like, I'm canceling places here because they're not gonna be doing the agenda anymore, and I'm gonna kind of bring them back to life here because it's like we're moving the agenda under another subject, it doesn't matter if it's the Department of Health or if it's the State Institute for Drug Control, I would understand it and I would really applaud you. But here it looks like you really want to create more places.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u141	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u142	It's not like that. First of all, it needs to be realised that VZP is not a state body, it is not a state institution, so we do not directly influence how many people there will be. So the move is de facto, but of course de iure it's not that the spreadsheets are crossed out by VZP and moved to the Ministry. You must know that the VZP operates differently in this respect, it is not a state institution. But the agenda will move, so some people who managed it at the VZP, so we also need people who will manage it at the Ministry of Health. But the important thing is that we're going to cover these people not by raising the tables, we're not going to raise the spreadsheets or the new spreadsheets. We'll cover it with the people who are already there today, or the places that are there today. [[16.50 hours]] We don't have all the seats at the Department of Health, not by a long shot. I took over the Department of Health, where 65% of the occupancy was. Worst-occupied ministry of all. So I don't think we're spending money on useless officials, we're at 75, but it's still a lot under all the other resorts that have about 85, 90 percent, so we've got the vacancies and we're gonna use them just like the State Institute for Drug Control. So we're not actually going to ask for new places, we're going to use those that are empty today. After all, the secretary of finance, if she were here, would confirm that she's saying no to every office, every ministry that demands an increase in systemized positions. It's very strict no matter who it is. So in this clear assignment or clear idea that it should not just increase the number of seats. They're supposed to occupy those who are free, or those who are dead souls, so cut them off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-015-104.u143	Thank you for keeping time. That was today's last interview, so I'm saying that we've finished discussing oral interventions for today's meeting day. I thank all the members of the government who have attended, responded and endured to the end, as well as thank you all, Mr and Mrs Members, and today's agenda is exhausted. Meet me again tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when points 58, 59, 60 and 63 are fixed. These are initially points on transport infrastructure and roads, followed by school law and pension insurance. It's all third reading. Thank you, I'm done with today's meeting. I'm interrupting the House of Deputies meeting, and as I said, I'll meet you tomorrow at 9:00.
