ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-005-005.u1	5. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities and on the amendment of related laws, as amended /German press 104/ - second reading I welcome Senator Vladimír Plaček among us... and Senator Vosecký is also present. That's delicious. So both for the plaintiffs. Let me remind you that at second reading... it is clear that at first reading, we ordered this press to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Budgets. And I will ask Mrs Pekarová Adamová, who is the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. I will ask that Mr Jiří Dolejš, who is the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, be prepared. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-005-005.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to a really short report on the House press no. 104, respectively, to the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy which discussed the draft at its 13th meeting on 21 June of this year. No amendment has been tabled within the Committee and the following resolution has therefore been adopted: "The Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends, firstly, to the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the Senate Bill amending Act No. 329/211 Coll., on granting benefits to persons with disabilities and amending related laws, as amended, the House Press 104; secondly, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-005-005.u3	I thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy and ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Dolejš, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. I don't see my colleague Dolejš. Neither does the Prime Minister, so only one of the Vice-Presidents, if he wants to take the lead. If not, we can, of course, without the information, because the information of the guarantee committee has been notified. I am opening a general debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking who's applying from the point of view of this matter.? No one's checking in from the scene. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words, if that debate was... It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate. I would remind you that the amendments must be justified. But I also don't see anyone applying from the scene, because I don't have a written application either. In that case, I am done... and I see, Mrs Dražíková. Dražilová, I'm sorry. Madam, I apologize once more. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-005-005.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government. After all, I'd like to get off here to this point. I would repeat that it was said here at first reading that the amendment in question seeks to unify the conditions under which the disabled are granted a mobility allowance. Just to explain. Persons who are not provided with social services are granted this allowance on the basis of an honest declaration. And to those who are clients of residential services, this allowance is provided on the basis of the fact that they are actually regularly transported. It is in these different circumstances that the promoter sees injustice and apparent discrimination. It should be pointed out that the situation of persons using social services is indeed quite different from that of those who are in their home environment. All-day comprehensive care is provided to persons in residential services. And since I'm from practice, I can actually say responsibly that their need repeatedly - I stress repeatedly - is really rather exceptional to travel outside these facilities. On the contrary, those who do not benefit from social services must ensure their own needs and activities. However, this different way of proving entitlement, as I mentioned, does not mean that the mobility allowance is to be automatically withdrawn for persons residing on social services facilities. The current legislation, as I mentioned, allows these persons to benefit from the contribution if there are reasons worthy of special consideration. The petitioner points out that although the current legislation also permits the payment of the allowance to persons who are in residence facilities, this does not actually occur in practice or takes place very exceptionally. We have also discussed this issue, as has already been said, in the Committee on Social Policy, and we have agreed that there are various practices. And it is possible that there is a poor application of the methodical instruction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to whom contributions in residential services are paid. I have re-examined the situation in my electoral region, the South Moravian Region, and indeed, if the reasons are given, the mobility allowance is paid. What are the reasons in these facilities? It is that it is a ride into employment, for example, for people with disabilities. They're regular visits to a husband at another facility. They're regular family visits. For example, if a family takes their family member home every week, it is taken into account and is paid a mobility allowance. It's a regular visit to the cemetery, a regular visit to the services. So it's really paid off. It is probably not irrelevant that we have also heard that the proposed change would cost an increase of 400 million a year. As I did in those facilities, believe that the social workers work well, and if someone really regularly transports, this is what the employment office reports. However, I must say that in practice, there are other situations where the family is pushing social workers to give them this confirmation without the fact that they do. [[14.40 hours]] I think it is also necessary to mention that there would be a further burden on the labour offices, because all clients of the ZTP or ZTP/P travel services would automatically request payment of the mobility allowance. I therefore believe that the current regulation of the conditions for granting the mobility allowance is justified and fully proportionate, and therefore I repeatedly propose that the amendment be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-005-005.u5	There. Thank you, Mrs Lenka Dražilová. In the debate, therefore, Senator Vladimír Plaček. We are in a detailed debate. Please, let us not replace the general debate in detail. There is therefore a need to comment on the proposal that has been made in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-005-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I, of course, have to comment on this proposal, and I have to express in dissent that the transport of people who live in social services facilities is random and is not at such a high frequency as those who live outside social services. It is about how we are going to view the transport that is supposed to be regular, and for what reasons are people who are denied or removed from social services in residential facilities or not at all - the purposefulness, please, which is also here in these decisions, here directly and from the first instance, even from the second-instance level, I have a clear reason why the mobility allowance is not granted to people from social services residence facilities, that it is a trip to employment, to school or to health facilities, with the requirement that they should also demonstrate that they have been in the health facility, which is completely unrealistic, because health establishments will not issue it. [[shows the documents]] And if it were to be released, it would also be against the fee. However, the reason for rejection is precisely what my fellow Member spoke of as being family cohesion. And now, on the contrary, she said that someone was admitted to the cemetery, to family members. And here I have black and white that it just isn't admitted. And I'm afraid that methodology isn't solvable. That every office of employment just goes differently. Somewhere they admit it, somewhere they won't admit it. There are dozens of granted allowances for mobility to people from residential establishments, and there are many social services facilities in hundreds only. So I am very much in favour of you identifying yourself with the recommendation of the Social Policy Committee, which recommends that this Senate proposal be approved, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-005-005.u7	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? It's not like that. No proposal that we could vote at the end of the second reading means returning the bill to the guarantee committee or shortening the deadline for third reading so that the guarantee committee does not deal with it, and the only proposal that fell in the detailed debate - the motion for rejection is voted at the beginning of the third reading. So I can end the second reading of this proposal. I'm done with point five. Thank you to the senators, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish this point. According to the approved agenda, we will continue with the item
