ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-006-025.u1	25. Government bill on experts, expert offices and expert institutes / House print 72/ - first reading This item was interrupted on Friday 25. 5. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Helena Válková, which has already happened. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. Excuse me? [[Reporter's note off the mic.]] So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Doesn't look like it. So I'm going to vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 133, 168 Members were enrolled, for 132, against no one. The motion was accepted. I've noticed some confusion here at the newsstand. Won't we question it? Okay. So I'm saying that the proposal was ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-006-025.u2	Good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. Since the expert activity is very seriously involved in the health sector, one of the most difficult cases is the case in health law cases, but also civil cases in the field of health are very complex and there are many sectors or branches in the health sector, so I would like to propose a Committee on Health as another committee for discussion, because this is indeed a very important area in the field of expert activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-006-025.u3	If I understand correctly, it's the Health Committee. Does anyone else have any other suggestion on the commandment? It's not like that. So now we will consider the proposal to the Health Committee as the next committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 134, 168 Members were enrolled, for 120, against 3. So the proposal was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as another committee. Then we have a question about extending the deadline. I have a point here that the proposal has been announced, but it has not been mentioned in the general debate. Therefore, it would probably be necessary for someone to open the debate for us to do the procedure. Some kind of minister. Is there a willing member of the government who would tell us something about the microphone so that we can open the debate and submit a proposal for an extension of the time limit for discussion? [[The noise in the hall.]] Or maybe we can stop at this moment of discussion before you agree. But I wouldn't consider that appropriate. Someone has to suggest that too. So I apologize, but therefore the proposals for extending or shortening the time limits did not come up in the debate, and therefore I cannot take them into account. So that's how we dealt with the point as such. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur, this item ends and we will continue. So, I have a point number here.
