ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-002-016.u1	16. Member Jaroslav Foldyna proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 80/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 The point was interrupted yesterday and was also vetoed on the procedure under § 90 para. 2, by opposition to two parliamentary clubs and by opposition to the veto of 52 Members. So we would have discussed this point in a proper way. I will therefore ask the representatives of the appellants, this is Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, to take the position at the rapporteur's table, and, secondly, I will ask Mr Stanislav Fridrich to take the position at the rapporteur's table, because he is the rapporteur for first reading. In order for both of them to do so, it is necessary for the newsletters to leave the table. My colleague, Mr Foldyna, is present. I do not see the rapporteur yet. [[He's waiting a while.]] Well, they're both here now. We will continue with the interrupted general debate, which I do not have any application for. Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna, is reporting for the debate by the representatives of the appellants. Before I give you my word, my colleague, I will ask the House for peace. And those who discuss another subject and have not been given the floor, let them do so in the foyer. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-002-016.u2	It's not working. [[The microphone wasn't on.]] It's working, thank you, thank you. Mr President, thank you for the floor, thank you for the sound system. I would like to conclude by saying, before we vote, that I have had a number of interviews with representatives of individual clubs or most clubs. Of course, I see that the 90th is being brought up at this point, or in a normal regime, we would be discussing a law that goes into... in case it goes through this vote, it would go into the budget committee. I think that we are also prepared in the Committee on Budgets to respond to a number of objections that I have received from my colleagues during the negotiations. So I want to ask you, my colleagues and colleagues, if you would please accept this big problem, which is felt by many people who work in Holland, especially their families, and ask you once again to release the law into second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-002-016.u3	Thank you. I'm asking who's next for the debate. The rapporteur, of course. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-002-016.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, the difficult situation that the ships in the Netherlands have come to. But on the other hand, I must reiterate that I do not consider this solution to be systemic, because, on the one hand, for a smaller group, let's say two and a half thousand people create special tax conditions that are worse than all our tax residents, and on the other hand, it does not solve their financial problem in which they have now found themselves, because even when this proposal is adopted, it will not be retrospective, so neither will the tax obligation be forgiven, nor, as the Minister said, the penalty or fees are forgiven. So for this reason, I propose that this proposal be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-002-016.u5	Okay, okay. There's been a motion to dismiss. Who's next in the debate? If no one, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. The plaintiff, the rapporteur - does not want to. If there is no interest in the final words, we will deal with the proposal made in the debate, and that is the motion for rejection. If he doesn't pass, we'll deal with the commandment proposal. I think the condition is consistent with the number of... But the plaintiff wants me to sign you off, so I will. I'll sign you all out. I'm going to ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. We will decide on the motion for rejection in the vote number 43 that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the motion for rejection. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 43 of the 115 present for 50, against 28. The motion was not accepted. So we will consider the suggestions for the commandments. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will proceed to vote number 44, which I have begun, and I ask who is, for the commandment of the Committee, a committee of budget as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 44 of 117 present for 113, against 1. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. [[11.10 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this item to other committees. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. Hasn't there been a proposal to shorten or extend the deadline? I'm asking the rapporteur because I haven't been driving all this time. It's not like that. I can therefore say that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee and has not been ordered by any other committee. The time limit for the hearing shall be 60 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. So we can end point 16. I thank the appellant, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. The next item is:
