ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u1	24. Change in the European Union's asylum policy and revision of the so-called 'EU asylum policy'. Dublin Protocol I would ask that Mr Tomio Okamura, who was the first to propose this point, take the floor. President Bartošek with priority rights. At this point, you're in the position of a petitioner. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, given the crucial point that we are dealing with, and we knew very well why we wanted this point not to be discussed until Friday, so we need to discuss this matter well within the parliamentary club, and I am taking an hour's break for the KDU-ČSL club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u3	How many, please? One hour. [[A commotion in the hall.]] So I, without debate, will comply with this proposal. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u4	I just wanted to take advantage of the microphone to call the club into our closet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u5	I'm saying we've opened the point, we're in front of the opening word, and we're going to continue at 10.52 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u6	It's 10:53, break's over. All Members to the O.R., please. I see a lot of applications here all of a sudden, so we're going back to the predefined point of the Change in the European Union's asylum policy and the revision of the so-called Dublin Protocol. We didn't even get to the opening words of the plaintiffs. I have information that Mr Tomio Okamura, Mr Radim Fiala, will not speak for the representatives of the plaintiffs. I'm asking if there are any objections. In that case, I ask the plaintiff for an opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government, Prime Minister, I would like to say in advance that I am very pleased that this item has been put on today's agenda and that we are going to discuss it. I consider this point to be one of the most important points of this spring. I think that maybe there will be no more important point than this, because this point really threatens the sovereignty of the Czech Republic in my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, during the time I have spent in this House, I have experienced two supercheats organized in Brussels against the will of European national states and their citizens. The first fraud was called the Treaty of Lisbon. At first, of course, it was not a treaty, but a so-called European Constitution. This so-called European Constitution was promoted, fooled people and believed that the European nations would approve it in a referendum. It didn't happen. Europe's nations have opposed it. They clearly rejected the constitution as an attribute of a single European state. It was very lucky, because today we would have the European Union as a state that would govern - as the former Eurocommunists and Maoists are still trying to do - the way they are. Surely you remember, and those who would take it lightly, you certainly remember, for example, the President of the European Council, José Manuel Barros. Just to tell you who it was. That was - and I quote it literally - the chair of the Portuguese Communist Party and its revolutionary vanguard. And I could name another one. After all, Mrs Mogherini, the European Union's "Ministry of Foreign Affairs," or even Mrs Merkel, is not far from them. When the referendum on the European Constitution did not pass, the Treaty of Lisbon invented fraud in Brussels. It is in principle similar; it does not merely require a referendum. The approval of the Lisbon Treaty on the ground of this House was a betrayal of the national interests of the Czech Republic. One day, history will urgently ask who is responsible for this scoundrel. We're dealing with a second con today. A fraud to rid the Czech Republic of the decision who will live on its territory. This fraud is called modification, or revision of the Dublin Protocol, and it is a change in asylum policy within the European Union. The quota system came across resistance, and in Brussels they began to fear the political shocks that would trigger this resistance, so they invented a new asylum policy system. There will be no more talk of country quotas. In short, and well, asylum powers will be transferred to Brussels. There he will decide who gets asylum, and there he will decide where the asylumant ends. The governments of the nation states will pretend they're not responsible for anything and that it's a thing we can't do anything about. It is the same as we are crying now that the majority and smaller states in Europe, like the Czech Republic, have lost the opportunity to veto or block decisions that threaten their sovereignty. Now we are crying about what we have approved ourselves in the form of the Lisbon Treaty. We just can't make that mistake again. We must say a clear no. We just won't respect it. And we're not alone. Poland, Hungary and apparently other countries will have a clear view of this. We need to stand on their side and keep moving. The Czech Republic is not a multicultural province. It's a national state, and it's an inheritance we're supposed to cherish and protect. Today's meeting is a fundamental test of who is at peace with the de facto loss of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, or who, in accordance with his pledge to the Member, will defend its right to act as a sovereign in the most fundamental thing, on the question of who will live in this territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I would still like to speak in a detailed debate and propose a resolution to equip Prime Minister Babiš on his way to Brussels to make clear the opinion of the Czech Chamber of Deputies, the Czech part of the Czech Parliament (?) that no one, neither Mr Juncker nor anyone else, can say that it is just the Prime Minister's opinion in demise or that he does not have to take this view into account. That is why we have called on this meeting, and that is why we want us to adopt today a resolution that we would send to Brussels through the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u8	Thank you. Before we get any further, I have some apologies here. Mr Špičák apologizes from 11 to 13 o'clock for personal reasons, and Mr Ivo Vondrák apologises from 16 to 19 o'clock for professional reasons. I also have information from the Pirates Club that their appointed speaker on this point is Mikuláš Peksa. I would also like to state before we open the debate that this is not addressed by the rapporteur's committee on this matter. As far as I understand it, the custom is that the first to speak for the House, not for the plaintiffs, is the rapporteur, so I would then ask the possible performers if they understood it. I have Mr Okamura's application here with priority rights first. [[Mr Okamura is objecting off the microphone.]] So you do not report to the debate, but do you want to speak before the debate before I open the debate? [[Mr Okamura's reply off the microphone.]] You don't want to be a rapporteur. Okay, so if you give up your priority right, we'll move on. Then I have Mr Peksa's application with priority rights. I would like to ask if Mr Peksa will be the rapporteur. [[Members of Okamura and Peksa agree off the microphone.]] No. Well, in that case, I'll ask if he's giving up his priority right. So let's talk, and then we'll get to the fact that the House has to identify the newsletters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u9	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. I have read the motion for a resolution and, unfortunately, I am a little disappointed with it because it follows exactly the previous tradition that Czech and European politics had in recent years. We are clearly denouncing ourselves here against some particular mechanism that the European Commission is proposing, but at the same time we are not offering any constructive alternative. Unfortunately, that's not possible, and I'm afraid it's gonna end the way it did in the past few years, that we're gonna be outvoted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is decided jointly with the European Parliament by the Council of Ministers, where a qualified majority is put to the vote. This means that there will be a real vote. And we have to build a corresponding blocking minority if we want to block a decision. I'm afraid this won't even be possible in cooperation with Poland and Hungary. So we must look for some constructive solution that would be acceptable to the other European states. We are not alone in the current situation. The Czech Republic is part of the European Union, part of the Schengen area, and if we want to move freely around Europe, as has been done so far, we must follow common rules. Because freedom is also about responsibility. And we have to try to agree on the common rules with the others. The Czech Republic will never have the strength to dictate the rest of Europe. We've never been in this position in the last thousand years, and I don't think we're gonna be in the next thousand years. I would therefore like to propose an alternative resolution on what was here. I'd like to read it to you now. Specifically: "The position of the Government of the Czech Republic for the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the European Union. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to: put forward a constructive alternative proposal for a proposed automatic correction mechanism in the form of automatic relocation of applicants for international protection between Member States; further, supporting the more efficient functioning of European information systems, thereby reducing the administrative burden on Member States' administrations; further, supporting the establishment of a functional common European policy for the return of unsuccessful asylum seekers to the countries of origin and supporting the improvement of the protection of the external Schengen border.'; I think this is really important, because the way it works at the moment, the way it's being created by existing traditional parties that are not able to effectively digitize and automate these asylum procedures, we just can't work. And we as the Czech Republic, together with other states, must try to modernise the European Union. That's all on my side. Please support this alternative resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u10	Thank you. As I understand it, Mr Peksa does not want to become rapporteur. And now Prime Minister Babiš has declared himself to me in the debate. So I'm gonna ask him if he wants a priority... He gives up in favour of Mr Okamura. [[Conjecture off the microphone, who will now get off.]] Let's make a deal, gentlemen. Mr Okamura, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad we agreed on the order with the Prime Minister here. The debate on the revision of the Dublin agreements on asylum for migrants in Europe should have several levels on the basis of a proposal from the European Union. Because to be honest, it's just the tip of an iceberg that will once sink the whole of Europe. The Dublin agreements initially address the asylum mechanism for refugees, so that refugees do not travel around Europe and ask for asylum in several countries at once. Their principle was that the applicant applied in the first safe country and this country addressed his case. The applicant means an application for international protection for people who are being persecuted somehow. It is certainly not economic and social migrants. As we know, no one has complied with this regulation. Today, we also consider economic migrants to be asylum seekers, and they are running around Europe as they please, more precisely according to what country offers good migrants. The European Union has responded to this by attempting to introduce mandatory quotas that would force countries like the Czech Republic to start accepting migrants. Some countries, as we know, have not accepted quotas despite pressure. And today we have another attempt by the European Union to impose quotas on us, but another way. In the case of Brusel, a beautiful Bonmot Karel Kryl could be used: "Do not trust barbed wire, even if it looks like a rose a hundred times. " Brusel will remain Brusel and stump by stump, writing another one of our classics. I also wonder what our diplomacy did. I mean, these plans have been going on all last year. Did our diplomacy sleep? Or did she agree? I don't know. There's only one thing we know. Once again, she failed shamefully. The representation of the state failed both in Brussels and in the Černín Palace. Now I would like to repeat the newly proposed criteria to redistribute the so-called refugees. Under this system, the refugee will be transferred to one of the four countries which have so far adopted the smallest percentage of asylum seekers from their quota volume. The quota level will be determined by the population of the individual EU countries and their economic strength expressed in GDP, i.e. gross domestic product. According to the proposal of the European Union, new refugees should preferably be placed in those countries which have the least relative to the population of immigrants. In practice, therefore, our Republic would not be given thousands, but at least 100 to 150 thousand refugees, so that their share would be equal to states like Germany or Sweden. Now we can all calm down by the words of the former ministers who lied to us when they said, "They don't want to come to us and they won't be with us." Well, just before his demise, a Mr Bohuslav Sobotka from ČSSD tried to solve this matter, who signed for the Czech Republic a document that he invited migrants to join us when he signed the so-called European pillar of social rights in November, where social, health and school policy is expected to gradually bond in the European Union. Or an immigrant lured by German generous social policy into Europe, caught in Italy on the basis of its sloppy border control and redistribution on the basis of the quotas proposed by the Dublin IV system to the Czech Republic, is signed by Bohuslav Sobotka to receive the same social benefit that he would receive in Germany, so suddenly he gets a pretty good motive to stay with us. Hollow borders, imports of migrants from the coastal waters of Libya to Italy, compulsory redistribution to European Union states and financial motivation for migrants. This is what the European Union's migration policy looks like in practice. I remind you that the very principle of redistribution of migrants is an incentive factor for migrants and smugglers, because they are given a clear signal that there is enough space and that the European Union does not intend to fire people, but rather to redistribute them. And even a single social system is approaching, so there is no need for migrants to go all the way to Sweden or Germany in the next phase. [[11.10 hours]] And it's getting worse. The European Court of Human Rights issues verdicts prohibiting illegal migrants from returning to their countries of origin if they cross them illegally, as was the case for example. in the Spanish Melilla. Worst of all, such decisions by the European Court of Human Rights are legally binding on the countries that are members of the Council of Europe, which are all states of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, and thus result in deliberate failure to address the problems of illegal migration. What about our MEPs? I'm sure you'll enjoy Mr Svoboda's opinion, and we know it's an openly pro-migration party. The problem he thinks is that no one has come up with a better solution. I quote, "We're trapped. We know that the existing system doesn't work very well, but no one could think of better." End of quote. So, in the perverse logic of these pseudo-humanists, illegal migrants have only rights, whereas the duties of a majority society must accept them involuntarily. Well, to the folks, to the pirát, to the kalouskovs and to the STAN movement and to the other pro-migration parties here in Parliament, I would repeat what with the migrants who will overcome the border, and I will repeat our proposal: go out with them again, across the border! It is noteworthy that the European Union does not have a problem with the violence of migrants to EU countries that do not want migrants, but cannot return them to their homeland or to the country from which they illegally entered the European Union. Can't or won't, ladies and gentlemen? Everything we have said above demonstrates that there is no shadow of any attempt to seriously address the colonization of Europe by Afričan and Muslims. In fact, we should stop wondering whether Europe wants to or cannot, and simply insist that we never allow any stranger to dictate whether and how many foreigners we should accept to our country, to the Czech Republic. To all migrants, i.e. folks, toppers, pirát, the STAN movement, many social democrats - not all - and others who claim that a few migrants will not ruin us, I recommend visiting the Muslim or African ghettos in Western Europe and let us think about whether we want them here too. We on behalf of the SPD make it clear that we do not want this with us and we will do everything we can to keep the Czech Republic safe in the future. At first, in each of these countries, they thought a few Muslims wouldn't kill them. It was a tragic mistake. A few of them have killed hundreds of innocent Evropan. And it's not just terrorists. They kill drug dealers, pimps, and hundreds of thousands more do this common criminal activity every day. At the same time, statistics clearly show that the increase in security risks is multiple with increasing migrants. I would define it as terrifying. Someone keeps telling the mantra that we have 12 migrants and we are a safe country. Both, of course, are not true in practice. Everyone on the street, like in the centre of Prague on Wenceslas Square, at night sees that there are thousands of migrants here. After all, we don't just need to see it visually, but there are clear numbers. The government has also set up four asylum facilities - and I am not saying that the previous government, which has been here for a long time - four asylum establishments that work all year round and migrants who have been granted permanent residence in the Czech Republic are taking care of there for our taxpayers' money. And there are Muslims. As far as security is concerned, we all see with our own eyes that concrete counter-terrorist roadblocks are growing on the streets, and policemen with machine guns have been walking the streets for at least a year. That's not the standard condition we want here, and that wasn't here a few years ago. We in the SPD remember this very well. We in the SPD are fighting our best to get the Czech Republic back to normal and it was really safe here. Let us pray hard for it, the believers, the naughty and the heretics, for it to be so. The fact is that since 2016, we have been officially under the first level of threat to terrorism, which means the existence of a general threat to terrorism. That wasn't here before either, and it's clear, black and white. It is better than in France, where they have been in a state of emergency for years, but in principle, we too have gone into a permanent threat regime. Ladies and gentlemen, let us ask honestly why this is so. Is it because it haunts Okamura terrorism or other MPs? Or is it that real terrorists are haunting the government, and that's why they set up roadblocks and put a cop with machine guns on the streets? Everything that reduces security risks in our country is good and we are obliged to do our utmost for the safety of our citizens. We in the SPD are promoting system solutions. Let us not just take half-steps on the security of citizens, by which we delay the solution to the substance of the problem. I think the House should agree on a resolution rejecting any principle of redistribution of migrants that violates our sovereignty and the right to freely decide who our country accepts. We will not help the world's problems by destroying our own country by dragging the international problem to our home. Our government, our President, our MEPs and the Czech Commissioner, should all push for solutions in Brussels to prevent the escalation of the problem in the Czech Republic. We don't want to endanger our innocent citizens and our future. What has been agreed must be followed, i.e. guarding the external border of Schengen, confiscating ships to non-profit-making migrants to Europe and building them outside the law, ordering Frontex to return the migrants collected back to Africa, to expel all those who have come illegally and without documents, and without mercy to expel any legitimized migrant who violates the law here in Europe. And of course, the first thing that needs to be touched on is a generous social system towards migrants, on which migrants are parasites, and which is, in fact, one of the main moves for them in Europe. Dear colleagues, migration is like salt. A pinch of salt can appetize the soup. But when you pour the whole salt into it, you destroy it for good and make it edible. The soup of our friends in the west can no longer be eaten and becomes a death cocktail. The solution, however, is not to pour something into a food that is not poisoned, but the ideal form is to pump the stomach immediately and throw out all the dangerous where it came from. But certainly not in the neighbor's plate. And I would like to make an advance announcement that - here we are already debating - that we would take a break before the end of the discussion on this point, so that those parties who are interested, and all the political parties whose signatures of the Members are under this proposal for an extraordinary meeting, so that we could meet for some 30 minutes - certainly this will still be the case - and that we could agree on a common text of the resolution, all those parties including the YES movement, including the ČSSD, including the ODS, including the SPD and including the KSČM, so that the resolution is in general consensus. There's no need to turn this into politics. This is a serious matter for the whole Czech Republic. I would be very pleased to see the Prime Minister attend this meeting, too, so that we can really give a common signal on the consensus of the Chamber of Deputies, how we see this problem so that we can proceed together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u12	I, too, thank you, and I would like to ask if Mr Tomio wants to take up the role of rapporteur. If there are no objections or other proposals against this, I would designate him as rapporteur. That is why we can proceed to the opening of the debate. Before I challenge... No, I'm sorry, Prime Minister Babiš actually applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the government that resigned this morning, which was appointed on 13 December, the issue of the asylum system and quotas, of course, is a priority. That is why I asked the President to appoint a government on 13 December so that I could attend the European Council on 14 December. And I have yet to visit the Committee on European Affairs on 13 December, in fact the government has not yet officially been appointed Mr President, and I think we have been debating there for about an hour and a half. And on Thursday, I'm going to go back there to tell you what development is and what we're doing. We really consider this a priority, we pay more attention to it. I think it is unnecessary for Mr Okamura - through Mr President - to actually scare our citizens here. Because we're not really in permanent danger. We're not. We are the sixth safest country in the world, crime is falling. And the roadblocks? I beg you, the roadblocks were put in by the authorities, of course. Yes, after the discussion with the Home Office. But the roadblocks have been there since 2015. It was some kind of measure because there could be a lot of things, and if somebody goes after Paris drugged or under the influence of alcohol and doesn't make it here... and gets into that Old Man, of course, the priority is the safety of our citizens. We're doing everything we can to make sure that what happened, that we were overvoted so that it couldn't happen again. That is why I am already at the European Council on 14 December, and before that I had a meeting with the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, who confirmed our position that quotas are inefficient, do not work and divide Europe, yes. And that's for sure. And that, of course, is why we have a clear strategy. That's why we're doing it first and foremost. I took the floor at the European Council, the performances were different. Of course, the European Council will not vote on this; this is a political body; it will, of course, be voted on by the Council at the level of ministers of the interior and justice. We have clearly spoken very specifically, also the Prime Minister of Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, and of course I have, and we have clearly said that this is the way for the further distribution of Europe and it is the way to hell. I think we have a clear plan. We have a clear plan to prevent this, and that is clearly to concentrate on the agenda of the Home Affairs Council, so that what happened does not happen so that we do not get overvoted. Of course, we must convince individual premieres of the Member States, and I am, of course, doing so. I'm talking to them, I'm on the phone, January 22 - now Bulgaria's Presidency - I'm going to see the Bulgarian Prime Minister. It is certainly a priority, 26. is V4, 24., 25. I am in Davos, where I will meet several European politicians, there is also a lunch organised by the President of the European Commission, and on 29 January I have a deadline with the President of the European Commission in Brussels and with other representatives of the European Commission. So we're doing our best, and it's our priority. It's a priority for us not to. I am long-term critical of the European Commission's approach to migration. I'm criticizing it for the long term. I clearly said that we have systems like Ellis Island in the world, all immigrants to America went through Ellis Island, the Canadian system, Australian, yes, and basically I also criticize how we are actually defending the European continent, why Greece is in Schengen and the states are not around. Mr Juncker was now visiting Bulgaria and said that Bulgaria belongs to Schengen. That's great. I've been talking about this a long time ago. Not only Bulgaria, but also Croatia and others, the whole of Europe is supposed to be one Schengen. When I took a car from Austria to Prague on January 1, there were two currents on the border with Germany, and I don't know, about 20 police officers, each car was visually inspected. Yes, I say - well, it's a shame we don't have it in Catania to check it out. On the other hand, it is also absurd that I have now sat with people from the interior and we have dealt with the lack of labour in our country - nurses, doctors. And when someone finds a nurse in Ukraine, they wait a year and they have to have permission. And it doesn't work here. So I have a clear view of it. I made it clear at the European Council that the solution is to fight smugglers. The fight against smugglers who earned EUR 5.7 billion in 2017 according to Eurostat - no, according to Europol. Unbelievable! Yes, it is true that migrants who come from Africa have mostly paid for it. So that's not what we've been talking about in the long run. And the fact that Europe overslept didn't solve the problem in Syria, that we left it to President Putin's influence to negotiate with Erdogan, and Egypt, Libya, so I say it out loud. We have made it clear that we want to deal with this outside of Europe. V4 agreed to put EUR 35 million into the Italian fund. I originally thought that there were some Italian troops in Libya that helped to protect the border. It's not supposed to be. And I was also wondering where the money was going. And it was pretty hard to find out at all. I also want to see it in some way, because it's a lot of money, and we need to know, of course, that it landed not with smugglers, but really where we need to protect the border. I asked critically in August 2015, I was criticized for what NATO did (?) what we do in the Mediterranean, where 25,000 people drowned, is what the Frontex is doing. Yes, I criticized it. And we need to push for this to say: Europe is one continent, the whole of Europe must be Schengen. We have to defend Europe and we really have to do everything we can to do. Yes, the argument that the number of migrants has decreased, clearly, but it is not systematically addressed. Of course, the quota system is unacceptable. And I repeat, I'm sure we're going to do our best to do this, and we have a plan for that, but I don't want to tell him who and how we're going to address who could help us, but we have a plan for that. We have a plan to somehow try to get the blockage, in case something happens. Because the truth is that at the European Council, one of the prime ministers threatened it more or less, and they are still talking about solidarity, but we are talking about responsibility. So we're going to do our best to explain. And I would ask my colleague Okamura, through Mr President, not really to say here that we are in permanent danger and that we are actually doing nothing, that we are haunted by terrorists and so on. Indeed, this is not the case, and I think that the Security Council of the State has also discussed this several times during previous governments, that the services know what to do, do it well and have concrete results. So we are a truly safe country and it is a priority to take care of the safety of our people. So I just want to say that Dublin IV is not equal to mandatory quotas. We have a clear plan, it's not that it's a Brussels-Prague relationship. Some big states support us, they're in the same boat with us. Unfortunately, there has not yet been a new Austrian Prime Minister at the European Council, there has actually been a former Prime Minister. [[11.30 hours]] So please, the draft of the new Dublin, the regulation, so-called. Dublin IV, part of the package of seven legislative proposals for the reform of the common European asylum system of March and May 2016. So it's actually a Dublin III novel. The aim of the amendment is also primarily to simplify the procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining the application for asylum. In particular, it is the determination of the country of the first entry of a migrant into the EU and its possible further transfer. Shortening of time limits, preventing abuse of asylum procedures. For example, explicit determination of the asylum seeker's obligation. So much of Dublin's proposal is acceptable to the Member States and brings a plus. But the key positions are different when establishing a permanent mandatory system for redistributing asylum seekers, the so-called "immediate'. quotas as a permanent element of the system. So we're definitely gonna do everything against those quotas. And, of course, the debate will also be a major issue at the European Council, I think in March. And, of course, there should be a finale in June. So trust me, we'll definitely be happy if the House tells us something new that we should be doing. And I think we're doing the best we can. We are in contact with the Committee on European Affairs, we are transparent, it is not a problem. I do this personally at expert level, and I think that Director Novotná, who has been doing this for 13 years, and Deputy Foreign Affairs Dürr, unfortunately Mr Stropnický has apologized, has a minor health problem, so we are coordinating it, and the goal is clear: to prevent what has happened before. The fact that we've been sued - yes, it's absurd, because some... but it has nothing to do with Dublin being accepted by some 20 migrants and not suing him, and it's on us, so, of course, it's a separate agenda that I'm going to discuss, and I'm going to do everything I can to convince the European Commission what nonsense it is. And, of course, the European Commission can drop the lawsuit. So we don't have a problem with the Dublin theme. But I'm begging you, don't scare people, there's no reason. We are a safe country, and we will do our utmost to be even safer and to really make our decision about who is in our country, and therefore - ours, I mean as governments, but companies and institutions - who will work in our country and who will live in our country. That it won't really be Brusel that tells us in this way what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u14	I thank the Prime Minister, too, and before we move on, we'll give two apologies again. Minister Dan Ťok apologizes to us from 4:00 p.m. for business reasons. And Mr Běhounek also apologizes to us from 16 o'clock to the end of the day. Before we move on to the general debate, I have here with the priority right of Mr Chovanec as the President of the ČSSD. Then please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as former Minister of the Interior, allow me to make some observations on this subject. I wouldn't dare say, and it's not true that the last government didn't work on this topic, didn't fight, didn't try, didn't deal with it, and most importantly, it wasn't successful. When we return to history, and here, above all, the answer to President Okamur through Mr President, the first quota system, ladies and gentlemen, has been introduced in Malta. Malta was affected by the crisis, was in severe trouble, and then the European Commission came up with a system of quotas. The quota system in Malta has failed. With everything. When you look at the implementation of the quota system for the period of our government engagement, we did everything we could to avoid overvoted. Until the last moment, the V4 seemed to be united, that the Polák would hold their position with us. In the last stage they decided to go the other way. Despite all this, we conducted the negotiations, led them very thoroughly, very precisely, the will was not. About the lawsuit that Prime Minister Babiš was referring to. You know, when we adopted 12 migrants, there really were 12, there were no 14, 15, 20 or 30, because we were unable to check them out safely. And whether someone's mad at us or not, the United States is currently, if they're looking into a migrant, that clearance sometimes takes a year and a half. We were asked to be able to examine these people in days, weeks tops. Those are just security precedents we can't approach. And I am very glad that the government of Andrej Babiš continues this trend. I also believe that the Ministry of the Interior has enough evidence and enough tools to defend the prosecution, along with the experts of the State Department and the Office of the Government, if that is the case. On the other hand, we need to look at the document we're talking about here, and it has two positions. One position is a material approved by the European Parliament, and there really is a system of permanent, permanent quotas in a form that is not acceptable. When we look at a proposal that goes to the Commission that has not been voted on, and I believe that a government that manages the de facto mandate of the Prime Minister or the Home Secretary will decide on this matter, both gentlemen will recall the same mandate as in the past that the quota system is unacceptable. If you look at the revision in the second part, there's a return policy. And we should agree to this part. The only way to deal with migration is with return policy. Because if those who are economic migrants and migrate mainly from Africa are sure that they will be returned, their tendency and efforts to pay for the smuggler will be limited close to zero. A return policy is the way to address migration for the future. And that's what's in Dublin. And at least we should agree with that part of the return policy. If we do not adopt return policies as a Europe-wide theme, we will not stick together - and the way to a common solution is a bit heresy, and these are common detention centres in Europe, alongside which, let's say, the airport from which the return policy will be made - if we do not move towards this central solution, it will be very demanding, very expensive and very inefficient for the national states. The Czech Republic, as part of the return policy, if we return one such migrant, that means that four or three people are flying this person on a commercial flight, and that return policy is almost impossible. I would ask you very much to ask the committees concerned, the Ministry of the Interior, namely Minister Metnar, to explain this issue in detail. I think the Ministry of the Interior is really full of people who have been doing this for years, they're word experts, and it would be a great shame not to have a chance to hear the truth about it, because there's a lot of talk about it here, but there are things that are simply and simply not true. I'm ready to have this debate, I'm ready to debate with the pirát, I've seen their alternative proposal. Of course, the digitalization is needed to be able to capture these people here, record them so that they can be better oriented. On the other hand, it is also necessary to have a network of information across the world, co-operation with the secret services. Because if we're not able to register these people and we're not able to compare it to something, then the chance to get to the truth is limited close to zero. [[11.40 hours]] When I went to the European Council, we said, "We don't mind if a refugee comes, if a Syrian woman comes with three children, if a needy person comes." We'll take care of him. We respect European law. We follow the standards. But I just hate it when young people come in here, young men without any control. And if you look at the previous situation, only about 30 percent of the people who have penetrated Europe have gone from Greece to Sweden, only 30 percent of the people have been registered. And that has to change. Protecting the common Schengen area is a way to eliminate security risks. Ladies and gentlemen, about these things where there are concrete roadblocks and policemen with machine guns. I want to thank the Police of the Czech Republic once again for their excellent work in managing the migration crisis not only in the Czech Republic, but in Macedonia, Greece, Italy, Hungary, Croatia. Everywhere our people were, they were one of the best. And our contingents were one of the biggest. This is the contribution of the Czech Republic to the resolution of the migration crisis. If there's a state in trouble, that's where we send our specialists. Immediately, to the maximum possible extent. This is the way from my point of view, and not that we will not defend Schengen area together. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way we're gonna haunt the public. The road is certainly not that we close the borders of the Czech Republic. I went to the Federal Republic of Germany in 1988 and would not wish my son or any Czech young boy or girl to have a machine gun on one side and a dog on the other side. Let us defend the common Schengen area and not allow ourselves to take freedom of movement and freedom of persons. And let's not be scared. I don't think there's a reason. We are a confident nation that has always faced all challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u16	Thank you, too. And before we proceed to the opening of the debate, Vice-President Fiala came forward with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u17	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here to a large extent the reassuring words of the Prime Minister, we have also heard the defence of the procedure of the previous government from the mouth of the former Minister. All of this might calm us to some extent. But it is the experience of the Czech Republic being exposed to the adoption of quotas, and as the Czech Government did at that time, I think it is a warning and it should urge us to take some precautions and to take a different approach precisely in the case of the draft of the new Dublin rules. I just want to remind myself that in the past period, the Czech Government has long assumed that the Czech Republic will not be able to be overvoted on the issue of quotas, because this will be decided unanimously at the European Council. I sat in the Committee on European Affairs during the last parliamentary term, and because I read the foreign press and because I watched what was going on in Brussels, I did not share this confidence of the then members of the government. To be fair, then, the former Minister of the Interior, Chovanec, did not speak with this, but similarly on the Committee on European Affairs, he assured us of both the then Prime Minister Sobotka and the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Zaorálek: There is no way that we will be overvoted. What are you haunting us for, Mr. Ambassador? It's obvious he's going to make his decision unanimously. The Czech Republic has nothing to fear... And what happened? Well, what happened was what could have just been assumed if we hadn't calmed down here in the Czech Republic like this, I don't know where the certainty that was false came from. What happened was that we were outvoted, that we lost our allies within the V4, so we weren't able to form a coalition that would stand up to quotas. And I must say that the government's progress, an uncoordinated practice in European policy, which can also be documented by the fact that the Minister of Finance, when he left for the Council meeting, did not have information that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs already had at that time, for example. Poland will not hold the position initially agreed by the V4 states, this position of government has led to this result and to the Czech Republic being overvoted and surprised here. Now we are in a situation where seemingly - seemingly this is not at risk, because the European Union states agreed in the autumn that this should not be voted in such a way as to avoid unanimity, and that, therefore, if a state does not agree, the adoption of new rules can be prevented. However, we must be careful again on this issue, because, as has already been said, there are two proposals and two positions. One proposal is the one that came from the European Commission, which has been running around since April 2016, and a little different is the position of the European Parliament, which was approved in November 2017 and which the Member States also have to deal with in some way. And there is a danger that all this will somehow turn around again so that eventually there will be a vote in the Council of Ministers, without Czech diplomacy, Czech foreign policy will notice. And we should commit the government to doing everything in its power to insist that these new rules be approved only unanimously and discussed at the European Council and that no state should be overvoted. Well, if we look at the proposal that we also have to keep in mind in this debate, not just the European Commission proposal, but the position of the European Parliament, so what do we find out? That there is talk of a permanent automatic mechanism for the relocation of migrants without an upper limit, of the calculation of quotas based on GDP and population, of placements of applicants who are given a choice from four countries which have so far adopted least applicants, etc. etc.. Note the interesting thing that the proposal assumes that asylum seekers will be able to choose to some extent, while the State that accepts them simply will not be able to choose. And I think that, in terms of international law, European policy, the values on which Europe is based, but also the sovereignty of individual countries, it is totally unacceptable. And the second thing that we will also notice, which is repeated here over and over again in the various proposals, is that countries that refuse to participate in the redistribution can be restricted access to European funds and support for the return of migrants to countries of origin. And this is a matter that we must also be careful of and reject very consistently. And not only because we could be reduced to drawing European funds. I'm sure we'd survive that, even if it were unfair. But we must be against it because it is a principle that goes quite clearly against the fundamental values of European countries' cooperation. The question of redistributing migrants with cohesion policy, funds and other things cannot simply be mixed up. This is an entirely disproportionate form of pressure, I would call it blackmail, which the Czech government must clearly reject. On this weekend, the Civic Democratic Party Congress adopted a resolution warning against the implementation of the Dublin IV European directive, which - I quote - would serve to automatically redistribute migrants from third countries and would mean limiting the national sovereignty of the Czech Republic. I think this is a responsible position, which should stand up for all the key political forces in the Czech Republic. It is a position on which this House should equip itself with the mandate of the Government of the Czech Republic and call on the Government to defend the interests of the Czech Republic very consistently, to oppose the pointless proposals contained in the reform of the Dublin rules and, above all, to try to prevent two things by all means, namely that the new Dublin contains a proposal for the redistribution of migrants, and also that the refusal of such a principle could lead to any financial sanctions and sanctions of those countries that are doing the only thing they have the right to - defend their sovereignty and defend the values on which the common Europe is based.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u18	Thank you. Now perhaps we will finally move on to the opening of the debate. And first of all, before we get to the logged in, I have here with Mr Benešík's point of fact. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u19	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I think that before the debate begins, it would be good for the petitioners to clarify to us what proposal we will be discussing, whether we will discuss the European Parliament proposal or the European Commission proposal which is currently being discussed in the Council. These are two relatively different proposals. And if we're gonna talk sophistication here, we'd need to know from the petitioners what proposal we're talking about. Thank you. I hope the submitters answer to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u20	Thank you, too. And by this I would like to call on the representatives of the appellants and the rapporteur to take up their seats because I do not see them in the hall and I do not find it worthy of the House. However, if no one opposes, we would continue to apply to the general... [[I can't do that!]] Abort? Well, in that case, we'll probably take five minutes off and wait to see if the plaintiff and the rapporteur take their seats, or if we do something different. I'm interrupting the House meeting for five minutes. So we'll continue with 11.56. [[The hearing was suspended from 11.51 to 11.56 hours.]] It's 11.56 and we're good to go. Mrs Balaštíková apologises to me from 15 o'clock to the end. I'm just reporting it. I see both the rapporteurs are here, and the plaintiff. So we can proceed to the applications. Mr Hrnčíř is the first to be logged in and Mr Kobza will be ready for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has recently announced that the United States will end its participation in the so-called a global pact on migration under the United Nations Curator. He reasoned with the words - I quote: "America does not end its generous approach to migration by this decision, but its decision on migration policy must always only be made by Američan and by no other than Američan. " I think Donald Trump got it exactly right. That is how responsible we should treat our country, folks. Directive setting out the criteria and mechanisms required for each Member State of the European Union in respect of the reception and establishment of migrants in its territories, so-called The Dublin IV proposed by the European Commission must be defended at all costs. This directive is not guided by some noble objectives, but it is a cynical attempt by the West to create a multicultural ghetto in the countries of the former Eastern bloc, which do not yet have problems related to the immigration of inadaptable cultures, immigration that Western leaders themselves have not managed. Part of this Directive is a redistribution mechanism which will automatically be launched if one of the countries of the European Union faces a high number of asylum applications. Although a Member State has the opportunity not to participate temporarily in this relocation mechanism, in such a case, it must pay an incredible EUR 250 000 for each migrant in favour of the State which accepted the applicant for his job, i.e. approximately CZK 6,300,000. Clearly, this draconian fine has one goal: to liquidate and humiliate the rebellious nations economically. [[12.00 hours]] A three-year period is also proposed for which priority will be given to those countries which have not yet participated in the reception of migrants. Of course, there is also an obligation to accept on its territory the other members of the family of a migrant who has been admitted in that Member State. The entire monster agenda is intended to be provided by a newly established EU asylum agency, which does not have to answer to anyone, only once a year has an obligation to report to the European Commission. These murderous proposals, in their consequences, tragically threaten not only the sovereignty of the state but the future of our country at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this malignant directive must be clearly rejected if you are not indifferent to the fate of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u22	Thank you. Mr Benešík, Mr. Benešek, has now reported to me in fact again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u23	Mr Vice-President, when I asked questions that I consider very important, and I believe that everyone else, even though it is vital for the SPD, needed to include it right now in order to save the Czech Republic, as Mr Okamura and Mr Fiala were simply wandering around the House and were not here. So I'm gonna repeat the question to them. This is very important for today's discussion. There are two suggestions. One is the Commission proposal which is currently being discussed in the Council. The second, rather different proposal, is from the European Parliament. I'm asking who we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u24	Thank you, too, and now it is Mr Jiří Kobza's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u25	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, through Mr President, I would like to answer President Benešík's question. Because in the current situation, we consider any proposed changes to be worse, so we refuse to change the existing system as such. And, as I recall, the European Parliament does not have a legislative initiative. Thank you. I would now move on to my contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand humble here in front of our voters, who have given us their trust and have given us a temporary commitment to care for their good and their safety. Yes, especially security is becoming an increasingly important factor in today's day. We're not scaring, we're warning about a real situation. I have spent many years in the countries of the Middle East and in black Africa, and I have always tried to learn from what I have seen around me, and from what I have experienced, it is therefore incomprehensible to me how it is not possible to learn from what is happening west of our borders. After the delirious reception of millions of uncontrolled and unidentified migrants, countries are plunged into chaos and violence, no matter how intensely they try to counter that fact or even conceal it from the media and rulers there. Fortunately, nowadays, with regard to the upcoming censorship, it is not technically possible to prevent raw and bare truth from reaching the surface. Western Europe has failed to supply millions of inadaptable migrants, and it is clear that it is trying to get rid of them. kupodivu, not by repatriation, in which hundreds of weird non-profits, agencies and activists prevent it very effectively, but by forcing them into neighboring countries. We can't identify with that. We cannot proceed to further changes to the existing system simply because, above all, Western European countries do not respect the current one. We really didn't promise our constituents that. Therefore, who lives in our country must not be decided by a Řek in Brussels, but it can only be the Parliament of the Czech Republic and the competent authorities. It is our inalienable duty of legislators across the political spectrum to protect our citizens and, with the full power of the House, to make sure that their families and their wives and children can live in safety and prosperity. We must therefore protect our country and our citizens from imposing, albeit in any way legitimately legalized illegal migrants, regardless of which country they came to us. The Czech Kingdom, Czechoslovakia and now the Czech Republic have historically always been multiethnic but never multicultural. Therefore, there was no conflict of cultures and, except for the wartime, it was safe here. It is our common task to continue to do so. I therefore call on you, colleagues, to refuse to accept any adjustments to the existing migration system, to put itself in place and ask the government to stand up for the precise, strict and non-negotiable demands of all the conditions of the existing Dublin and Schengen treaties, as they do in Hungary, because at this point, it is the fastest solution that we can probably use. We have a responsibility for our citizens, and it is essential that we fulfil this obligation with all dignity. Because if we hear the arguments that the Czech Republic is the sixth safest country, and at the same time we look at what's going on west of our borders, I can't shake the impression that this is quite a cheap victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u26	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue the debate. Before I give the floor to the next logged in, allow me to read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Stropnický apologizes for the rest of the day from 11 o'clock for health reasons, and between 16.30 and the end of the meeting she apologizes to Mrs Tatjan Malá. Before Mr Radovan Vích, Mr Ondřej Veselý is making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. SPD colleagues, of course, I'm not surprised you don't want quotas. That is an understandable point, and I think you will find support for this proposal across the spectrum. However, it amazes me that you refuse, and I am therefore responding to my colleague Kobza through Mr President that you are rejecting Dublin IV as a whole, because it is part of it to accelerate the return of unauthorized asylum seekers. I don't understand what you're saying. Of course, I admit the possibility that you are more liberal than I am and that you want asylum seekers to be here for longer and longer and longer. But I highly doubt that. Please think about what you're rejecting. If you reject Dublin IV as a whole, you will also reject the part that proposes to speed up the asylum procedure so that migrants who illegally apply for asylum return to their countries more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u28	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Vích will wait, with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mr Radim Fiala. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u29	Just a brief response to my previous speaker. I understand. The principle - we reject the principle. We do not reject - or reject the whole thing, but on principle. And that principle means transferring competence from national parliament to EU institutions. This is the principle of Dublin IV, which we reject. And then, de facto, anything can be written there. So in other words, when I translate it, we refuse to do another bad, negative thing, and I say it for myself, another crime in the Czech Republic, which we will then fix, and we refuse to do the wrong thing in the first part. Yes? We also refuse to correct the bad that we do in the first part, because for us, the principle is a priority. We simply do not want to transfer the competence from the Czech Republic somewhere else, and that is the most important thing for us. That is why it is important for us to reject this as a whole. But when someone comes up with what you're saying and it's just an accelerated repatriation, it's an accelerated return, it's an improvement in the conditions for returning refugees back to where they came from, so obviously we're not gonna fight it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u30	Thank you. I'll ask my colleague Vích to wait. I have Mr Mikuláš Peksa's point of order. [[There's a messenger coming in. Benešik.]] Mr President, also de facto. Okay. Then a colleague Benešík also made a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u31	I, through Mr President, should just clarify what Mr Fiala here said. This is not about transferring competences. Those competences, as they are now, are transferred to the European Union by treaties that have already been concluded. The European Union has to deal with some things from the logic of the matter now, because we have a common Schengen area and common rules must apply in this regard. The rules that are in the space must apply equally and to everyone, and therefore they must argue together. This is no loss of sovereignty of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic has agreed with other states to deal with this together with the international treaty. But, in principle, it still has that power, which follows from the Constitution of the Czech Republic. There's no transfer of competence here. This has already happened when we joined the European Union and agreed to solve the common problems together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u32	Thank you. My colleague Benešík has volunteered from the post, he must wait because the electronic application takes precedence, so Mr Vojtěch Munzar has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would react, through Mr President, precisely to what has been said by Mr Peksa, who has appeared here rather as a representative of the European Union in the Czech Parliament, and not as a representative of Czech citizens in our Parliament. You're talking about the fact that competence has been delegated and that this is a joint responsibility and that we should be looking for allies for the vote. But who asked the Czech representation to invite so many migrants to Europe? Unfortunately, no one. Unfortunately, we're putting out a fire here. We must put it out properly, we must put it out in cooperation with the European Union, but we must want an exemption from the common asylum policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u34	Thank you, honourable Member. Peksa's colleague is reporting electronically again, so he's in charge again. My colleague Benešík will wait. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u35	I would say on the current arrangement for the speaker through Mr President, there is a problem that Germany, or another country, has the right to let people who have applied for asylum in another country and who are in Germany also apply on their territory. It's not forbidden. The Germans don't have to, but they can do it. And in this case, they just took advantage of their rights and did it, which turned out to be a tactical error. But it just shows that Dublin III, as it is now set up, is not set up well and we really need to talk about how to improve it. It's not about breaking it, we need to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u36	Now, a factual remark from Mr Ondřej Benešík's chair of the Committee on European Affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm conservative, I report classically and pirát electronically. I'm not surprised at all. I'll make it easy for all of you. What do we want to talk about today? Of course, the European Parliament does not have a legislative initiative, but the skeleton went from the European Commission to the European Parliament and to the Council. The European Parliament has developed its own position, but it goes brutally beyond what the Commission has proposed. This is public, and that is probably what we are referring to in today's debate. What is in the European Council is private, but that is essential, because the European Parliament will not enforce anything without the Member States. And today we are supposed to tell the Prime Minister and the government how to behave in key negotiations at the Council, and that is what we are saying, of course. And so did the folklore, who here was completely untruely called a Europhile, I can't remember the words. I will quickly read to you the resolution that has been passed on my proposal as Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL and Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs: strongly rejects the Commission's proposal for the introduction of the so-called correctional allocation mechanism and the attached financial contribution of solidarity, which it considers inconsistent with the principle of subsidiarity; with reference to the above, calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to endeavour to remove the correctional allocation mechanism from the text and the proposal when discussing the reform of the Dublin Regulation at EU level and, in the extreme case, to block its overall adoption. As President Fiala rightly said, the proposal contains a lot of positive things for the Czech Republic, such as faster return of refugees and so on. That's why we didn't want to kill this whole thing. Our discussion is responsible, equipped with facts, not for the effect on Facebook. And this way KDU-ČSL will continue, but, of course, it will resist false attacks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u38	I also thank you for the conservative respect of the time limit for the factual remark. We continue with Mr Radovan Vích's speech. Before he approaches the counter, I will only announce an additional apology to Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková from the meeting between 9 and 10 o'clock. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, the Government, the set of directives and regulations of the European Union relating to the asylum system, called Dublin IV, addresses the problem in a completely opposite way than would be necessary. It's bad, and it needs to be rejected in principle. It is quite obvious that the migration wave has gone from acute to chronic, and the European Union is committing live suicide and is forcing us to participate. Dublin IV is not a danger to countries not yet affected by illegal immigration. It is only a visible permanent relocation mechanism. There is another provision that proposes binding harmonisation and harmonisation of asylum rules and procedures for all EU Member States, thereby denying national states to decide and conduct asylum and immigration policies independently. The so-called common European asylum system is proposed here, including the proposal for a common form of asylum procedures, and the establishment of a surveillance body of the European Union Asylum Agency, regardless of national views. Dublin IV is intended to limit the responsibility of the first States of entry for the protection of the external borders of the European Union and, with the help of a permanent relocation mechanism, to transfer it essentially by force to other countries of the European Union which, however, cannot guarantee or influence the protection of external borders and, moreover, contribute financially to those first countries. The less well-known provisions of the Dublin IV proposal are that the migrant will be moved, in particular, within the framework of this system, to countries which have so far adopted the smallest percentage of asylum seekers, so this applies mainly to the Visegrad Four States. How many are to be determined by the population of the countries of the European Union and their economic strength expressed in GDP and, in particular, by the number of migrants that have so far been adopted by the countries. From my point of view, this is clearly a brutal interference with the competences of the European Union's national states. With regard to the proposal for an alternative to what the Government has to propose, what Mr Peksa here has proposed, through Mr President, we do not need an alternative. We need everyone to follow what they're supposed to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you that the House reject all adjustments to the existing migration mechanism, collectively referred to as Dublin IV, as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u40	I thank Mr Radovan Vích. Now, Mrs Jana Levová, duly signed up for the debate. Mrs Jarošová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u41	Mr President, honourable Members, the SPD is a movement defending Czech citizens and interests, our traditions and culture. I therefore fundamentally disagree with the European Commission's intention to enforce the Dublin IV Regulation. The European Union is a grouping of states which do not have a common language, writing, currency, national heroes and historical experience. One of the fundamental functions of the state is the right to decide who it will allow into its territory. If I take this as a result and we give up the right to decide who we let into our country, then we can talk about a single European state, but in that case we should also have one common currency, language and writing. As my colleague Hrnčíř has already mentioned, the Dublin IV Regulation. contains an obligation to accept other members of the migrant family within its territory and this may lead to an increase in the number of migrants to unprecedented numbers. In conclusion, I have two questions. Have we really come so far that, under pressure of sanctions, we will be forced to accept migrants? We should all think seriously about what we will be forced to do further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u42	Thank you, Mrs Levová, now Mrs Jarošová, and Mr Radek Rozvoral will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of territorial sovereignty is a fundamental characteristic of a free and independent state. So far, I have felt that the Czech Republic is one of these countries. Lately, however, I am beginning to doubt this strongly. What brings me to doubt? These are primarily nonsensical regulations coming from the European Union. The most recent and one most dangerous for our country is the forthcoming Dublin IV agreement. What is this document about? Among other things, the transformation of independent European states into inconvenient regions similar to some kind of protectorates. If you consider these words harsh and excessive, then how can I explain this? I quote: The Member State has the possibility of temporarily not participating in the relocation mechanism. In such a case, EUR 250,000 must be paid for each migrant in favour of the State which accepted the applicant in his place. We're supposed to think of this as some kind of firecracker? I understand the importance of solidarity and helping the needy, unfortunately, the primary provider of this aid is those countries that have been begging migrants through their colonies for centuries. We've never owned any colony, or destroyed any country. So we have every right to decide who will live with us, whom we are willing to help, and no one can replace us in this right or impose on us their will and their views, which can ultimately completely change our security situation. I therefore appeal to the Chamber of Deputies to reject as decisively as possible efforts to introduce similar practices into the legal order of the Czech Republic, and if we do not find the courage to do so ourselves, then let our citizens decide on this matter in a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u44	Thank you, Mrs Jarošová, now with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Mr. Colleague Rozvoral is still waiting. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior from this place, who sits here with us, if he would be kind enough to step forward and say how it is, because SPD colleagues here have an opinion on what will have an impact on the Czech Republic if Dublin IV is adopted, and other colleagues, including members of the Committee on European Affairs, have a different view. I think if the Home Secretary comes out here who knows for sure what the fact is that we're going to save some of these debates, some of those contributions. I know he's in a position for a while, and on the other hand, I think those two months are quite a long time to get to know this crucial document and have an opinion on it. So I hereby call on the Minister of the Interior to come forward in this discussion and to give us a clear position from the Ministry of the Interior on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u46	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time on the point of fact. The Minister has listened to you and wants to speak with priority rights, but there is still a factual remark from my colleague Benešík, to whom I will give the floor on a factual point. Then with priority rights, Mr. Home Secretary. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u47	I'm sorry, I'm a quick learner from the Pirát. Well, it is not true that the members of the European Committee are excited about the reform, but we do not know what it will be like. If the reform stands to speed up the return of illegals, if they are reduced by social and material assistance in the countries and migration behind these benefits within the European Union, then that is a good thing. But if a permanent redistribution mechanism is introduced, or even sanctions for rejection, it's wrong. It's just not black and white how you read it on Aeronet. It's just different. And we do not know what the final proposal will be, which is why we are having this debate. But I really liked the contribution that the European Union is the solidarity of states, sovereign states that have transferred parts of their powers somewhere because it thinks it's more effective. Well, the SPD supported Miloš Zeman as president. Miloš Zeman is an open Euro-Federalist. Among other things, we were not in the Union and he was Prime Minister in 1998 to 2002, so in the Czech Republic he applied for asylum for 50,000 people. We were not in the European Union. Today we have 1,200, 1,500 people a year. Think about who you support. I don't think you're clear on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u48	I, my colleague, am tolerance alone. First of all, you've exceeded the time to make a point of fact, and second of all, I think we're talking about something a little different. Now with priority rights Mr. Minister of Interior of the Czech Republic Lubomír Metnar. Please, Minister, you have the floor, but only five minutes, because at 30, there's another point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u49	Mr President, honourable Members, many have already been said here. Before I get to the specific one, I'm just gonna start by making a point of fact. The resolution, when the Chamber of Deputies has already adopted an overwhelming majority in the past, is already described by about ten, where this is repeated here. Next thing. I'd like to comment on that now, let's say, comprehensively. In response to the 2015-2016 migration, the European Commission has submitted a proposal to reform the already common European asylum system. I may repeat myself, but of the seven legislative proposals, there is also reform of the Dublin system. The Dublin system is a European Union mechanism that is determined within EU Member States on the basis of objective criteria. The only State to discuss the application of the relevant alien for asylum and decide on the matter, wherever the application for asylum is made on the territory of those States. As part of the proposal presented, measures are being discussed to enhance the security and effectiveness of the European asylum system as well as to strengthen solidarity, including the mandatory redistribution mechanism for the event of a large migration wave. However, the European Commission's proposal on this point concerns only those entitled to asylum. The Czech Republic is promoting its position in the framework of negotiations within the EU Council, in accordance with a framework position approved by the Government and Parliament, and that the changes to the Dublin system do not contain rules for the automatically launched mandatory redistribution mechanism and that these changes should be adopted unanimously in the light of the sensitivity of the question. The European Parliament approved its position for negotiations with the European Council in October last year, which has also been said here, and this proposal is unacceptable for many Member States, and the Czech Republic will promote blocking these proposals in the Council of Europe. For my part, I would say that we are preparing and already have a number of meetings with colleagues, counterparts from the surrounding states, when we are in agreement. This government is acting very actively, working on this opinion, which is not at odds, which is the one that is being proposed here. Therefore, I would also oppose the fact that these are not easy points that the Czech Republic is the sixth safest country. That's a whole series of information that's in classified regimes and where we're constantly working on it. As far as the first level of security against terrorism is concerned, it is again a system that is carefully evaluated, and it is currently a preventive system. I'd just respond to the inhibitions and the machine guns. Unfortunately, the time and the security situation are evolving. We haven't had any inhibitions yet in 2016. The raids were made of police vehicles, the technology is changing, now there are mechanical barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-002-024.u50	I thank the Minister of the Interior Lubomír Metnar and apologize to Mr Radek Rozvoral for not giving him the floor again because it would be meaningless by 12:30. So far, I am interrupting this item in our meeting with the fact that we will continue with the 14.30 proper applications. First of all, it will be Mr Radek Rozvoral, second Mr Radek Koten and others, I think, eleven registered. Let's see what it's like. Now, according to the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we will take solid points, namely points 25, 26, 31, 32 and 33. Opening point
