ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u1	38. Proposal by Members Tomáš Martínek, Jakub Michálek, Ivan Bartoš, Jiří Mihola, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of the law on the selection of persons in the management and control bodies of legal persons with the ownership of the state and ownership policy of the state (nomination law) /German press 129/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as press 129/1. I ask Mr Martínek to present this press as a plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u2	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on 20 March 2018, the pirát, together with some other Members from several MPs - namely KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, ČSSD and STAN - submitted a proposal for the issue of a law on the selection of persons in the management and control bodies of legal persons with the ownership of the state and ownership policy of the state, so-called. Nomination law. A little bit of history. Already in May 2016, the government imposed Resolution No. 559/16 Coll. The Ministry of Finance prepare a law governing the selection of persons in the management and supervisory bodies of legal entities with the state's ownership participation, so-called. Nomination law. The law was thus intended to replace the current practice, where the nomination procedure is regulated only by a government resolution, which any new government can change arbitraryly, or depart from it, or even completely abolish the resolution. In November 2016, the Ministry of Finance submitted a draft nomination law, which was sent out to comment. In January 2017, the comments were settled and in April of the same year the draft law was approved by the Government. However, given the forthcoming end of the parliamentary term, the proposal was no longer discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. In February 2017, a group of Members from various MPs - YES 2011, KDU-ČSL, Úsvit, TOP 09 and STAN headed by Radek Vondráček submitted their version of the nomination bill. This proposal was very similar to a government proposal. Although the Organising Committee recommended to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for discussion and set out both the rapporteur and the guarantee committee, namely the Economic Committee, with the end of the term of office, the law could not even be discussed at first reading. In March 2018, the pirát, together with some members of other MPs, proposed their own version of the nomination law, which is based on Vondráčkův's proposal, but in some parts it is wider and more stringent. Content of the nomination law. What about him? The nomination act regulates the method of selection of persons to the management and control bodies of legal persons in which the State is to participate. At present, this issue is not regulated by law, so the rules for selecting these persons are in full competence of the government. The executive thus sets out the rules governing the nomination of companies with state ownership. The Government proposes and withdraws members of the Personnel Nomination Committee, which is its advisory body when selecting persons. The Government may also nominate a person to the management or control body of legal persons regardless of the committee's recommendation. He may call off a member of the committee or even change the nomination procedure at any time. For this reason, we want to adjust the nomination procedure in the law so that the nomination procedure is clearly defined and cannot be changed freely by the government. Here we follow the previous proposals, the government proposal of the nomination law and the proposal of Radek Vondráček and others who tried to anchor the issue in the law. The draft law therefore clearly regulates the position of the Committee on Personnel Nominations, the conditions for persons meeting within the Committee, the manner in which they are appointed and appeals, the length of their term of office, etc. At the same time, conditions shall be laid down for persons applying for a tender for office in the management and control bodies of legal entities with state ownership. How is the pirát' nomination law different? The proposal for a nomination bill from the Pirates pen, signed by other Members from different clubs, is more stringent compared to the government proposal and the proposal made by Radek Vondráček and others. The designers are trying to reduce the manoeuvring space available to the government during the nomination. It extends the draft law on the state's own policy and also extends the circle of persons to whom the law affects. The first part shall be the binding nature of the Committee's recommendations. Persons applying for a position in the management or control bodies of companies with state ownership should be selected on the basis of their abilities, should not receive this function as a so-called political trading venue. Therefore, in our proposal for a nomination law in Section 16, the binding nature of the committee's recommendations is laid down. The competent ministry may therefore appoint or propose only the person recommended by the committee to be elected or appointed. If the committee does not recommend any candidate, the Ministry must announce a new tender. This change thus involves the treatment of possible political exchanges by executives, for which, according to our draft decision of the Committee, it is binding. The next part is the expansion of the state's ownership policy. Compared to previous nomination bill proposals, the pirate proposal is anchored so-called. the ownership policy of the State with the characterization of its individual parameters. The Czech Republic's ownership policy is a strategic document that contains the general interests and objectives and fundamental principles of the State's activities as a partner, owner of a business share, founder or controlling persons in relation to legal persons engaged in business or other significant economic activities. [[11.40 hours]] According to the bill, the government creates and updates property policy of the Czech Republic. As a result of this enlargement, the state's ownership policy is being controlled. The Government is obliged to submit a draft ownership policy to the Chamber of Deputies on a regular basis, an annual evaluation of ownership policy or, if applicable, an annual evaluation of ownership policy. proposals for changes in ownership policy. This extends the control mechanism of legislation against executives in the field of state ownership policy. But ownership policy is merely a strategic document of the state, which determines how the state deals with its property, how it manages its trading companies. It shall not relieve the members of the institutions of their responsibilities, which are laid down by law, in particular the duty to deal with the care of a proper economic operator. To a certain extent, ownership policy also replaces subjective trust in a person nominated for a management or control body, because it is intended to help indicate in which direction the person should represent the interests of the State as a shareholder. The failure to comply with the ownership policy itself has de facto no sanctions, but may be taken into account when deciding to appeal in cases where the nominee deviates from it without justification. Another part is the extension of the circle of persons to whom the nomination law affects. Compared to Mr Vondráček's proposal and others, the pirate proposal for a nomination law includes cases of government nomination, but not of the Chamber of Deputies, the supervisory or administrative board of health insurance companies. It will thus prevent possible trade unions from occupying the above mentioned councils. So what are the main advantages of the proposal? First of all, the restriction of so-called. a political newsstand, or even a newsstand that may not be directly for politicians. More transparency in the selection procedure. With this related greater expertise of selected persons. More transparent operation of the businesses themselves. Avoiding controversial government personnel purges and introducing the possibility of measuring whether businesses are pursuing a predetermined strategy. Finally, on Thursday, 24 May 2018, a round table was held for this nomination bill, which was attended not only by politicians, but also by representatives of some ministries and other comment points who commented on the draft law for government negotiations. For the sake of greater consensus of the law, we are preparing a comprehensive amendment, which we would like to put forward together with the other parties in the second reading. The proposal should reflect a large part of the comments. We will also be pleased to have the comments discussed in a detailed debate during the second reading, so I would like to propose that we extend the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days, and I would also like to ask you to support this proposal so that we can discuss it at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u3	Thank you. Please the rapporteur, who is Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. We have listened to the pretty detailed introductory word of the petitioner on the nomination bill. I want to point out here that this is not the first proposal of a similar type. And, as has already been said by the petitioner, there are other proposals in the preparation that will or may be mixed. It is also a government proposal, it is a proposal submitted by the petitioner here. And the assumption is, as it has been said here, that at second reading we will be witnessing a comprehensive revision of this original proposal according to proposals and comments. From this point of view, we are actually putting into the first reading the law, which will be in second reading, we would have put into second reading the law, which will be comprehensively revised and will actually be on the table as if a different proposal. From the rapporteur's point of view, I confess, I have no way of expressing myself, because I do not know what will be the final text if I comment on the proposal that is now being put forward, and it is already announced in advance that it will actually be completely different. I am unable to present a relevant indication of how to proceed further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Michálek is the first to report, then Mr Kalous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the proposal for a nomination law, which I am a co-president of. This is primarily about managing state property. Of course, property can be managed by any owner, as he sees fit, under the law, within the limits of private law. But those who manage property that is publicly owned are bound by certain other obligations which are now laid down by the law on the property of the Czech Republic, and in general these are certain rules of proper economics, so that the property is of course not abused. As regards the property we are talking about in relation to the state's equity, it is in particular the rights of the owner who exercises shareholder rights, the ownership of the shares, e.g. nominate representatives to the management of these companies and determine or participate in the establishment of the ownership strategy. These are fundamental steps that may have an impact, for example. in the field of energy, if we are talking about ČEZ. These are decisions which the State is making not on the basis of its public authority, but on the basis of its ownership in a private area. I would divide my speech into three parts. In the first part I would talk about why it is necessary for the Czech Republic to have a nomination law, in the second part I would talk about international regulation, and in the third part I would talk about how the Czech Republic has so far taken up the task of laying down clear rules for nominations and what lessons we should learn from this and why it is important to present or adopt its own bill. That's the first part. We ran in the election with the fact that we want to solve the problem called. political newsrooms. I have here a rather long list of all those cases that were historically problematic, whether we start with Mr. Jaroslav Tvrdík, who, after his engagement as Minister of Defence, was rewarded with the post of CEO of the Czech Airlines, and after Boeing rejected him in Aer Vodochody and in the Czech Airport Administration, the then Minister of Transport KDU, and subsequently his management in ČSA led the company into economic problems and almost collapse. Another representative of the so-called the political newsroom, Petr Kott, who was famous for missing several key votes due to his drunkenness and was subsequently expelled from the ODS, went to the US-DEU Club and was rewarded with a post at the General Health Insurance Company. Tomáš Julínek acquired some position in the North Bohemia mines. The trojice Tluchoř-Fuksa-Šnajdr, who received the newsrooms known for their departure from the House, which was investigated by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc. Then it was stopped because of immunity. Another political nominee for the Czech Aeroholding was Mr. Vondra, and Mr. Šmerda was cleaned into the Czech Post and the Prague Postal printer. Unfortunately, this practice has its continuation in the case of the introduction of politicians into supervisory councils without proper transparent competitions, as well as in the duration of Bohuslav Sobotka's government, when a committee on personnel nominations has already been set up, but only on the basis of government resolutions. So here's the case of Mr. Stanislav Eichler, who got into the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank. Tomáš Vrba, designed for YES, to the Forests of the Czech Republic, even though he previously worked at the company Less & Forest, which owes 1.3 billion to the Forests of the Czech Republic. CZK and which The Forests of the Czech Republic are suing for 4.2 billion. Crowns. This conflict of interest has not been examined by the nomination committee. Jakub Hodinář, Military Forests and Farms of the Czech Republic, was appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Czech Republic despite having to leave the Board of Directors of the Railway Infrastructure Administration in 2013 after approving against the will of the Minister of Astronomical increase in wages and rewards in the company. Of course, this is not only a matter of the state, but also of cities and municipalities, but I do not want to talk about it here. I want to talk about state ownership policy. So it is not a problem that we would only be dealing with here in the Czech Republic, it is a problem that is solved internationally, and it is even the subject of OECD recommendations. As part of the OECD Directive, this renowned international organisation recommends good practice for States to create a specialised body that advises or prepares nominations, which can bring objectivity and transparency to the nomination process. The state should also ensure high qualifications and continuous training of council members. [[11.50 hours]] As far as individual states are concerned, they always have authorities that are, say, rigidly adjusted and are discussing nominations. Of those I have worked up here and are available to you in the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute to answer the March 3281 question, for example, in Denmark, nominations to state enterprises are approved by the Special Committee Appointment and Organisation Committee, which consists of the Prime Minister and selected ministers, and the chairman of the Board plays an important role in the selection procedure for members of the Board. Nominants to undertakings may be employees of the undertaking concerned or civil servants. In Finland, there is also a specialized department dealing with this, namely the Prime Minister's office, and the whole issue concerning nominations is regulated by a special law, as the Pirates now propose, namely Act No. 1368/2007, on State shares and ownership management. So in Finland, the law governing a very similar material, as proposed by the Pirates in the nomination law, in the nomination law and on ownership policy. These nominations are carried out by the property management department within the Prime Minister's office and prepared by a nomination committee composed of representatives of the owners of the company's largest shares. For example, if we look at Lithuania, in the case of commercial corporations, it recommends candidates for members of the board of directors of the Inter-Resistance Selection Commission. The candidates propose to the Commission a coordination centre for administration and management. When we look at Hungary, there is a specialized agency that manages state property. In Germany, the Federal Assembly controls the State's participation through the Federal Financial Grémia. I could, of course, go on and on like this, they have it in Poland and Sweden. I want to focus specifically on Sweden, because it is very well regulated there, including ownership policy. In Sweden, the nomination process for councils is coordinated by the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation within government offices. For each company, an analysis of the required expertise is carried out based on the activities of the company, the situation and future challenges, the composition of the board and the final evaluation of the board. The important thing is that they also have ownership policy in Sweden. Property policy is a document that governs the rights of the owner as a State. And that document should be regulated by law, because it contains absolutely essential requirements, things of type, if we want CEZ to be divided into two companies and one to remain State-owned and the other to be privatised. Such a crucial decision is not intended to be made by a mere government, even in some cases as we do now and without confidence, but it is necessary for Parliament to speak to it as the highest representative body elected in the elections. When we look specifically at Swedish ownership policy, I have here a document, which is from 2017, actually the most up-to-date ownership policy, which I would say very much describes exactly how it is adapted in the Swedish model. We have been criticized by the government here for wanting a fundamental decision, such as the privatisation of a part of ČEZ, to be approved by the Chamber of Deputies to discuss it publicly, because the Government's actions can be private. If we had an ownership policy at a time of wild privatization, there might not have been cases such as OKD, when the government irresponsiblely sold out shares and allowed it to take shares into private hands and subsequent tunneling of this company. We could've stopped all this if we had property policy. So let us look at how they regulate this in Sweden in state ownership policy. In point 2.1 above, it is stated that according to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 8 Swedish constitutions are entitled to dispose of state property by the government, with certain exceptions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 9 Constitutions Parliament decides The provisions on the acquisition and transfer of assets, including shares and shares in commercial holdings, are contained in the Act on the State Budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, The Government may acquire shares or property rights or otherwise increase State participation or ownership in a company only with the consent of Parliament. The government must also not provide the company's capital without Parliament's consent. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 4 The State Budget Act may not reduce, by sale or otherwise, the ownership of companies where the State holds half or half the majority of the voting rights without obtaining the prior consent of Parliament. In addition, Parliament's approval is required for substantial changes in the subject of state-owned companies' business. However, Parliament's consent is not required for the payment of a dividend because it is part of the ordinary administration. So here is an example of how this can work so that Parliament is expressing itself on these really crucial decisions. So it is not true what the government says that it must remain only within the powers of the government so that the government, moreover without trust, can sell out the Czech Republic's equity participation, perhaps in three years' time there will be some political responsibility. We think that such crucial decisions, strategic decisions, should also be discussed by Parliament. After all, when we compare it with the other things that we are discussing here, I think it is an outrage that such fundamental decisions, such as the privatisation of ČEZ, will not get into the House of Deputies' agenda. And now I'd get... I wanted to say another example of how it works in Finland, for example. In Finland, state firms have a very clear arrangement and they also have a special law of 1368/2007, which defines the powers of the Government and Parliament in relation to decisions relating to state control in a controlled company. For example, Parliament decides as regards companies if the State is to waive 100% ownership or control, or 50,1% of the share company in question. So we see from an international comparison that there are countries in which Parliament has control over the government so as not to abuse executive powers. And now I would get to the situation in the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, there is an authority that recommends nominations based on the Government's resolution, and its recommendations are non-binding. He is headed by Mr Augustin, the head of the Office of the Government, who used to be in the political party of SPOZ President Miloš Zeman. So in this way, nominations are chosen for state enterprises. Indeed, the YES movement itself admits that the situation is not ideal. When we look at the draft state ownership policy strategy submitted by the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic in 2016, it says that despite a significant positive shift, it cannot be said that the issue of the nomination process is solved. For one thing, during its existence, the committee did not initiate the creation of profiles by ministries to the individual positions of members of the Supervisory Boards, and the whole nomination process remained to some extent transparent and formal. So the government itself says that the current system is to some extent non-transparable and formal, that the nomination committee does not judge the basics by which a normal healthy person, a proper manager, would choose people to manage the stock company he owns. This also results from the failures that occurred in the past, which I mentioned when the Committee on Personnel Nomination recommended, because it did not request sufficient information about a conflict of interest, a person who, say, was in a supply relationship or worked in a company that was in a supply relationship with Lesa ČR. So we see that the current regulation is not transparent and that this needs to change fundamentally. After all, the Ministry of Finance, following the Government's programming declaration, prepared the substantive intention of the law on the selection of persons in the management and supervisory bodies of legal entities with the state's ownership participation in the last parliamentary term. However, this proposal has not been passed by the government, and therefore it has not been adopted, and we do not want to jeopardise the other fate of this country by leaving it to the government and on government squabbling when we have prepared a proposal that is already based on a document that has been discussed before in the commentary procedure, and we have only modified a few control mechanisms there, because the government has, of course, submitted what suits the government, but not what suits the proper administration of the country, or that, in the case of the most fundamental steps, Parliament has control powers. [[12.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a unique opportunity in the history of this country to finally do something about the problem of political traders. I hope that this does not turn out the way it was before when the ANO movement blocked the Act on the Register of Contracts, its extension to CEZ, was included in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, but that finally, when it has the opportunity to show it by voting, it will show that there is a need to do something about the political newsrooms and that it will support this proposal so that it can get to the next reading. If it has any of its own improvement proposals, if it does not want Parliament to control the government's activities, but that the government approve of its own policy, it can apply it at second reading. But I do not think that it would be right and in line with the electoral agenda and the promises to voters to cut this proposal. Thank you for your attention and support for the nomination law prepared by the pirát and presented with a number of other MPs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u7	I thank Mr Michálek. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue with two factual points, first Mr Martínek, with a factual remark and then with a factual remark, the President of the ANO Faltýnek Club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u8	Thank you. I would just like to correct the fellow Member of the rapporteur, Mr Luzar, who actually said that there are more proposals that are intersecting, which is not quite true, because actually the YES proposal has been withdrawn and the government is not addressing any of its own proposals at the moment, so de facto that is the only substantive proposal on this issue, and we would also like it to become, in fact, a proposal that will address the consensus on which a majority agrees at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek's factual comment. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In my factual point, I would just like to ask your colleague Michálek, President of the Pirate Club, to use the correct information, not the wrong one. He was talking about an example of a conflict of interest and the name Tomáš Vrba fell here. For everyone's information, who is Tomáš Vrba? Tomáš Vrba has been the director of the Forests of Prostějov for eight years - the director of the Forests of Prostějov, my colleague through the President - and has succeeded in multiplying the economic result of this company. It's a 100% owned company in Prostějov. Yes, at Less & Forest, which you talked about, which ended up in insolvency, he worked as a manager, he was the director of some race in Moravia and left this company one year before the announcement of this insolvency. So just so we're clear, there's some clear and concrete information going on here, Mr. Colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u11	Thank you, Mr Faltýnek, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Kalous, and then I have a remark here that the Prime Minister wants to speak. Mr Kalous. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one is, of course, questioning the need to set even more transparent rules for the functioning of state-owned enterprises, including nominations to the management and control bodies of state-owned firms. No one really doubts that. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that each undertaking with a State-owned shareholding is responsible for a specific ministry. Each company has its own owner and it has the responsibility for the joint stock company or state enterprise. This proposal by the pirát would introduce, for example, an institute of invalidity of an election or appointment, in the event of non-compliance with the nomination procedure. Practically, there may be a situation where the minister appoints someone, and after a year someone will question the validity of the appointment, the court will decide that the appointment has been invalid, and I ask if the actions done by the particular person and the actions may be dozens a day will be void. Furthermore, I do not agree that the State's own policy should be approved by the Chamber of Deputies, because I believe that this is indeed an intervention in the competences of individual ministries, namely the power of executives. I don't want to, and I don't think anybody wants state-owned companies to become some sort of branch of the Chamber of Deputies. Moreover, the authors of this law themselves acknowledge that the approval of the State's ownership policy by the Chamber of Deputies is non-standard. In my opinion, the proposal for a nomination law should be submitted by the government, and I therefore propose rejecting it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u13	I thank Mr Kalous. Now two factual points - Mr Válek and Mr Martínek. [[Ambassador Martínek wants to go to the microphone.]] First, Mr. Válek, he was faster. It's okay. It's just that my colleague Martínek wanted to outrun you, I didn't let that happen. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u14	I'm in a proper age rush. I wanted to ask Mr Faltýnek, Mr President - I apologize for this, I do not understand it, but you said that she has multiplied twenty times... [[Member Faltynek responds from his place off the microphone.]] And you can do that by picking mushrooms, raspberries, or harvesting wood? That's what I'd like to know. It seems to me that in the woods you can only harvest wood, so 20 times more often they mine, which I'd like to know. I'm asking without tricks, I'm just curious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Martínek, then Mr Faltýnek, with a point of fact, is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u16	I am merely referring to the most frequent reminder mentioned by colleague Kalous about the annulment of the election. In this current proposal, what you have at your disposal, we also mention that the rights acquired in good faith are not violated. So we think that this would not be justified, but even because of the legal certainty of everyone, we are able to adjust it so that the nullity of the election will be only if the committee does not give a recommendation opinion, which would be a clear point to say that, in this case, yes, in this case, no, and there would be no legal doubt as to when the nomination would be challenged. I think this would be the solution, and that is what we could put in a comprehensive amendment with other comments that we could discuss at second reading if you allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Faltýnek's factual remark, then with priority rights, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u18	He cares for the proper caregivers, Mr. Colleague. And if you are interested, next week on Wednesday there is an agricultural committee, you are a member who will deal in detail with the problem of bark and calamity and we can invite Tomáš Vrba as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Forests of the Czech Republic and also the Director of the Municipal Forests in Prostějov to give his opinion on the calamity of the bark and how they managed it in Prostějov and what the care of the proper economy specifically means. It is the cultivation of seedlings, seed production, seed collection, selling these matters to all possible operators on the market, etc. etc. So it's a proper caretaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, with the Prime Minister's right of priority, and I will ask for a replacement after his speech, I also want to respond with a factual point. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to comment on the proposal for a government. The Government discussed this proposal at its meeting on 18 April 2018, assessing this proposal and disagreed with it, in particular for these reasons. We, of course, consider it appropriate and necessary to ensure greater transparency and improvement and unification of the procedure of ministries in the area of nomination of persons in state-owned enterprises or legal entities with state-owned participation, but Mr Michálek forgot - I do not know whether he deliberately or did not study it - that I, as Minister of Finance, submitted this law. I submitted it and the position of the LRV on it was dated 3 April 2017. There were various reservations as to whether it was even a law, if what the previous government had introduced was not enough. [[12.10 hours]] I think the last government introduced the committee and it worked well. And I don't really have the information about the newsrooms, the newsrooms, the scandals. I'm sure I'll make a very detailed statement on this. So, on April 5, 2017, the government voted, six ministers of our movement were in favour and nine members of the government abstained, thus failing to pass the proposal. So it's not true that we don't deal with it. I think the committee worked, it worked transparently. There were experts, there was a lady in our movement who did, I don't know, about 20 years of headhunter, so I think she understands. The committee, of course - it was background, because if there's a problem at the firm, who are they gonna ask? Well, the minister, he's responsible for the nomination and the company. So, on that proposal, we stated that the design of § 20 of the draft law provides for the annulment of the choice or appointment of a person in failure to comply with the nomination procedure under the proposed law can be considered to be very problematic in the Government's view, since it introduces invalidity even if the State merely nominates its representative and the choice takes place in the bodies of the legal person in question, in which the State does not have to be a majority shareholder or shareholder. The Government considers that such a provision would, in particular, constitute an inadmissible interference with trading companies in order to regulate their operation and would also give rise to their unequal position vis-à-vis other trading companies in which the State does not actually have a holding. The commercial company could not in any way influence whether the State, as shareholder, complied with the law procedure, but would still be sanctioned for its actions by a possible annulment of the election of a member of its body. For the next one. The Government does not agree that the opinion of the Personnel Nomination Committee, as introduced by the draft law, should be binding and not merely recommending. The Committee is set up as an advisory body of the Government and its functions are repeatedly stated in the text of the explanatory memorandum. However, by virtue of its recommendation or not recommending persons for appointment or election to legal entities with a State's ownership, it would in fact become an authority which decides on such appointment or election, although the relevant ministries and ministers would therefore remain responsible for the functioning of legal persons with a State's ownership of their respective authorities, they would ultimately lose an important instrument to influence the functioning of those legal persons, which is the final decision on the selection of persons in their institutions. Such a provision could also constitute an intervention in the competences of individual members of the government. For the next one. The Government's draft law also does not reflect differences in the nature of certain legal entities that need to be taken into account in the selection of State representatives in their bodies. For example, this is the case. appointing representatives of the State to the administrative and supervisory boards of health insurance undertakings which have specific legislation, a specific way of managing funds and whose primary purpose is to carry out public health insurance and not to obtain profits. For example, the requirements for the performance of a member of a health insurance institution are therefore completely different from those of a member of an undertaking legal entity. Therefore, the Government does not consider it appropriate for persons appointed to health insurance bodies by the Government to be subject to a review of the eligibility in the same composition of the Committee, as is the case for other legal persons to whom the proposed law is to apply. In that case, according to the Government, it would be necessary for the Committee to be filled by experts with experience in the management and functioning of health insurance companies. Well, at the end of the day. In principle, the Government does not agree with the proposal for a second part of the bill submitted, which is governed by the so-called Act. State ownership policy, i.e. a document approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which should be binding on all state authorities, legal entities with State ownership, other organisations managing State property or State controlled or persons representing State in the management or control bodies of legal persons. Such a solution would be a significant intervention in the division of power to the detriment of executive power and would not correspond to the usual status of legislative power, its relationship to executive power. In view of the binding nature of the ownership policy declared in § 25 para. According to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, however, the Chamber of Deputies cannot issue this document. The proposed solution would thus be unbalanced, since the decision to set up a legal person or a share in the establishment or establishment of a state enterprise is conditional only on the approval of the government, whereas the Chamber of Deputies would decide on the details of the operation of such entities if the proposal had been adopted. And now to practice. So if this were working under our government - and I repeat again, I do not know that the former government was dealing with any news outlets, that there would be any scandals, I think that even in terms of remuneration, the previous government was trying to unify, and certainly compared mainly with Prague companies, we were very good at it. Consider a specific example of OKD. If this law were to apply, OKD is already dead, because it would be discussed here - how much? A year, a year and a half. And we saved it OKD, we bought it OKD for 70 miles. Crowns. Prisko, a subsidiary of the Ministry of Finance. OKD, which restructured the Paskov mine and which today is looking for 270 new employees. And I made this transaction as Minister of Finance. And, of course, it's important for someone to be responsible. And if we were discussing this, we would never have done it. Today we may have Mittal on our table, that by decision of the European Commission Arcelor or the Mittal family is selling ArcelorMittal, and hopefully there will be some serious buyers to buy the company. But if it didn't happen and it was threatened, we probably have nothing left to worry about, and we're watching the process. Mr Michálek's comment. Mr. Augustin is the director of the office, and I think it's completely irrelevant where he was and wasn't. It is a committee that discusses the proposals on the basis of proposals from ministers. What would it look like when we were saving Thermal, which no one actually touched, and we had to raise the equity by 300 miles.? Is that what the Chamber of Deputies would be dealing with? I don't see how this could work. So your speech that our country's fate is in danger, and I don't know what, it certainly isn't. During my era as Minister of Finance, I am a man who has historically experience in managing companies, with shopping and selling, so we saved ČSA by the way. Try asking the unionists. I don't know how we'd handle this. Or Aeroholding, no one's doing business there for four billion. with land, or the Director-General does not have a one-off remuneration of 300 million. And now we're merging Aeroholding with the airport. Should the House deal with that, too? I don't see why she should. Chevron, MERO - there has never been any nominee from any political party or movement. So I don't think it's necessary to put us in a situation where we want to do something unfair here. I think that this government is doing a transparent tender without confidence, we do, even for a board member we did in ČEPS or now at the post office etc. So we behave very transparently, and we do not realize or want to implement any of the tobacco shops. [[12.20 hours]] So I can say yes for the government, Mr. Michálek and I discussed this point before we discussed it. And we certainly say: we will put forward our proposal, a proposal from the government, where we will take these comments into account. There's no problem with the government discussing this by the end of June 2018, which means the law was on the table within a month. And, of course, we're in a position to... We don't have a problem making a tender for the head of the firm, the CEO, yes, but making a tender for the Supervisory Board to overwhelm the bureaucracy even more of our system - like why? It's the minister's responsibility. He's nominated, the HR committee is discussing it, checking these people, see if they have the prerequisites to sit there, of course, to keep an eye on the state's interest. And I'm sure that's what we want, but those are the things that... We have a different opinion about that, and our policy has always been in the past... We didn't privatize anything, nor do we intend to privatize anything. Not in this government, not in the past. But of course the state also has minority shares, for example in the company KORADO, or we have some unfortunate paper mill in Slovenia, which we somehow inherited from the National Property Fund and which we have been trying to sell unsuccessfully for a long time. I don't understand why these things should be dealt with here and wait a year and a half after, or how long until everyone says so. It's the government's responsibility, it's always been that way. And I'm sure we want people to be chosen transparently, and we'll definitely do that. And we're gonna submit our version, or we're gonna dust off the version we submitted in 2017. And I talked to my colleagues, so we're gonna try to bring it to the government by the end of June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u21	I thank the Prime Minister and ask for a replacement because I have made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u22	Good noon, I ask Vice-President Filip to make his point of order. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u23	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to speak with a longer speech on this matter, but I will not do so, I will limit myself to a factual point. The bill confuses concepts with impressions. Cleaning the eyes of the population. It knits together political traders and state property rights, i.e. the state's behaviour as the owner of economic entities. Either in the Czech Republic or in parliamentary democracy the principle of free competition between political parties applies, and those political parties are responsible not only for the establishment of a system of constitutional institutions, the Houses, the Senate, governments, the creation of a judicial system, and then they also have to be responsible for the functioning of the state in the economy, and then they must have the right to have political parties in those enterprises. There's just no other way. Or do you want people from the nonprofit sector who are not elected to take responsibility for this responsibility, perhaps even from taxes or from quasi-tax paid by journalists or other people from the nonprofit sector who are not elected, have no responsibility, no one can replace them in four years or in an extraordinary election? And they're gonna talk about who we're gonna nominate? We probably wouldn't be able to do our part, for which various people voted for us in this House for various reasons. Either the principle of free competition between political parties applies, and then political parties have the right to be represented in the administrative and supervisory boards of those businesses, as they have the right in the General Health Insurance Corporation, or they do not have the right, but then we cannot bear the responsibility that people require of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u24	Thank you for keeping time. Now please, with Mr Michálek's factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u25	I think we have a problem here that the two leaders of the new coalition, Prime Minister Babiš and Vice-President Filip, will disagree in the basic ground. Mr Babiš tells us that companies are not allowed to run politicians, and then Filip tells us that political parties have the right to operate in state firms. Well, I think the new coalition should clear it up. And on top of what President Babiš said, the committee worked transparently. Then again, I do not understand why the report you submitted to the government said that it was not transparent and formal. You guys should get this straight again. As far as the requirements are concerned, it was said here in the speech that it cannot be applied to the VZP, so, of course, every company is different, and that is why it is suggested that these people be selected primarily in a selection procedure through some selection committee, and only to go to the nomination committee, which will judge some, let's say, common part of the type, so that people who are in conflict of interest, who are relatively for serious reasons untrustworthy, because they need to be criminally prosecuted and so on. So from this point of view, I think it's right that this applies to health insurance companies as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u26	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Tomáš Martínek, I will read two apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Rakušan apologizes from 11.45 to 12.45 hours for working reasons and Mrs Levová from 12 to 15 hours. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u27	I'd like to respond to the Prime Minister. Once again, of course, we want to discuss the comments in the context of the second reading, which can also help the possible government proposal, which I am glad that it has now been mentioned that if this law does not or will continue with problems, the government will submit its proposal. But even as I mentioned it, or the Prime Minister mentioned that there was a problem procedure under the law, I already blew it here in the last remark that the company would be able to verify it because it would no longer be tied to the procedure, but it would only be linked to the recommendation position that will be displayed on the web, so it will really just be yes or no. The HR committee, it's appointed by the government. Nomination... The entire selection procedure is handled by the relevant Ministry, so the Personnel Committee only confirms that the person recommended by the Ministry has sufficient competence to perform the function. If that were not the case, it would, of course, have to justify this substantially. So even from this point of view, the responsibility is still with the government. At any time she can announce a new tender, in a time crisis situation she can appoint someone else without a tender. Even the law remembers that. Just to be clear. Once again, I suggest extending the 20-day time limit in the committees so that these comments can be discussed so that they can help create a quality law, whether from our pen or from the government's pen, within the framework of, for example, amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u28	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Staněk's point of fact, then Mr Kubíček. Before I give the floor to my colleague Staňek, there have been further apologies, Mrs Balaštíková from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Juchelka from 11.45 to 15 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Čižinský from 16.45 o'clock for working reasons and from 14.30 to 18 o'clock Mr Tomáš Hanzel. Now, a colleague of Staněk's, please. Pavel Staněk, yes. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u29	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to take the liberty of responding briefly to Mr Michálek's comment by means of you. My role in the city of Brno was like an architect of the group that founded the city, and there are nine companies that employ over 5,000 people. And we were dealing with this exact thing that was going on here a while ago. This means clarifying the position of the owner, clarifying the position of ownership policy, clarifying the nominations of individual executive or executive members, if you want, within individual companies. And these two things really don't meet on one pile, they are clarified, and they need to be clearly defined, both in the context of what the Prime Minister said, and in the context of what President Filip said, these things are clearly defined. And what we're trying to do here today doesn't fit the needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u30	I thank Mr Staňek. And now, Mr Kubíček, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I clearly understood the Prime Minister's speech and the President of the KSČM. Because let us not confuse the concepts of governing bodies, that is to say about the board of directors referred to by the Prime Minister and the supervisory boards referred to by the President of the KSČM. And there's a big and significant difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u32	Thank you. Now, Mr Lipavský, also with a factual remark. So far, the final point of fact, Mr. Jurečka will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. For me, it really was the eyes opening up speech that said that political parties had to work in state firms. I must say, then, that there is a real confession to nepotism and the way in which current political parties imagine that it should be ruled. No, it's not like that, of course. To some extent, political power must have that supervision over these companies, it must give them assignments, it must lead them somewhere. But the management needs to be professional and not based on the fact that I'm a good friend with someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u34	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Plzák, with a factual remark. I'm sure Jurečka's colleague is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u35	Thank you, Mr President. A really specific factual point. Nepotism is the promotion and promotion of family members into office, you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u36	Well, thank you, colleague Plzák. Another colleague of Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u37	Yes, they're political families.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u38	There. I'm lucky I can't respond. A colleague of Staněk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u39	Thank you, it won't give me a chance not to fight back. Because what is happening here right now is a populist debate that confuses concepts with impressions and simply has nothing to do with the nominations of people in management positions or the need of the owner in the case of a state or other public body to define ownership policy and to bear responsibility for fulfilling this ownership policy. So please, let's not bring populism here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u40	I thank my colleague Staňek for keeping time on the point of fact and for the real point of fact. And now, Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. This is a proper application for a debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, allow me a few and my experience over the last four years and a few comments on the draft of this nomination law. As a government, we have set up a committee on personnel nominations. I think it was the first step towards really setting up transparent systems for selecting people into these advices. The fact that that step wasn't entirely 100% perfect, I think we can admit, to some degree, probably all of us who were there. That there's room to improve this system, I think it's true and obvious. I would like to respond to some of the moments that have been said here in the discussion. On the one hand, I think that the sentence of Vice-President of the House, President of the KSČM, will go into history. Because I think that's a really interesting statement about how communists are supposed to work in state firms. But I don't want to lead the controversy here right now so I don't get accused of being a populist, but I'm gonna stick to the substance. It was said here that the Chamber of Deputies should not interfere with the nominations of supervisory councils at state companies or companies with semi-state participation. I would like to remind you that some laws remember that, and we are doing it today. We vote for members of the Supervisory Board, at the Board of Directors, we vote for members of the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, and we would probably find in other laws, where everywhere The Chamber of Deputies is joining the leading or managing bodies of state or semi-state companies. So it's nothing that's new. That's the first point. Mr. Chairman of the Michálek parliamentary club mentioned here the nomination of Tomáš Vrba to the Supervisory Council of the Forests of the Czech Republic. I will comment on this because I signed his name and appointed him to this position in which he is, and I wouldn't have done it if this person hadn't really had a professional experience. And what was mentioned here was that he worked in a company that subsequently ended up in insolvency, and there is a legal dispute with the Forests of the Czech Republic... I think each of us worked at some firm, or I assume most of us worked after school at the firm. And maybe it's not my fault how the fate of the company I worked in ten years ago and how it's gonna end. And look at Google or Wikipedia and use that argument, I just don't think it's fair. And I think that even if Tomáš Vrba was nominated today for a party that is against me, or I am opposed to her, I simply stand up for his expertise as a minister at the time. Then I would like to define myself to the concept of political trading. I think there's really a lot to distinguish between here and here. I'll use two examples for KDU-ČSL here. For example, we nominated for the bodies of the Public Health Insurance Company Zuzana Roithová, a politician who was in the European Parliament. But she's a doctor who ran a hospital in the Royal Vinohrady before. It's a political newsstand, isn't it? Well, I don't think it's a political newsstand. And sometimes I feel like it's getting awfully simple, and it's said that every politician who's been appointed has gotten it as a newsstand. Well, if he understands something, if he's done it in his life, he's qualified, and he's just a person who's fair, transparent, then there's no problem with that. Anyway, about the proposal that's here. I think he deserves to be released for second reading. I think there's a lot of things we can do on this proposal. I can argue to be even more specific, for example, about why a member of that committee is supposed to have a minimum age limit of 25 years when Members are 21 years old. Why does anyone who's supposed to be nominated have a minimum of 30 years and so on? Let us remember, for example, the Austrian Foreign Minister, today's chancellor, who joined as Foreign Minister, if I'm not mistaken, at the age of 28. I don't think such boundaries need to be most fortunately set, but let's discuss it. And I will follow up on what Prime Minister Babiš said here - that the government wants its proposal by the end of June. Why don't we use this proposal for second reading, extend the deadline as it was said here, and use it as a carrier, and the government proposal in those parameters on which there will be agreement will be implemented into this bill? I don't see anything in this that we shouldn't support because it makes sense. In the past, this House has done the same thing. In some cases, the former coalition, where I was a member of the government, did so in the past. The last thing I won't forgive to mention here is that when the Prime Minister here was so patronizing himself with transparency, professionalism and the like, I'd like to remind you that this is a thing that is, of course, pretty, God-loving, but there is a problem with how this government progresses without trust in demise in dismissing these people. And often they're really people that we can definitely say are people without any political nomination. And the changes the government makes at ministries, 14 deputy ministers, 14 sections. I can say for the Department of Agriculture that it's five months since the changes have been made, and the new Deputys aren't. For five months, part of the ministry just can't function properly, because there aren't people who would understand the issue well enough. It's a case of many other resorts. People from institutions, research institutes, where a member of the government calls off the person and doesn't say one single reason. If that reason were to sound at least, the word, "lost of trust." But even the reason doesn't ring a bell. That's what I think is something that just isn't standard. And when this government says it wants to be professional, it wants to be transparent, so the members of the government should learn to behave like this, and they should also properly justify the personnel steps they are doing to the Chamber of Deputies, to the public, to the voters. And that's not happening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u42	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Now one factual point by Mr Tomáš Martínek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u43	I'm just refilling. I agree. And here the proposal actually counts on the fact that if this person is really an expert, whether politician or not, and he goes through that committee, that means, of course, that he's supposed to be on the board. That's why the HR committee is supposed to assess whether any person who goes there, whether he's a politician or a non-politician, really has competence to perform that function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u44	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, Mr. Ferjenčík. Unlimited time, but seven minutes, because we have a firm decision to place another point at 12.45, my colleague. I'm warning you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u45	Thanks for the heads-up. We in this House are so distraught that the opposition will come up with a proposal, a government with the support of the Communists and the SPD will smash it, and two months later it will re-submit it itself. Exchanges, watermen are coming, now nomination law. I'm just waiting for YES to submit its own version of the smoke reduction law in restaurants. I think it's coming. [[12.40 hours]] Anyway, why doesn't YES want the nomination law at this point? Well, let's see how the government comes out, where they were working for the Communists in state firms to support the coalition. We don't even have a program here! You'd expect the Communists to insist on sector tax, progressive taxation. What they said after the election was their fundamental bargaining priorities. But then they settled for 150 places in state firms, so logically they boycott this law. I'm pretty disappointed in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u46	Well, thank you. We still have... if a colleague of Lipavský lasts five minutes, he has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u47	I'll be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, our party has gone to the Chamber of Deputies as an anti-corruption party, and it turns out that, somehow across the political spectrum, there is no interest in dealing with corruption. Yesterday we proposed a vote on ČEZ, rejected by a large majority. The point hasn't been included. With a large gnashing of teeth yesterday, we prevented a completely absurd amendment to the property returns bill. And it was a great struggle to explain at all that hiding some information makes no sense. And today we're talking about the nomination law. So I would like to ask the Members present to vote in favour of this proposal so that they allow it to be read again and we can talk calmly in the committees about it, because some of the complaints I certainly recognize are relevant, so let us work them out and then approve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u48	Thank you. Mr Michálek's point of view is now still in fact. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to see my colleague Staňek for a short time. I wanted to commend what the ANO movement did in Brno. The fact that they put together Brno City's own policy. That's exactly the right procedure. And being approved by the council, that's also the right procedure. And the fact that the council has reserved itself to approve certain, let's say, major property operations, I think here in the article. 4.10 The Declaration of Group Interest is written about the accumulated value of CZK 50 million. That's also the right procedure. The only thing we're trying to do here is to do the same thing here as representatives of the state, so that the Chamber of Deputies would approve the fundamental principles, the legislature, just as they were approved by the city council of Brno. We are also trying to set up control mechanisms similar to those set by the city council of Brno. It's the exact same thing, except in the exercise of state power. Today, the stock companies are completely out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u50	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And we have two minutes. I ask, therefore, is interested in the final words, because I have no application for debate. There's no interest in the final... The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u51	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna try to be short and not use the two minutes we have left until the end of time. We have heard the proposals that have been made here, I assume that they will be repeated in a detailed debate, in other words an extension of the deadline for 20 days. And we have heard the Government's statement here that the government has rejected this bill, with some promise from the work on the government proposal, which should remove the flaws raised in the proposal to the MPs, which we are discussing here. From the rapporteur's point of view, I really have a problem with the fact that the petitioners are now declaring that the law they are submitting will want to redo the comprehensive amendment in the second reading. I consider that a bit of a problem. If this were to appear as a problem of second reading, that they wanted an amendment, I would understand it, but at first reading, when discussing the benefits of this law to the House, ask Members to let the imperfect thing go into second reading, that then we will only redo it, I consider it wrong, because this is how we could all Members come up with bills, one-worded, and say: let us do it in second reading, so we will do it all in the same way as we wish and as we wish and as we agree. This is not how I imagine preparing an appropriate law, especially when it raises these problems, as the previous speakers have said. So on my part, I have a big problem with this as rapporteur. As rapporteur to you, colleagues and colleagues, I cannot recommend voting in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-007-038.u52	Thank you. I still have Mr Staněk's application, but I can no longer use it because, according to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, we will be dealing with electoral points at 12.45. I interrupt this point with the fact that we are before discussing the motion to reject the bill or the commandment. So I'm interrupting point 38 and we're going to be dealing with election points. I will ask the President of the Election Commission to give us point 93 first. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
