ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-019-043.u1	43. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification The Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Ghana on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes and profits from the disposal of property and the Protocol to it signed in Accra on 11 April 2017 /German press 95/ - First reading The proposal submitted will be presented by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-019-043.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to express its agreement to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Ghana on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes and the profits of the disposal of property and the Protocol to it signed in Accra on 11 April 2017. [[16.50 hours]] In order to reduce the tax burden on taxpayers and to exclude international double taxation, which takes place without tax agreements in international economic, commercial and cultural relations and which is the cause of a conflict of national tax laws, bilateral double taxation agreements are common among countries. There is currently no contractual relationship between the Czech Republic and Ghana in mutual tax relations. The negotiated contract does not replace the national tax rules of the Contracting States and cannot thus create a new tax obligation but only the obligation arising from national rules. It regulates and contributes to an objective distribution of the right to tax on individual types of income between the two States, that is between the State of the source of income and the State of its beneficiary. The double taxation treaty, which is now proposed in the relations between the Czech Republic and Ghana, was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, and, of course, also responds to the internal tax regulations of both countries. The negotiation of this double taxation treaty will increase legal certainty of potential investors of both states and will certainly open up room for other Czech business entities, thus helping to develop mutual economic relations. This is a comprehensive tax contract covering the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income, as well as the standard regulation of basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both countries, as well as the principle of non-discrimination, informal resolution of disputes arising from its implementation, and at the same time ensuring the relevant exchange of information between the competent authorities of both countries. An integral part of the contract is also a protocol that contains the highest benefit clause in favour of the Czech Republic in case Ghana negotiates a more favourable regime with a third State in the context of provisions dealing with the taxation of income from the provision of technical, advisory and managerial services than that contained in this contract. So let me conclude by suggesting that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic order this treaty to the relevant House Committees for a more detailed discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-019-043.u3	Thank you, Minister. It was originally designated as rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Kobza, who is, of course, excused. So the rapporteur for the first reading will be Mr Jaroslav Holík. This change must be voted on. So, once again, I will call the Members to the Chamber and we will vote on whether we agree to replace Mr Jaroslav Holík, who is duly excused, as rapporteur. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, raise your hand and press the button. Voting number 140, 154 Members registered, for 135, against one. The result is that the proposal was accepted. I ask that the rapporteur, Mr Jaroslav Holík, take the floor for the first reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-019-043.u4	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, double taxation affects the taxpayer twice, thereby reducing its potential income and, at the same time, reducing its competitiveness. This is particularly the case if someone is doing business abroad, when the taxpayer must tax profits abroad and also in the mother republic. The Czech Republic has a double taxation treaty with a vast majority of countries. In the African Republic, Ghana will be after Egypt, Ethiopia, South Africa, Morocco, Nigeria and Tunisia another African country to which the Czech Republic has negotiated a treaty. [[?!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this treaty is fully compatible with the Constitution of the Czech Republic and there is no contradiction with European law. It also does not affect obligations with other international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. The conclusion of this Treaty will have no impact on the state budget. For this reason, I recommend the release for second reading, and as a guarantee committee, I propose foreign.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-019-043.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. I'm going to see if we have anyone enrolled in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate and I'm asking the Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová? He's not interested in the final word. Mr Jaroslav Holík, rapporteur, is not interested in the final word. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, and I am asking if anyone else has a proposal. I can't see, so I'm gonna go on, because we're gonna take the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote now. Please press the button and raise your hand. Who is against, please press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 141, 154 Members signed in for 132, versus zero. The result was accepted. So I'm saying that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee, and this concludes the discussion of this point. We're going to go to the next point and that's
