ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u1	32. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /house print 120/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Jaroslava Němcová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will present the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a bill containing two major measures in the field of pension insurance, which is also the implementation of the Government's programming declaration. The first measure concerns the basic pension ratio and consists in increasing this ratio from 9 per cent of the average wage to 10 per cent of the average wage. This increase in the basic exchange of pensions will concern all pensions, i.e. both newly granted pensions and pensions paid. The purpose of this measure is to contribute to the improvement of the standard of living of all pension beneficiaries, as all pensions will be increased by 1% of the average wage. In the case of an increase in paid pensions, it is necessary to draw attention to the transitional provision contained in Article 2 (1) of the draft law, the purpose of which is to increase pensions in January 2019, i.e. on the first increase under the new rules, ensure that there is no adverse effect on the part of senior pensioners. The second measure proposed concerns pensioners who have reached the age of 85 and consists in increasing their pension percentage by CZK 1 000 per month. If the pensioner receives more pensions, the percentage of the old-age pension will thus be increased. The transitional provision ensures that an increase of CZK 1000 is granted to pensioners who have reached the age of 85 years before the date of application of the proposed measure, i.e. before 1 January 2019. In this case, the pension will be increased by CZK 1000 per month from the repayment of the pension due in January 2019 without an application. The purpose of this measure is to strengthen the standard of living of the oldest citizens, who generally have increased claims relating to old age, in particular as regards social and health services, and, given their age, cannot increase their income by earning a profit. I beg your support for the proposed bill, which will concern all pensioners and will increase their income. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u3	I thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Bauer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u4	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to follow up on the Minister and add, possibly recalling the way forward of this proposal. As has been said, the proposed amendment contains two parts. First, it raises the basic income from the current 9 per cent average wage to 10 per cent, and second, it raises by a thousand grand the pensions to people who have crossed the age of 85. The proposed measures will cover both newly awarded pensioners and those already paid to them. The increase in basic pensions and pensions of people over 85 years of age is proposed beyond regular valorisation of pensions. The new adjusted pension calculation framework will help relatively more those who receive low pensions. Perhaps surprisingly quickly, the explanatory report deals with the calculation of the impact that the proposed solutions will have on the state budget. Here I would like to remind you that in 2019 alone, according to the explanatory report, the impact of the first measure will be approximately an additional 12 billion and expenditure will increase in the coming years. Increase in pensions among the oldest seniors, i.e. over 85 years, in 2019 it will require a cost of 2.2 billion. CZK and these expenditures will increase logically in the following years due to demographic developments. Finally, the Ministry of Finance itself notes the high demands on the expenditure side of the state budget, which has already been expressed on the submitted amendment in the past. According to him, the proposal increases the mandatory expenditure not only in a short period, but also in a longer period with long-term impacts on the public finances of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth recalling that the proposed amendment has undergone only a short notice procedure which took only six days from the decision of the Prime Minister's President of 30 January this year. At the same time, the President of the Government's Legislative Council agreed that an assessment of the effects of RIA regulation had not been carried out on the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the proposal tabled does not constitute any conceptual material offering a permanent framework for the development and increase of pensions in the coming years, nor does it provide a solution for the payment of pensions to future generations. There is no reform, but only partial intervention in the pension system. Therefore, if you decide to release this proposal to second reading, we and you will certainly have a lively debate, in particular whether this proposal is inadequately reducing the principle of merit in the payment of pensions at the expense of those who have worked and paid a higher amount to pension insurance, as well as the debate on the impact of the proposed measures on the state budget. I would also like to remind you that the Organising Committee has proposed a Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. If there is a proposal to assign the press to other committees during the following debate, e.g. the Committee on Budgets, so I am prepared to support such a proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate and Vice-President Okamura will be the first to speak in a general debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, first of all, let me say that the increase in SPD pensions has been a long-term promoter, and we will always support it in the future, and it will be our priority. That is why we will always support proposals to increase it. We are glad that people will finally increase their pensions significantly and that there is such a proposal and it looks like it will have majority support from other parties as well. Men have a government retirement pension of 22 percent on average, since the average monthly retirement pension of men for the first quarter of this year was CZK 13,011, while the average monthly pension of women is CZK 10,707. Like the average wage on the average pension, almost two thirds of the population will not reach. [[10.30 hours]] An increase of a thousand crowns is a very good step, but in fact, less than 200,000 people are affected, of which more than two thirds are women, so their pensions are still catastrophically low, mostly under 10,000. Nowadays, neither the average pension nor the below-average pension increased by a thousand is enough to live in Prague, but probably not enough to live in Brno. I know that the Demagog block gentlemen blame the elderly for eating through the Republic and their pensions. Mr Kalousek and his stick must not forget that it was these pensioners who built companies such as Zetor, and from their earnings the state financed pensions. And then, in quotes, our demagogues wouldn't allow seniors or workers to eat, but they helped rob them, and the state would take their income from today's pensions from those they robbed. Of course, some of the other politicians would like to put old people in some senior home, because they think that apartments in Prague deserve mainly offices and rich people, but you usually get a home for seniors outside Prague and Prague for 10,000 or more, up to a legal limit of less than CZK 12,000 a month. Ladies and gentlemen, one-third of the elderly are poor enough for this. Gender-progressive multiculturalists should know that the vast majority of people who live in the greatest poverty are women. The problem of low pensions is not solved by ad hoc changes in the moments when some government needs retired votes, so it throws in an extra hundred. Pensions need systemic change, but not a game of change that has been demonstrated for years by virtually all government parties, including the ANO movement. Retirement is something the state provides for old and helpless people from poverty. The state must ensure a decent life for even the poorest. The aim of the SPD is to introduce a minimum decent pension that would be tied to the minimum wage, so this year would be a minimum of CZK 12,200 per month, and which will allow people to actually pay at least a home for seniors, if not a proper rent, and they must also have some crown left for private life. We will, of course, support the proposed amendment, but we will not take it as a solution at all, but only as a patch until, I believe, we quickly prepare real systemic changes. The debate on systemic changes should also include the promotion and support of the family. For example, in prison, we have hundreds of child supporters who aren't really fathers of children to pay for or fathers to rob of children that they don't often see for years. This is a sad statistic. But sadder still, somewhere alone in poverty today and daily, the lives of parents who are not cared for by the children that these old women and old women have fed for many years are dying. In short, part of the reform, that means worrying about our seniors, there must be a deeper reform than mathematics in calculating pensions. Among other things, we must support the family, one that raises hardworking, decent, and solidarity citizens who take care of themselves and respect their parents as well as their country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u7	Thank you. Let me read the apology. Mr Peksa and Mr Kopřiva apologize within 11 hours for reasons of work. With a point of fact, Mrs Dražilová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u8	Dear colleagues, because of the urgency of the time when the Government's bill under House press 120 is due to take effect on 1 September of this year, I propose that Paragraph 91 (2) of the Act be amended accordingly. The Rules of Procedure shall reduce the time limit for the discussion of this press in committees by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u9	Thank you. I noted your proposal. And now we will continue the debate. Mr Bauer is the first to sign up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in addition to the report, to present briefly the opinion of the Civic Democratic Party MEP. I would like to say that the new model for raising pensions is proposed by the government without confidence, yet we are ready to talk about this proposal and we are ready to release it for second reading. We believe that seniors are also to benefit from economic growth, and with this conviction we have also approached our own proposals, which we are among others. They also submitted during the previous parliamentary term. However, this proposal is only a partial correction of the existing pension scheme. There is in no way any reform and change to address the pension system as a whole and its uncertain future. I must say that under normal circumstances I would not expect a new government to appear before the House within a few months with a pension reform plan, because such a reform cannot be prepared within a few weeks or months, but the current government is not new in any way, it is headed by several years by the Minister of Finance and former Vice-President of the Government of the Czech Republic. And it was his government, which, in the last parliamentary term, abolished the ongoing pension reform and which, I would point out, promised a replacement for her, which has not yet arrived. You know, ladies and gentlemen, we can or maybe you can think and have a thousand and one comment on what changes in the pension system prepared by the former government in 2012 looked like. In my opinion, however, it was the only honest, successful attempt at reform in the history of the Czech Republic so far, which gave at least some certainty to future generations. The government in which Andrej Babiš sat canceled this reform and instead offered nothing to the citizens of the Czech Republic. As with other topics, I believe, the YES movement has remained only for words, and pension reform has not yet begun to prepare. If I wanted to summarize this from the point of view of the Civil Democratic Party, it is right that, at a time when the country is economically benefiting, it is better for seniors who are dependent on their pensions, but it is fatally wrong for the government not to care about how young people today will live as pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next up, Mr Kaňkovský is enrolled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u12	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the present proposal for a law on pension insurance will support KDU-ČSL for further legislative process. As has already been said here from the mouth of my previous speakers, we also believe that Czech seniors would clearly deserve and deserve the good economic condition of the Czech Republic to be reflected in the amount of their pensions. And while Vice-President Okamura, as usual, has been trying to put us somewhere else through Mr President, I am not offended at all. He likes to play with words. But I have to say, as far as the support of seniors is concerned, it is a consensus, because it really should be a priority for the government and the House at any time and in any composition, all the more so when the economy thrives. As has already been said here, the parameters of this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act do not come with any reform. And it would also be weird, because in such a short period of time, pension reform certainly cannot be prepared. So the basic parameters have already been expressed here. This is an increase in the basic pension ratio from 9 per cent of the average wage to 10 per cent of the average wage, plus an increase of CZK 1 000 per month for pensioners who have reached the age of 85 and two thousand per month for pensioners who have reached the age of 100. This has already been said. Both of these measures clearly support KDU-ČSL, but we believe that precisely because the Czech economy is in good shape, the government's measures towards seniors, i.e. in this particular case their pensions, are insufficient. In addition, it should be recalled that it was KDU-ČSL that, together with the ČSSD, fought in the previous government for faster growth in pensions, and it was the current government movement YES, which blocked faster growth in pensions in several cases in the previous government. Yes, one minute after two failed government negotiations, the pension increase finally occurred and a great marketer, then the then Minister of Finance and today Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, immediately after the final meeting of the government to inform the citizens of the Czech Republic with great urgency that he, Andrej Babiš, had found the necessary funds to increase pensions in the role of the Minister of Finance. When it gave the impression that he had found them in his own cash register. He just forgot to add that he had refused to increase his pension twice at the government meeting and only the pressure of the coalition partners KDU-ČSL and ČSSD broke his resistance. [[10.40 hours]] The current government comes with the necessary but unfortunately only parametric changes in the pension field, without showing efforts to straighten out at least some of the negatives accompanying the Czech pension system. As I have already said here, it cannot be expected that much needed pension reform can be resolved in such a short period of time, but we believe that at least some partial steps should be taken by the government in our opinion. I mean, for example. the settlement of discrimination against women, which has also been mentioned here by Vice-President Okamura through the President. And I am thinking, in particular, of women who raised children, who will then be the ones who will actually produce pension insurance in the coming period. Discriminating women who raised children is in many respects, whether it concerns the basic pensions, but there are other related problems. It's for example. the length of the replacement and excluded period at the birth of the child, the length of compulsory periods of insurance and any evaluation of motherhood and upbringing of children by the State. The state also does not properly evaluate persons - again more often women, and this needs to be stressed - who take care of a person close to you in the long term, especially when it is a disabled child. The changes would certainly deserve widow's pensions as well. For these reasons, we are ready to table our amendments in the legislative process, which would address at least some of the problems at the same time. I firmly believe that we can agree on changes that would help seniors not only parametrically across this Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u13	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová will be next in the debate. Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u14	Madam Speaker, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues. Well, there aren't many of us here to discuss this serious matter. I think that's quite a negative symbolism for the people we're talking about right now, because we're talking about 2.5 million people at least. But so be it. At least some of us stayed here brave. Let me also express my opinion on the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act and briefly summarize the reasons why it is unacceptable for TOP 09 to forget one of the basic principles on which the pension system stands in the Czech Republic, namely merit. This proposal, which may be very simple for many of us, because it is an increase from nine to ten percent of the figure, which looks like "we are changing one number, it is not so serious" but has a very serious impact on the calculation of pensions not only for the following year, but for the years to come. And it touches a really large number of those who receive pensions, and we are talking about only those who already have them. That hasn't come up yet. It is necessary to say and correct that when we increase the percentage and thus reduce by one percent the second part from which pensions are calculated and which is linked directly to the previous earnings of those insured persons, the persons concerned, and the subsequent valuation, which is from the law, will damage up to 60 percent of the beneficiaries, because they will therefore be calculated from a lower base. It is very simple, therefore, in this is the relentless valorisation mechanism, which is given by law and which, of course, is used no matter what kind of government is currently in control, and is linked to indicators such as inflation and wage growth. So, after this is put here in life, it needs to be said that our pensions will be more egalitarian, so they will be less dependent on how much you did at a working age, how much you were earning, and therefore on the levy. It will damage up to 60 percent of the recipients at such a moment. That's what needs to be said here. So as for the part that concerns the increase in people who are 85 years old and over, and then those who are 100 years old and over, we have no problem with that. But we certainly shouldn't talk about such partial changes here, especially when they are presented to us by a government that hasn't even earned confidence yet, but we should really try to find a solution, a recipe for pensions for the future, not just the pensions that we have now. Already today, the pension account is entering a regular deficit, which moves according to how efficient the economy is, but we will have a very big problem with pensions even in future years, because demographic developments in these matters are simply relentless. So, just as in the last parliamentary term, we regularly called on the then government not to stick its head in the sand and solve the problem that the World Bank and other organizations, such as the OECD, refer to as a time bomb, not just us as opposition, it is not a matter of political struggle, it is simply a matter of clear facts, so it is not done. We have only witnessed the cancellation of the previous reform. For four years we have witnessed the meeting of the pension committee, which was then led by Mr Potůček and which came only with really partial minor changes, but not with really seriously intended reform, and in the very end it was crowned by the fact that The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has therefore begun to use the study that there is no need for reform, that our pension system, as set up today as an ongoing system, can handle it. I think it not only contradicts all the statements I have spoken about, but it also contradicts how demographic developments are really evolving, and the facts that we are actually familiar with here in the explanatory report, by the way, because you can all look in there and see that we really have spending on pensions relative to GDP in the future - there is really a huge increase of up to 12 percent. This proposal, of course, makes it even deeper. But on the other hand, what I think is much more important to say today, and what I consider essential in this debate is that it really creates our pensions much more egalitarian, so it is contrary to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which he said a few years ago, I think it was in 2010 that we should focus on the principle of merit in our pensions, that we should take into account the number of insured persons involved, how much the pensioner has taken into the system at his active age, and that, on the contrary, we should strengthen the principle of merit. That's what they did back then. This was a small pension reform that preceded the large pension reform, which is mostly mentioned here. But actually, it's not good here to close your eyes to the fact that this proposal is actually going back to what has been criticized, and in its essence, it's really going to damage a lot of these people. That doesn't sound like the debate here, and I'm very sorry that, fairly speaking, this isn't even possible for the promoter to admit, because really people who are already retired and know that he's going to touch them this negatively in the future, so they write emails and say they just feel like they're hurting, that the system is actually set up more fairly against them today, and it's going to get more unfair. And I don't blame them at all for pointing that out. Because we mustn't keep forgetting that it's not just about trying to balance the pension as much as possible, but it's about trying to really have the system set up as just as possible and not just about solidarity, but also about merit. That's all I want to bring into this debate. I think that, of course, we should also look at other aspects that affect the pension system at all here, whether that is the case, to strengthen precisely the pro-family policy, to try to have more children born in this country, and we have already discussed this here with other proposals. But now I think it's time to comment, in particular, on what lies between us, many of us, or the rest of us, who are still here, on the table, and therefore discuss these specific parameters that the government wants to do here. [[10.50 hours]] I'm not suggesting rejection. Of course, we also want our pensioners to succeed, but I think, given that this proposal contains more than one thing, I will not propose this because of this one thing, but I think that we should talk very closely in the committees about what the real impact will be, not only one-time but also long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u15	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue with Mr Španěl's factual remark and then with further registration for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot do this; I must speak through Mr President on the speech by Mrs Pekarová, who has mentioned merit many times. Yes, merit is fine, but it is already taken into account in the pension. Valorization - what is valorization? That's a replacement for inflation, isn't it? And I'm sorry, the biggest injustice I've seen in Czech pensioners from all past governments has been a percentage valorisation. We have to add the same to all people, because the roll at the store is going to cost everyone the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u17	Thank you, Mr Španěl, for keeping time on the point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mrs Pekarová's further factual remark, I apologise to the President of the House of Commons from Mr Berkovec, who apologizes for reasons of work from 12 to 13 hours. Now, Mrs Pekarová Adamová's point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u18	To Mr. Speaker, by your means. Mr. Ambassador, if we treat this by adding exactly the same amount to everyone, we're completely crashing the entire system as it's built. He is actually built on the fact that if you have done more at a working age, then you should also be retired more. I think this is the basis as well as the motivation for you to try to have a higher income at a working age. But then we should be talking about the whole change in whether a single dose should be the same for everyone regardless of how much they made. Then, too, the contributions could not be graduated according to how much you were earning. That would be a completely different debate. Valorisation is certainly also taking into account inflation, but not only it, but of course half of the wage growth is now included there, so it was a third before, and it is supposed to try to maintain the standard of living of pension recipients so that they do not limp, or, as we say, better, for the rest of the population, for the rest of the population. It's not like we should make this system completely egalitarian. You can definitely submit it, you can have it as your legitimate proposal, you can think it too, but the system isn't set like that today. He's called insurance, and it looks like you're insure about something for the future, but it would probably be fairer to call it some kind of tax, because of what I'm doing today, what you and all the citizens who are working today are paying pensions not to us in the future, but to those who are already retired. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague of the Španěl also wants to respond with a factual point, so his party colleague will wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u20	I'm definitely not gonna stall. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to introduce an egalitarian system. That's not true. The amount of pensions and merit shall be taken into account in the own account. I repeat, on my own account. And valorization, I'm sorry, is a replacement for inflation and rising wages, otherwise it wouldn't make any sense. I repeat, all seniors are getting even more expensive. There's no more merit there. I agree, of course, that pension reform would be a good time, but I wanted to respond in this way only through the President to Mrs Pekarová, who gives us an equality system. That's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mrs Šafránková, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin by saying that an increase in pensions is necessary and, of course, we are promoting and supporting this increase in the long term. At the same time, however, a comprehensive pension reform is necessary, as the average age will continue to extend and the number of pensioners will increase. The SPD does not want to increase retirement age and wants to support young working families with children, because it is essential for the sustainability of the ongoing first pillar of the pension system to improve demographic development. We're paying for our parents' pension, and our children will pay for our pensions. Within the so-called second pillar, we want the state to support and guarantee individual pension savings for citizens. This individual savings should be protected from inflation and the state should guarantee a 1% appreciation. In the SPD, we want pensions to be based on two pillars, state and individual. We should also be aware that in the Czech Republic we have a large proportion of people who have pensions below CZK 10,000, and we should know one more fatal thing. At present, we have tens of thousands of businessmen who will have an extremely low assessment base, and their pension, if we don't make changes, will not be enough for a bill of electricity, let alone housing and food. And how are we doing compared to abroad? It is difficult to compare the nominal level because there are different costs in different countries, and this also applies to the Czech Republic. Ten grand in the country, when you have your house and your garden, it's not enough, but you'll survive. You only survive in a big city in a rental apartment if you have a partner and you have two pensions. The moment one of the partners dies, the other partner is basically an unsolvable social crisis. Pensions abroad to the west of us are higher and one of the reasons is that foreign firms that have invested with us export profits to our homes and from it are financed, among other things, higher wages and higher pensions. Thanks to the fact that we have become a montage Europe, we are also those who actually earn higher pensions for Němec or Francouz. So let us think about our parents, our parents, our grandparents, so that they can experience a dignified old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u23	Thank you, Mrs Šafránková. Mr Ferjenčík will now appear, Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, like all parties in this House, the pirát support the economic growth experienced by the Czech Republic to benefit from the pensioners, and for this reason we also support that law to move forward to its next reading. However, I would like to draw attention to the problem in the press. At this point, the government is proposing that the pension system, which is currently in a moderate surplus for a number of years primarily due to the very good economic situation of the Czech Republic, should return to a negative. And the minus is going to grow and according to the submitted material, it is going to reach minus 3,5 percent of gross domestic product in a few decades, i.e. about 175 billion. Crowns per year, which is simply not sustainable. We think it is necessary to address a situation where we have a pension system that will not be sustainable in the long term and we do not consider it sustainable for it to be financed purely from the taxation of work, as it is today. Today, every worker pays a few dozen percent of what he earns, especially in the pension system, but also in income tax, health insurance. The tax on work in our country is almost 50 percent in the upper middle class. The marginal rate is 48,6 %, which is slightly reduced by deductible items, but it is well over 40 percent for the middle class. Paradoxically, it is lower for oligarchs who have million-to-billion-dollar incomes, it falls there, and it is lower for poorer workers, but it is well over 40 percent for the upper middle class. [[11.00 hours]] In our view, it is unsustainable in this way to finance the pension system only from the income of labour at a time when the number of workers will fall and the percentage of pensioners will increase. So we should deal with this problem. One possible way to finance the pension system is to limit money leaks to tax havens. There is room for several tens of billion crowns a year that escape which could be used. We should strongly oppose tax havens within the European Union. Today, for example, Facebook or Google taxes in Ireland and do away with a fraction of what companies do with a comparable turnover on a given market in the Czech Republic, which is based with us. If you compare the taxes he pays the list and the taxes he pays on Facebook, that's heaven and bagpipes. That's what we should focus on. This means tax havens within the European Union of technology companies. We should focus on how money runs through companies with hidden owners to the Caribbean, right? We should focus on Cyprus, through which the money goes. So this is one way to look at the leaks. And in the long run, we have to deal with how we approach the digitization of society. We have to figure out how to get money from platforms located abroad, but they do business on our market. Typically Airbnb, Uber are now often mentioned in the media, but it is quite possible that the problem will spread to other segments. That even these companies have to somehow get a share of their profits on our market, otherwise the pension system will not really be sustainable. So the pirát recommend that we take the path of reducing labor taxation and finding ways to tax these leaks. And if we fail, despite what we would like, our pensioners will be in poverty in the future, because we will not be able to provide them with decent pensions from this job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u25	I thank Mr Ferjenčík and I will ask Mr Luzar to be patient because I will first load the apologies received by the President of the House and then have Mrs Schillerová's priority right. The Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga apologizes for the whole day, Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologizes from 13.45 to the end of the day for reasons of business travel and Mr Špičák from 13 o'clock for reasons of work. The Czech Finance Minister Alena Schillerová will now speak with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to respond briefly to the previous speaker because it's already on my agenda, so I'm sure it's time for me to respond to that. I'll take this one step at a time, in a nutshell. When it comes to taxing profits, making profits abroad, dividends, I'm going to repeat it a hundred times over, but I'm going to say it again. These are things that the Treasury considers to be an absolute priority. However, it is very important to distinguish what we are talking about. Firstly, it is the issuance of dividends which are from legally taxed profits in the territory of the Czech Republic. This means that the company here will tax the profits, take the dividend from it, and we can hardly prevent it from doing so. We have here a dividend directive that we are obliged to follow, and, of course, for certain... I won't tire you of the technical details. So within the European Union, we have an exemption and we have a 15% withholding tax on individuals. It's all legal. As a result, we were very successful, and in 2005 and 2006, when we introduced so-called investment incentives, we lured a huge amount of capital here, which created infrastructure here, employed people. Of course, the next topic would be what salaries, but this is not a topic that I would like to develop here at the moment. And, of course, they're generating profits here, the taxes, and they're taking out dividends. If we wanted to prevent it, we would have to consider other possible restrictions. And here we must very strongly separate so-called aggressive tax planning, and that is the thing that the Ministry of Finance is fighting very hard. I will bring here again very soon when it passes through the government, the so-called tax package, when we will implement, for example, another ATAD directive that fights these other consequences. We are very active, I dare say the most active - and we are very often blamed for this - in the implementation of all the European Union directives that are directed in the fight against aggressive tax planning. Moreover, we are not only satisfied with implementing and implementing these directives, but at the same time introducing our own measures. As early as 2015, the Financial Administration introduced an annex to the tax return, where companies are required - related to so-called connected persons, or transfer pricing - to introduce various transfers, and thus measured several billion-dollar housewives in this area, which either obtained their control activity or by submitting additional tax returns themselves, thus having a kind of preventive effect. Then there was a comment made by the so-called digital tax, which means that this is actually a discussion that is beginning to address the multinational Google companies. I was just starting the French-Czech Colloquium today and the French ambassador opened it because France came forward with this proposal, and we were very active in the debate. Yes, we see the problem, we also think that these platforms should tax more in the territory where they are actually carrying out this activity, and we want to, we have a positive position and we are having very active debates, which I also assured the ambassador of today's colloquium. There's been a lot going on here. Then the Uber area fell. We're in a shared economy again. We don't sleep there either. We're very active. We as the Czech Republic are even the countries that pushed through at the end of last year at the Council of Europe to start sharing data on a mandatory basis. Because we don't need to have debates in a shared economy today, if we need more legislation. We don't need her. We can tax rent, we can tax taxi service, but we have to define it as a taxi service, like if we're talking about Uber, that's what we defined, and we need data. So if the Financial Administration from Holland obtained data by 2015, it has very effectively launched a control activity on the territory of the Czech Republic and basically there is a confirmation if a breach of the tax obligation is found. And that's how we need it in basically all of these segments. That is why we pushed through this proposal on the Council of Europe last year. As far as Uber is concerned, just for your information, there was a meeting at the Prime Minister's level. I was a part of it, too. A number of things have been arranged, for example, that they will voluntarily join the EET because they fall into the third wave and it is actually postponed at the moment to share data with the Financial Administration so that the Financial Administration can effectively control the fulfilment of the tax obligations of these Uber drivers, and other measures. So we don't really sleep and believe that we are very, very intense in all these areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u27	Thank you, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. It brought up two factual points. First Mr Skopeček, then Mr Ferjenčík. Now, therefore, Mr Jan Skopeček's factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u28	Thank you. I'll respond to the dividends, I've already talked about it. It's really true. Only in 2017 there were 276 billion. in the context of dividends abroad. I also agree that this is simply the result of being too generous here to those wealthy corporations that, at the expense of our small taxpayers, our small entrepreneurs, received tax holidays and incentives from socialist governments for jobs to then import workers from other countries. [[11.10 hours]] However, I do not agree with what the Minister said, namely that the only way to prevent the dividend leak is through restrictions. That is absolutely not true, because at such a time we would, of course, reduce the influx of future investment in the Czech Republic, make our investment environment worse and become a less partner that would not be entirely suitable for future investment. I think that besides restrictions there is always the possibility of motivation, and even if it is a more complex task than to prepare restrictive tax laws, it should be the role of the Ministry of Finance, or economic ministers, to come up with such proposals that will create an economic environment in the Czech Republic that will motivate existing foreign business entities to reinvest as much as possible in the Czech Republic and not take them back to the Czech Republic. I know this is a much more challenging task, I know that the results are not visible from day to day or from year to year, but if we want to keep more in the Czech Republic, the greater share of the profits that foreign corporations are carrying out here, so I think it will not be possible by liberalizing our economy through any other way than by giving more motivation, creating other investment opportunities. After all, maybe the debate is just -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u29	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u30	- above the rate of taxation of the dividends. I'll say the rest on standard login. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u31	So, please, all colleagues who report to a factual remark to keep time. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u32	Thank you for the floor. I just want to clarify my idea of Uber and Airbnb. I was not primarily interested in individuals who do business in those segments, even though, of course, as pirát, we encourage Uber drivers as well as taxi drivers to pay taxes, as well as to people who run flats through Airbnb, to pay taxes on this rental as well as other people who rent apartments. But first of all, from that overall perspective, it was a question for me to make the platform tax the profit it would make out of the money it would get in the Czech Republic. That means I wanted to tax the platform primarily, not the taxation of individuals within the system. And while Uber or Airbnb seem to be collaborating on their clients paying taxes, they avoid paying taxes on their profits. And I think that's the big problem. The fact that Uber or Airbnb will have a castle company somewhere in Ireland, an accountant, and they will pay Ireland one percent of their Europe-wide turnover does not really tear out the Czech pension system. We need them to pay taxes in the Czech Republic from the profits they have in the Czech Republic and we need to keep the state budget and pension system operational.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Leo Luzar now enlisted and Mr Skopeček will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to say a few words about this law, although I do not feel called up and the social area is not my area, but in the context of the apology of my colleague Aulická Jírovcová, let me also say here the position of the KSČM club on this issue. We must say that we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u35	I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. If you, my colleagues, are discussing a subject other than the subject of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, please in the foyer and allow individual Members and Members to speak in a dignified environment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u36	Thank you. So, first of all, I would like to say that the KSČM club will support this proposal, although I must say that we consider it, say, a partial one. Partial improvement in the situation of our pensioners. I don't think there's anyone here who's willing to admit that seniors live above their standard and that they don't deserve a raise. Therefore, we also consider this increase, which is proposed from nine to ten percent of the average wage - here I point out: achieved two years ago, or certainly no longer current, and this increase could be greater - we consider a certain contribution to our pensioners, but not sufficient. I would like to make it clear here that the KSČM club on this basis promotes that the fixed part of the pension corresponds to the legal amount of the minimum of life. In other words, many pensioners do not reach even the basic minimum of living. Let's think about what it's like to live for the minimum of life. And many pensioners do not even achieve this, and unfortunately, the increase from nine to ten percent for many does not reach the level of this minimum of living. We consider this to be a partial concession to pensioners, but certainly not the last, and we will try to make sure that a fixed part of the pension corresponds to the statutory minimum of living. I also want to say that there is an attempt to straighten out the differences between the old- and the new-goers. It's a powerful simplification, but I think we know what I'm heading for. There's talk of that thousand-coron at the age limit of 85 years plus. If this proposal came ten years ago, that's the solution to a certain comparison here. But we have to realize that even though we're talking about 20 years in this proposal, it's more than that. And that disabled group has been 75 years and above these days. So what I'm saying here is that the 85 plus should be reduced. In other words, make it a lot harder for the group that's 75 and up today. Here, the scissors that are open will always remain open only with the oldest group and it is no longer directly dependent on this dose, because it receives other contributions thanks to its age and health. Let's just say that it is not primarily affected by the opening up so far, but on the contrary, those who are under the age of 85 are 80, for example, who can feel the problem more and unfortunately this amendment here, I have to say for myself, unfortunately, does not remember. These are things that we consider to be quite important here to say, and we believe that in further readings with the Minister our experts will surely agree that it is only a partial adjustment of the state that is currently in place, and that our seniors deserve to have a dignified means of life and our duty - our duty - to ensure it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u37	I thank Mr Leo Luzar and now Mr Jan Skopeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u38	Thank you. Only very briefly to conclude. I also understand the need and approve the need to improve the financial situation of existing pensioners. There is no reason for pensioners not to benefit from economic growth, which is certainly the case. So I am not fighting the idea of adding to the elderly. However, in the context of demographic development, this has already been said several times, it must be acknowledged that each such measure, every such decision, reduces the sustainability of the current ongoing pension system, which according to all the responsible predictions of our institutions or foreign institutions, from the World Bank to the European Commission, simply states that our system is not sustainable over a long period of time, that the number of economically active people will fall, while the number of people who will draw from this system will grow. And if we don't do anything about it, we're risking one thing, and that in the future, the average pensions will really be very small, if we compare them to the current wage, or, let's face it, or the Ministry of Finance should admit it, we're counting on very dramatically taxing the very economically active part of our population. And this may not only be through higher taxation of work, which is already so high in our country and would need to be reduced, but if we could hear, for example, the chairman of the previous pension commission of Professor Potůček, he suggested, for example, higher property taxes on the rich. So it needs to be said that if we don't do something about the system, either future pensioners will take it away from having very low pensions against average wages, or let's say today's younger generation, that it will pay dramatically larger, dramatically larger taxes, especially property, because taxing more work will not work, and it is fair to say so. And unfortunately, I'm from a government that comes up with this measure that I'm not fighting, but I haven't heard B, nor have I heard a hint of that pension reform. [[11.20 hours]] In the programme statement, we could read that he was planning to separate the pension account from the state budget. This is a possible measure, perhaps a matter, we may agree on it, but we also agree that it is only a technique that will not solve the next pension in any way. I agree with my previous speakers here that, as part of this measure, we are changing the proportion of merit versus egalitarian approach to pensions a little bit. It's not black and white. In this sense, I have to say that in the context that today's pensioners do not pay insurance for their pensions, but they pay current pensioners, which our citizens don't know much, and they often complain that while they have paid a lot of money for social security during the active part of their lives, it is necessary to admit that they didn't pay for themselves, but that they have paid him for the current generation of pensioners. So even in this system, talking about merit is a little tricky. But that is why this debate, a serious debate, should be part of the debate on pension reform, and it should not be dealt with by this salami method. Because, without a doubt, there will be different opinions between us, from the view that the State's pension is to be equal, because the state does not have the right-wing view of the role of insurance companies and, on the contrary, the merit is to take place somewhere else at the level of insurance companies, funds that will assess the savings of people who will pay for their pension, because I hope that most of the population is already clear that only the state pension will not provide them with a dignified old age. But as I say, I can imagine that the state pension, or the part that will be paid by the state, will be very egalitarian, because it may be the concept of social welfare, and the merit will take place, as I say, on that side of the private sector on the side of insurance companies and funds. But this should be part of the debate on systemic structural pension reform, for which we must also say in advance one important axiom, namely that it will not touch existing pensioners, that any future pension reform must apply to today's younger generation, which will be able to save up and prepare for old age during its economically active part of life. This certainly does not apply to today's generation. But the debate needs to be opened. And I blame this government for only coming with this separate proposal. And unfortunately, for many years now, even though the ANO movement was involved in the abolition of at least a step towards the pension reform of the previous government, it did not come up with anything more systematic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u39	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking who else is reporting from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Final words? The Minister is interested, the rapporteur will also be interested. No? He's not interested. Okay, so the secretary has the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u40	Once again, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for all your comments. Of course, this step is not about pension reform in the true sense of the word. That's not really what this is meant, and I don't think anybody is objectively expecting it to happen, that the government, after 20 or almost 30 years since the revolution, doesn't have real pension reform, that we'll bring it here on the table after three months. However... and that is why it must and will be followed by a really serious debate over all the parameters so that we can prepare a pension reform that, perhaps, and I hope, will be able to start one that will go beyond at least one parliamentary term and remain for all our citizens in the future. That's why the question, or a few questions, was why, or is it reasonable to take those partial steps. We believe that this is perfectly reasonable, because even though over time the valuation mechanisms and calculation of the pension have been set up to match or copy the development of the economy, there are still more than a third of pensioners, especially old-age pensioners, who have a pension of less than CZK 11,000. It's 760,000 people. There threatens to open scissors between rising average wage and average income, even if it is valorized. There they threaten to fall into our social system, they'll be on welfare. That's why I think the move to stop the scissors opening is right now. If we raise from 9 to 10 per cent of the basic pension ratio, I believe that we are not at all interrupting the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, which stressed in its conclusions the need for valorisation in 2010, but subsequently following the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, the valorisation mechanisms were set, the reduction limits were adjusted. And by maintaining the valorisation formula for the next year and the next period, we believe that the principle of merit, at least as discussed by the Constitutional Court, will not be broken. Of course, following this step, the increase in the basic salary and the increase of CZK 1 000 for pensioners who will complete 85 years, there must be a serious debate about pension reform. Let's start... The basic thesis, of course, is ready. We need to start with a thorough analysis of the first pillar. We need to think about what is coming into the first pillar, but what we are paying from the first pillar and what are the rules of when the government can benefit from the pension account in the meantime, as it did in the previous period, when, in 2004 to 2008, the pension account, although it was in the plus, was drawn. I'm sure we'll take a look at the excluded and alternate times. We need to think about whether when mothers are on maternity or long-term care for loved ones, if the state should not do as it is in the health insurance system, to the first pillar for these, in quotation marks I say, to the state insured. Because even though they haven't paid for a long time, some haven't asked for an old-age pension at all, and from the first pillar they are paid. But that is a lot of other points - early retirement, the opportunity to contribute to their employees so that they can retire early and not be handicapped for it afterwards by the amount of retirement - it is a lot of follow-up steps that we need to very closely, very thoroughly analyse, prepare so that pension reform is really ready, and now, it's really not with exaggeration, for those future generations in our state. I thank you very much for all the comments, I believe there will still be time and space to do so. I am prepared, of course, to discuss all these comments and proposals over time and I will consider them very valuable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u41	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová. The rapporteur with the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u42	Vice-President, I think it's just about two technical things. There was a motion to shorten the hearing. [[Vice-President Philip: 30 days.]] That's what you noticed. And I pointed out in my explanatory report that some measures will and may have a significant impact on the expenditure side of the state budget of the Czech Republic, which is why I assumed that someone would propose a proposal on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Since it hasn't happened, I would ask you to vote on the commandment to this committee later as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-002-032.u43	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before we go any further, I'll read the Minister of Health's apology. Minister Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day. Now, then, we have proposals before us on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. Zagonguji, I will try to summon those I have asked to conduct discussions outside the Chamber. We will decide on this commandment in the vote number 118, which I have begun. I ask who is for the commandment of the Social Policy Committee as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 118. From the presence of 149 for 129, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, the rapporteur proposed the Committee on Budgets. Does anyone else have any other proposal that the committee should be ordered to do so? I can't see. We will therefore decide on the commandment of the Committee to the budget. I have begun voting number 119 and I ask who is in favour of the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 119. Of the 149 present for 121, 1 Member against. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on a reduction in the deadline for discussion of 30 days, i.e. 30 days for committee meetings. We will decide in the vote number 120, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 120. Of the 149 present for 122, versus 3. This proposal has also been adopted. I can therefore say that the Guarantee Committee is the Committee on Social Policy and the Committee on Others, to which it has been ordered, is the Committee on Budgets. The hearing period was reduced to 30 days. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I end at item 33. The next item is the item
