ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 7th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. First, I'm going to ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, report to me who will vote with the replacement card. Now let me read the apologies of the various Members. Mrs Margita Balaštíková apologizes for work reasons... [[Noise in the hall.]] I'm going to ask you to settle down in your seats so that we can proceed with dignity. Thank you. He apologizes to Stanislav Blaha for health reasons, Milan Brázdil for health reasons, Jan Hamáček for personal reasons, David Kasal for health reasons, Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková for personal reasons, Eva Matyášová for health reasons, Jan Richter for reasons of foreign travel, František Vácha for health reasons, Jan Volný for health reasons, Tomáš Vymazal for health reasons, Rostislav Vyzula for family reasons, Radek Zlesák for health reasons. For the moment, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is excused from the members of the government for work reasons - he is, of course, present, so I assume that the apology is cancelled. Tomáš Hüner apologizes due to foreign travel, Jiří Milek for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Karla Šlechtová due to foreign travel and Dan Ťok due to foreign travel. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna ask you once again to really settle in your seats. I beg you to remain calm in the hall! In this atmosphere, we cannot continue our next meeting. [[He's waiting a while.]] Allow me to introduce the proposal to the Gremium first. Then I would give Prime Minister Stanjur priority. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose the following amendments to the approved agenda of the 7th meeting: Today, on Tuesday, March 6, as the first item discuss item No. 14 of the approved programme, this is the House's press 40, the Parliament's draft amendment to the Constitution, which was interrupted at first reading. As the second item, we propose to discuss paragraph 29 of the approved programme, House press 76, Parliamentary amendment to the law, construction of transport infrastructure, interrupted first reading. Next we would like to focus on other points according to approved program, block of first reading. Wednesday, 7. 3. as the first item, we would discuss paragraph 60 of the approved programme, this is the House Press 82, the CNB Inflation Report - January 2018. In addition, point No. 5, House Press 30, Senate Bill on the Constitutional Court, and No. 6, House print 31, Senate bill, record of sales, first reading, which was firmly placed on this day at 14.30, we would be reassigned firmly to Tuesday 20 March 2018 as the first two points at 14.00. So I would now sum up the overall course of this week: today, Tuesday 6. 3. - 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Wednesday, 7. 3rd morning 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which was convened on account of the appeal of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, would take place at 14.30. Ten minutes after its completion, we would continue the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which would then be interrupted by Tuesday, 20 March 2018 at 14 o'clock. Thursday, 8. 3rd from 14.00 - 1st joint meeting of both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic - promise of the Czech President. Friday 9th. 3rd from 9.00 - 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It's an extraordinary meeting. Topic: Personal changes made by the government without trust. So that's my recap, and that's it for me. And now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, fellow Members, allow me, on behalf of our Club, to propose the inclusion of a new item entitled Mr Ondráček's removal from the post of Chairman of the Commission for Control of the General Inspection of the Security Councils, today as the first item in our deliberations, and let me briefly justify this proposal. First of all, I will disprove the first myth - there is an agreement between all the MPs that this committee will be led by a representative of the KSČM club. That's a myth, that's not true. We who were at the meeting can tell you what happened. Social Democrats have shown interest in this commission. Those in this claim were supported at the hearing by representatives of five other parties. The ANO movement, the SPD, was opposed. And we've been told that's just how it's gonna be. In the end, the negotiations were rather emotionally heated. Who you remember, I got up after two hours and said I wouldn't argue with the communists about it. I left and some other club presidents left with me. So don't say here that we all agreed on this and that this place belongs to the Communist Party. It's not true. Only three clubs agreed on it. Yes, I do. They have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies and are able to say so, which also happened on Friday. But it's not true that there was a deal. First of all. Two. What is true is that, at the same meeting, we agreed that a representative of the Pirates Club will lead the commission for the work of the Chamber of Deputies. The House freely decided and elected a representative, respectively. Chairman of this commission, representative of the club KSČM. It's okay. Not once did an ANO representative speak with the fact that the agreements had been broken and that this commission belonged to the pirát and did not argue with the others! I do not question the choice of the Chamber of Deputies as a diaper. I'm just saying, when we're talking about the deals or the non-negotiations, let's say everything exactly and truthfully! Yes, when the three clubs with 115 decided that the commission would fall to the communists, the rest of us had two choices. Either block the House and we would be accused of obstructing and blocking the House, or to reconcile and do everything we can to prevent Mr Ondráček from being elected. Because at the moment - in the first sentence, when this began to be discussed, the representative of the KSČM club said: we will nominate Mr Ondráček for this post. You don't want to hear - I can't say it on a microphone, I'd be disciplined - as I commented. That they make fun of us when I say it politely, that they can't be serious. So if anyone today says he's surprised that the Communists have nominated Mr. Ondráček, he's not telling the truth. At least the ones who were at the meeting. And there were representatives of all the clubs one at a time. Mr. Radim Fiala and Mr. Tomio Okamura were both there, if I remember correctly. And then the meeting continued the next morning, when it was announced to us that social democracy in order not to be blocked by the House disagreed, but would not object to the fact that the commission fell to the Communists. There were words like "we'll never give it to the Social Democrats"! I don't like doing this. I hate to say and interpret sentences from closed negotiations. But if someone's already started telling the truth, then I have to set it straight. [[14.10 hours]] And now for the proposal itself. We have not kept secrets and we do not hide that Mr Ondráček cannot lead this committee and that we will do everything possible not to lead it. Now I'm not gonna play the fog and tell you who missed one or two MPs on Friday. Those numbers are very simple, respecting the principle of secret choice. I assume the MPs are voting for their deputy when they nominate him. It's legitimate, it's logical. There were 11 communists here. I suppose without being with them behind the plate, they voted for him. There were 19 members of the SPD club present, and I don't know if everyone voted for him. But even if everyone votes for him, 11 and 19 is 30. Thirty, Prime Minister. And there are 49 votes missing to achieve 79. And where did they come from? Is it half of the club of the ANO movement, like they pinched it half-and-half? Well, they'd have to have 98 members, and they'd all be here to make it half and half. According to the reports I saw yesterday in the media, 63 members of the club were present, so these figures suggest that at least 49 voted for Mr Ondráček and 14 did not vote for him. Whoever controls the basics of mathematics will agree with me that 49-14 isn't half-and-half. It's just an explanation. We think that in such a thing that is designed by a man who, with a baton in his hand, defended the communist regime, cannot be dealt with, negotiated, mutually supported, that it is a matter of principle and approach. And we don't want to aim with Friday's result. Therefore, even after the Prime Minister's media statements, for example, we are coming up with this point and I firmly believe that we will convince most of the Chamber of Deputies and this majority will correct the wrong move that the House took on Friday, in our strong opinion. Since there has been some speculation as to how this can be done, Rules of Procedure, Art. 47 says that the Chamber of Deputies elects the President of the Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies, so by analogy, the Chamber of Deputies as a whole dismisses the President of any commission, we vote secretly, so by analogy, the vote on appeals must, virtually. It's supposed to go undercover. We propose that this be done in accordance with these principles, i.e. secretly. If anyone suggests another way of voting, our club will vote against the public vote. Because it is a democratic privilege to vote on personnel matters in a secret way and we do not want to lose this democratic privilege even in the case of Mr Ondráček and this election. Thank you and I ask you to support the inclusion of this point today as the first point. We are prepared that the point will take place quite briefly, but if there were repeated outrageous performances from Friday, we will, of course, respond to them. I mean, some outrageous Friday performances, so I don't touch all Friday's performances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. I am just adding, so it would be two votes on the inclusion of a point, and then on the inclusion of a fixed one as the first point in today's negotiations. Mr Stanjura's performance has raised several priority rights. First President Okamura, then President Faltýnek will be prepared, then President Kováčik, then President Chvojka, so that you know where you stand. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have another suggestion. I've already briefed him at the press conference. We would like to ask you, or I would like to ask that we be the first point at this meeting, and that is the first point now, so we would like to discuss the point of amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and it is a direct choice of mayors and captains. At this point, we've been waiting for this point for practically a few years. And I have to say, we're just before the vote, because basically there are, I guess, two debaters. This point has been interrupted. He was cut off because of the election, I think, the Board of the Czech News Agency or something last week, and as I'm watching the debate that's going on here, it might be a month from now, because we'll see how it's going to be tomorrow. Then there's the inauguration, there's another special meeting on Friday. I wanted to ask you, it really is a point that can only take five or ten minutes to pronounce it. Even our Member Bojko for this reason withdrew his application to the debate he had there to the general debate. So if we can please include paragraph 14, press 40, which is already at the end of the vote and was interrupted for the vote, please support us to discuss it first, so that we may be able to discuss it further in the Chamber of Deputies, and then you can jump to the point that the Chamber of Deputies will decide whether it will be included or not. I wanted to ask you for the direct choice of mayors and captains, it's very important to us. This does not prevent other points from being discussed. It's just for a second. But we'd like to start discussing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to ask you again, if possible, to lower your voice, to handle any phone calls in the lobby. With the replacement card number 1 will be voted by Minister Stropnický. With a spare card, I hope I remembered it well, Mrs. 7 Mrs. Matušovská. Just for President Okamura, your proposal is already part of the proposal from the Gremium. We will vote on it in the framework of the proposal of the Gremium. The Grémium proposes this point first. It's item number 14, House press 40. That'll be part of the big vote. Another with priority rights, President Faltýnek, will be prepared by President Kováčik, then President Chvojka, then President Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Only with the permission of a brief reaction to a performance by a colleague of Zbyněk Stanjura. Perhaps even to revive the memory of all of us, because in politics, the memory is very short, at least for some. However, allow me one more small gloss to choose, respectively. appeal. In fact, since Friday, there has been speculation about who voted in a secret election, and if anyone voted and voted and supported and did not support it, and I have heard the ODS Members' opinions in the galleys, I will not name them yet: And we threw it to him, etc., etc. [[Punching in the benches on the right.]] Well, to prevent it, I think it would be nice if we called off Mr. Ondráček publicly. No? Let everyone see who votes. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] And it'll be clear to everyone. And I don't know what's undemocratic about calling someone off in public. And now very briefly to history. You all know that there are nine inspection committees in the Chamber of Deputies. For repeats only, it is shortcuts: BIS, FAÚ, GIBS, NBÚ, Military Intelligence, wiretapping, cyber security, CEU and UHIS newly created. Subjects in the House are nine. There were basically two options before us to divide the Presidency of these committees. It's either the election results or the parole results, every single one. We, as the YES movement, have said that we will not nominate any president. No Prime Minister. Eight subjects remain in nine positions. And I asked my colleagues, and that's the table that arguments the table, so he can look at it, it's always the same. [[shows]] My chart, Faltýnkův's chart. Thank you, Zbyněk, through Mr President. I have asked all the other subjects in the House to agree on the division of commissions. In part, I give the truth to President Stanjur that it was not a simple debate - it was not - and that in certain matters the majority's opinion prevailed and that there was a dispute between the social democracy that was interested in this commission and the KSČM. This debate was closed before 12. December.* [[14.20 hours]] Even if I go back to relative representation, just for your information, if we were to do this based on election results, four blocks would be entitled to two positions and five of them, the ANO movement would be entitled to four and it has zero, Pirates on one, they have one, SPD on one, they have two, KSČM on zero, they have one and ČSSD zero. I'll only take the nine inspection committees. Okay, we don't have to call it a deal. The division here - in order to comply with Zbyňka Stanjur, Mr President, through Mr President - was known before 12 December. And what happened on December 12th? On December 12, we voted for the members of the commission, including the GIBS committee, where one of our colleagues ran for each side - I'm sorry, without titles - Bartoš, Majerová Zahradníková, Mašek, Ondráček, Řehounek, Schiller, Španěl, Válková and Výborný. And 173 Members from 181 voted for these people. Interestingly, no one spoke in the debate and suggested a vote by name or that, therefore, if the majority agreement is that KSČM's representative should be chairman, no one would dispute that. Of course, our Members, ODS Members, ODS President, Mrs Němcová, did not vote for, for example, a colleague Zbyněk Stanjura, Pirates 21 pro, SPD 20, ČSSD 9, KSČM 15 - logically, KDU-ČSL 8, TOP 09 4 headed by President Kalousek and STAN all five present. So I'm asking why we didn't open this question when it was clear that the only representative of the KSČM on this committee was colleague Ondráček. We could have had it all figured out then, and we didn't have to call it off today - I hope - by public choice. So very briefly on my part a description of the situation. I was trying to be objective. I gave Zbyňka Stanjur, the President of the ODS, for the truth, that it was not easy and that in the end some majority won the final division. But if on December 12th we'd come to this as we did today or last week, we could have solved the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u7	Thank you. Let me read the apology. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes from 14 to 15 hours for health reasons. There's a written cancellation of the Prime Minister's apology, and I'm referring again to the microphone. Now with priority rights, President Kováčik, then President Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. The debate that takes place at the opening of today's day, but also before it, is a debate which, of course, may belong to parliamentary democracy, but is taking a course that is not entirely standard. We are dealing with things that, from the point of view of citizens, in terms of why we are elected, are seemingly secondary, and I personally would very much like to bring the flow of the activities of the Chamber of Deputies alongside the political struggle that is taking place here, also to the other functions that are. The KSČM MP club, after listening here to both colleague Stanjur and colleague Faltýnek, regarding the question, say, the fulfilment of the position of Chairman of the GIBS Control Commission, decided that it must be discussed again in this matter, that it cannot continue to allow these empty politically motivated - perhaps God knows anything but the personality of the candidate or elected chairman - the discussion, and therefore let me ask for a break at this moment for a meeting of the KSČM MP for a duration of 20 minutes, and at the same time, please the KSČM MP to the room 56 now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u9	So we have 14.25. I'm interrupting the meeting until 14.45 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.45 p.m., the time has passed, which was requested by the KSČM for the purposes of its consultation. I'll ask you to settle down in your seats. Before the break, the debate raised several applications with priority rights. It was President Chvojka, then President Bělobrádek, then President Farský, President Kalousek and President Stanjura. I'm asking everyone who's been asked... I'm sorry. [[A Member of the Luzar comes to the pitch and asks for a word.]] Please, anything processual or for the club? Otherwise, you don't have priority rights. For the club? On the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u11	I'd like to ask the House of Honor for another ten minutes' break for the club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u12	I'll grant the request. I think it's important. So we'll continue at 14.56.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the time has passed for a break for a meeting of the KSČM Club. Let's keep going. We are still in the discussion of the amendments to the agenda for this meeting. I was trying to find a match for the next move. I couldn't do it. However, I think that the position of the KSČM MEP is crucial for the next meeting, whether it should have been mentioned in the other contributions or not, and I would like to give room for that statement to be heard first. It just has a logic. If you object to this procedure, of course we can vote on it. If you object to this procedure, Mr President, you have the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u14	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, you are about to break the law. It's just not possible. Yes, where there's no prosecutor, there's no judge. If we all agreed to this, you're right. We disagree. We can't vote on changing the order of entries unless there's a match. I can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u15	Mr. Chairman, they didn't understand me. I am calling that if you do not agree with my procedure, I understand that you would object to my proceedings. That's what I meant, that if you object to my proceedings, I get it, and I'd let you vote on it. Otherwise, I really think it would be better for all of us, in terms of common sense, to hear our position. This will lead to a whole other debate, which may also prove redundant after it may appear to be heard. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u16	You're not gonna get rid of it that easily, that you're gonna vote majority, that you can break the law. It's just not like that. I know you probably know what President Kováčik has to say. That's how coalitions work, coalition partners don't surprise themselves with microphones. We don't know, so how do I know that the KSČM representative's performance will direct the next debate? I just don't know. According to the Rules of Procedure, we are entered here in some order. If everyone checks out in front of me, then I'll get out, and then after me, they can come out in the order that they've been logged in, the others. That's not logic. That others were logged in, it's okay. The break was fine, but there's some order of admissions and there's no change in the vote! Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u17	Once again, so that we understand each other, I wouldn't even suggest that we can vote on it. Although, of course, the House is a souvenir. I would like to, I would like to make this possible and if you feel that I am violating the Rules of Procedure, I completely consider it to be a legitimate objection to this procedure, and the House would have to deal with that. Do we understand each other, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u18	Understood. Now professionally. You're a lawyer, I'm a programmer. Both professions use logic. We're the same. Let's make an example of that. I will object to your procedure and the sněmovna will reject it. What's next?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u19	Then the procedure I suggested is in effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u20	No, that's a violation of the law. Don't be mad at me. That's why I'm saying, I was afraid you'd say this, that you just can't break the law by voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u21	I consider this to be such an exceptional situation that will allow for a reasonable continuation of this debate... [[reactions in the room, laughter]] If I'm trying to oppress a majority or a minority here, I understand the laughter. But given that the debate has some structure and that it will most likely move us further -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u22	[[This is the President's speech.]] Mr President, you have a working committee to amend the Rules of Procedure. I highly recommend you put in the "we will proceed according to common sense" paragraph. I'm all for it. Now the question is, who's gonna judge? We're all curious. I'm not entirely curious. I'm in favour of following the law, objecting to your progress to shorten it. However, if the objection does not pass and you proceed, I say that I will propose your appeal to the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies because you will knowingly break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u23	Okay, I understand. And apparently at this point, there are two options. Either I would interrupt, and as people, we would try, as club presidents, to arrange, that is the common sense you were talking about, colleague, or we really need to deal with it in the vote, and I am ready to face it. Again, I wonder if there may be a deal. I'm interrupting the meeting for three minutes. I'll ask you to come to me. All club presidents, don't let us push.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u24	Let's keep going. We have not achieved a full consensus, but mostly the Presidents have convinced me to respect the priority rights. I will just slightly modify that Mr. Stanjur, who was registered, was also registered until then. So the club's position would be presented after President Chvojka, President Bělobrádek, President Farský, President Kalousek, President Stanjura, President Filip, and then the KSČM club's opinion, which will be presented by a Member named Zdeněk Ondráček on behalf of the club. I am glad that we have settled in some way, and with priority rights, President Chvojka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u25	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. I think we all know what's going to happen here, but I understand that most of us have agreed to continue the way those with priority rights have been logged in. So what we all know is that maybe in an hour or so, but there's nothing we can do, that's politics. I wanted to go back to what Mr Faltýnek, President, spoke of and what Mr Stanjura, spoke of because it is very important for ČSSD. It's just like they said. At the turn of November of December, we had some discussions, and there was a general agreement on the inclusion of all the various committees that we have here, and all the different committees that we have here. Basically, we agreed on everything -- really everything -- except for one crucial fundamental thing, and that is exactly who has the right to have the post of Chairman of the GIBS Control Commission. The CSSD had its nominee then. We wanted to, we sought this post. And we had a good nominee. And the Communists had it, too. I tried to do that, and I pointed out at the turn of November and December that firstly, when this falls to the communists, it is not entirely happy, and secondly, that when it comes to the communists, and on top of that, Mr Ondráček will preside over it, that it is not at all happy and that it is not even media happy and that it will simply turn against those who came forward with the proposal. Unfortunately, I was told by the evil coalition at the time, as we say with our colleague Birk of the ANO, SPD and KSČM movement, that, if it were to happen, we would vote in plenary between ČSSD candidate and KSČM candidate and we would decide that the three-party machine would simply vote for Mr Ondráček. So what's happening these last few days since Friday, it's basically useless hysteria, because we knew that the YES movement, mostly except for some minor exceptions, which I have in addition for such a controlled democracy, to show that there are some different opinions in one man's movement, so the YES movement, in my opinion, and on the basis of that agreement, voted majorityly for Mr Ondráček's colleague. And I thought it was a mistake at the time, and I knew it would come back to them. What the Prime Minister has shown since that Friday, the turn, is what I consider to be the top of hypocrisy and the top of cynicism and alibis, because it was known that this post belongs to the KSČM on the basis of an agreement with the ANO movement. So I don't understand what anyone's wondering. After all, it was enough for Prime Minister Babiš, as the right head of his movement, to say please, I do not want you to vote in the secret election for my Ondráček Member for the YES movement. So what has been shown here since basically yesterday is that the Prime Minister has been frightened and is afraid of what might have happened on these squares, that it is not quite usual to demonstrate in eleven cities in the Czech Republic from Prague to Brno, Pardubice, České Budějovice. I think that Friday, and I have a little butter on my head, I wasn't here, I'm sorry about that, I was abroad, I couldn't go back, and there was more of those colleagues, but I think sometimes, as they say, there's something bad for something good. That's what's gonna happen. I think that the bad thing that has happened means the election of my colleague Ondráček to the post of chairman of the GIBS Commission showed, and it is good that we have an active civil society here, because after three days so many people in 11 cities of the Czech Republic have been turned out to be bothered by this, and it turns out that communists, whether existing or former, still cannot eat the whole Czech Republic and can't do what they want here. So like I said, all bad things are good for something, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u26	Thank you. Another priority right - President Bělobrádek. President Farský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u27	Thank you. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, colleagues - first thing. I would appreciate that, through President Faltýnek of the ANO movement, our proposal for this appeal to be public. That's all right with me. Second thing. If what leaks to the media is true that Mr Ondráček will give up his presidency on the GIBS control committee, I appreciate it as a capacity for self-esteem. And I would like to thank all those who organized and who took part in the protests and the pressure that was here. And if that is not the case, because we do not know this officially yet, then I would like to propose a point on the agenda of Mr Ondráček's appeal as a member of the Permanent Committee on GIBS' control, and that this item be placed firmly as the first item in today's negotiations. Of course, if Mr. Ondráček hears the appeal and withdraws, then we can withdraw it, or it will be impossible to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u28	Thank you. Just to clarify, basically the same name... President Stanjura proposes an appeal from the chair's office. You're suggesting a member. Thank you. New point, fixed rank first. Now, President Farský, President Kalousek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to talk again about how wrong it is that Ondráček is getting such a position. That it is a bit of a mockery to those 70 years since February 48, which here for the Czech Republic and its citizens meant really 40 years of disgust and destruction, from which we are gathered up to now. But I am also a reader of the fast news, and so I see from everything that goes on in the media that Mr. Ondráček is resigning from this position and that he will not be the chairman of GIBS. I would like to first of all thank all those who have thrown themselves into the streets and who have reminded them that they do not care what is happening here in the Chamber of Deputies. Who filled Václavák, who participated in the square in Liberec, who set off in others because there are things that populists like Andrej Babiš are more afraid of than Olaf. And that's public opinion. Thanks to you, and I hope we don't have to go there often.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u30	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek, President Stanjura will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I share the respect of fellow Farský for those who did not regret time, energy or courage and showed their civic position. On the other hand, I do not think that they will be given the truth, because we who were at those demonstrations know that they were primarily directed against the aesthebacist at the head of the Czech government. And perhaps today will bring the resignation of my colleague Ondráček, but I don't think he could bring the resignation of Prime Minister Babiš. So there's probably gonna be a lot, a lot of other opportunities on these streets. I wanted to respond to President Faltýnek, who said that someone here probably has a short political memory. I remember a number of political amnesias, but the fact is that I have never experienced as fast and frequent as your party chairman, Mr President of the club, through Mr President. He's able to forget what he said this morning. And he's able to forget on Sunday what he promised the Communists a few days ago by handing over the Ondráček that you would choose. That's just the way it is, and it's the truth. And don't lie to people that anyone in the ANO movement could have voted differently than your party chairman wanted. [[Disapproval of Members YES, pounding into the benches.]] For all of us here watching your positions and voting, we simply cannot trust whether we are your colleagues, whether we are journalists or whether we are the public. However, what I consider to be the top of the crap, President Faltýnek, through Mr President, was your general claim that you heard several ODS Members in the proceedings - I think you said - who said: "We're going to throw it to that Ondráček." Sorry, that's disgusting if you don't name it! This is a typical method described according to StB practices, described even in methodological manuals. I don't know if you drew from them or your boss's experience, but I really want you to step out and say those names. Because otherwise, it was an utter slander against which I am opposed and which should not be one of any Members in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u32	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura, then Vice-President Filip. President Stanjura waives his right of priority, so with priority rights Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief, but I will divide my performance into two parts. Some say that he is a Democrat because that is his name, but he is indifferent to what is written in the Constitution of the Czech Republic, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. And let me quote Article 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms: "Basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed to all without distinction between sex, race, skin color, language, faith and religion, political or other thinking, national or social origin, belonging to a national or ethnic minority, property, family or other status. " So when someone here is publicly declaring that someone who has a different political opinion simply can't do it, they just go against the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Let's face it! Some people named themselves Democrats, but to them, democracy is only when someone nods to them. What they're right about, it's democratic, others don't have the right to express themselves. And that, in my opinion, is undemocratic. But there's nothing I can do about it, because these people are like that. So allow me to propose an extension of the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting to another item called the crimes of privatization and corruption of the ODS in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u34	Thank you. Was there any preliminary agreement that there would be no more preferential rights? Mr Bělobrádek is therefore interrupting and I would ask that Mr Zdeněk Ondráček speak with the KSČM club's opinion, as has been announced. Please note that then there are other applications for the program and we will vote on the programme. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me introduce you to the club's position, but also to my position, and, at the same time, to some - I cannot find the right word now - outbursts from the right part of this political spectrum. I would like to say - and I think the situation has been described very well by President Faltýnek - 12. 12. you have decided by voting 173 of 181 on the composition of the commission for inspection of the General Inspection of the Security Corps. You also knew that this commission was to be assigned to the KSČM on the basis of political party agreements, even if you mentioned it, President Stanjur, through Mr President, as you did not agree. But that's your choice, you didn't have to leave the meeting and you could have voted. Then there was a two-to-three-month move on whether I should be chairman of this committee or not, and there was a vote on Friday. Once, you have succeeded in questioning one vote in the past, based on the error of the electoral committee. I suppose it won't happen again, but so be it, when someone's in trouble, they're looking for what they can. You were able to question the choice. If you failed the second time, you think you've called a demonstration. Well, I'd like to tell you, fellow Members of the right side of the political spectrum - I call you a democratic cesspool - that -. [[First a laugh, then a strong banging into the benches on the right]] Yes, thank you for the applause. [[♪ There's laughter in the hall ♪]] I'd like to tell you, don't be so cocky. Don't be so cocky. If it was those dozens and hundreds of people, I'd laugh at you. I'm definitely not taking a few dozen or hundreds to my decision, which I'm about to make in the end, or, as you call it, thousands of protestors who are on the streets. My point is - and the Chairman of my political party mentioned your view of democracy. So let me tell you, Mr Gazdík, Feri, Rakušan, Farský through Mr President, that one of the laws of this country, and its name is the law on the right of assembly, you can look into Act No. 84/1990, states in Section 1: meetings are prohibited near the buildings of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, in the places defined in Annex 1, annexed to this Act. Annex says - House Street No. 1. You four appointed guys walked two months ago, and you supported that group of people you called in here. You knowingly violated the laws of the Czech Republic! But democratically, you're going to convince us what kind of democrats you are. Yes, you can only use democracy if you need to talk about it or put it in the name of your party or block or other movement. So that's your democracy. Your demonstration of democracy. And your demonstration of democracy is that two months ago, based on your democratic behavior, I was offered the decision to leave the Chamber of Deputies because your supported crowd was going to wait for me somewhere and lynch me. If you don't believe me, you can ask the head of the Chamber of Deputies who offered me to leave this Chamber of Deputies. You who talk about democracy over and over again! You call for an elected Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to be lynched for having opinions other than yours! Thank you. This is evidence of your democracy. Your democracy - If you say I'm lying and you want to shout at me, you don't have the decency to sign up for a discussion. [[Voice from the right.]] Your democracy, your concept of democracy means that not only am I, but above all my family, my children are subjected to such media pressure, and not only to media, but to threats that I have considered and consulted the Police of the Czech Republic about providing short-term protection. In a democratic country, a member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic will take care of his own children just because you invented an idol. OK, come on, Mr. Whitebread, you can't just -- yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. [[The President asks to address him through]] Mr Belbrádek, through Mr President, you may as well propose my appeal not only from a member of the Commission to inspect the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, you may also suggest that I be relieved of my mandate to withdraw my citizenship. Because it's your democracy in your conception! That's how you Democrats act! So I'm not resigning from this position based on the fact that there's a bunch of screamers on the street, but because I've assessed my security situation and my family. When I was in the service of a member of the Police of the Czech Republic, I faced many pressures, many pressures coming from you, you, whom I investigated and which we investigated for anti-corruption police! But back then, I was in the records of protected persons, and I was able to protect my family. Today, unfortunately, I have no choice but to vote for this form. I hereby announce that I am resigning as chairman of the Commission to inspect the General Inspection of the Security Corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since this withdrawal was heard on the microphone into the screen recording, I believe that the sněmovna is taking note of it and this withdrawal is effective at this moment. Now, with priority rights, I have seen President Stanjura's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u37	Thank you for the floor. Unlike the communists, I believe that when someone tells me I'm a Democrat, it's not a swear. Notice, they spit that word out, the so-called democratic Democrats, this is what you imagine... [[with an inhaler]] Let me get this straight. I am speaking especially to Members of the KSČM, but also to those who were not ashamed and applauded by Members of Ondráček after his performance. We didn't organize any demonstrations. [[Laughter on the left.]] I know it's weird for you guys that you don't understand, that the citizens will call themselves together, meet and express their free opinion. I know for you it's like we call it in our country, it's so suspicious, and who's behind it? I was given a paper baton at a demonstration in Ostrava to remind you of your past, for which you are not ashamed. I don't want to repeat the outrageous sentences that you said here, but also the chairman of your political party, as the operations in 1989 were actually okay. I didn't think 29 years after November, we'd be arguing here, and there'd be non-communist MPs here. I expect nothing else from them, no surprise the position of the communists. If you've ever expected any humility, a sincere apology, self-esteem, you've been naive. But I have also experienced other outrageous speeches by other Members for short-term special-purpose political gain. Marek Benda told you on Friday. Don't beat up the communists. You can't hear it, you're jumping over, your business. But you should defend democratic rules for everyone, and you should defend our free citizens, which no one organises. We didn't organize anything last night. I know - I see a former member of the PC who also nods her head that it's not possible. Well, it's possible. That's how a free democratic society works. I know that the communists of the present, ex-boyfriends don't seem that way, because they're used to being run by the party secretariats of the KSČ or KSČM, there's one letter that doesn't matter. If anyone threatens Mr Ondráček, they deserve protection and it is a matter that I condemn. I'm making this perfectly clear, completely consciously on the microphone and publicly, and it applies to everyone. And I don't want to say cases where your fanatical supporters write to me today and every day. I'm almost sure. As soon as I say something against the Communists in the House on a microphone, I'm swamped with a shower of insulting threatening e-mails. But I don't want to question it, and I don't want to downplay it, this threat. That is, of course, a matter that every democrat must distance himself from. Everyone deserves protection for their opinions, not just the MP, but also a citizen who has the right to say that he does not like working with the Communists. [[15.30 hours]] Yesterday I was at a demonstration in Ostrava, I didn't organize it, I went to see it. And for me, the most powerful speech was the appearance of the Vice-President of the Confederation of Political Prisoners, pan Žídek, with whom we have worked for a long time. And believe it or not, this respectable man with a very hard personal history told the hundreds, thousands of people quite seriously: "It reminds me of how the government works, it reminds me of months before 1948. " I'm not gonna say it, I didn't live at the time, so I can't evaluate it. But if the prisoners of the Communist regime, members of the Confederation of Political Inmates, say so, the Prime Minister can question me here. Ask those people, ask their personal life story, ask what they were in jail for, for their opinions, and then look them in the eye and say, forget it, everything's fine, we're here to work. Fortunately, it's not that simple. And I'm glad to hear from President Faltýnek, President Chvojka, today that there was no agreement of all. Yes, there was a deal for the 1 5. Well, say it like that, please. We respect that, we know who has the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. Don't be shy about it. And all of you, and now I speak to the Members and Members of the ANO Parliamentary Club: Yes, Mr Ondráček has resigned now, but he will not change his past, he is not ashamed of his behavior - and he is the man who will support your government. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u38	At this point, I don't see... I see priority rights, President Bělobrádek. Sorry, sorry, Mr. Kováčik applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor. So what were you fighting against and fighting against? Ondráček is gone and you continue. When Babiš is gone and Kováčik is shot, because it probably won't leave you before. I'm begging you, let's get a hold of ourselves. We're talking here. We've got a lot of democracy in our mouths. Excellent! We've got a history full of shit. Excellent! So let me just remind you that the past isn't just the one that was before 1989, but the past is now also after 1989, so I'd like to remind you that there are crimes that are inexhaustible. These include crimes against human rights, crimes against human integrity, crimes against nations, but also privatization crimes. And they weren't punished! They weren't even spoken of! And the previous governments, the previous governments, and with the support of the ODS and the participation of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, bear such Kainův sign on their foreheads as well. So let's deal with the indispensability of privatization crimes, let's place that point, if you want to place the point of appeal of my colleague Ondráček directly from the committee, then even from the House, then get rid of citizenship, then get rid of Europe best, that, perhaps even from the world, so let's also talk about who is guilty and responsible for the more immediate past, because that is also the past. I would like to ask everyone, to call on all those who have a little bit of common sense here, let us also continue to perform other functions of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. other parliamentary functions than the political struggle. Of course, I do not question it, it is legitimate, and if it is led by legal means and legitimate means, it is also legal. But we have other things to worry about, and I don't want to be told come work, because it has the motto of another political group, I don't want to be told also come to work, let's keep it quiet, we've heard it here too, but let's also do the other functions of Parliament in the balance. Only to the address of those who would like to continue. Well, we've seen the same people with red cards. This is not only against the Communists and Ondráček, but it has a broader context in my opinion. I agree that they also called themselves, but also with your support, and I said so today at a press conference, with the support of some media. So I expect the same media to communicate every half an hour in the news to the citizens of the Czech Republic, their listeners and viewers that there will also be first-time demonstrations and demonstrations and demonstrations and demonstrations on the occasion of the liberation of Czechoslovakia from the hands of the Nazi German troops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u40	Thank you. President Bělobrádek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u41	Thank you. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, through you, Mr President, to Mr Ondráček. I designed your appeal so that the Communists could put in someone else they could choose, so it was very helpful to you. It's just not my fault that you didn't get it. Anyway, I guess what's important here is that we weren't really involved in organizing those protests. I don't think it was tens or hundreds, that there really were thousands of them according to the reports, but that doesn't matter, because of course it's important because everyone can express their opinion. About what President Filip said. I believe that this is no opposition to opinions, but to what has been going on and how this person stands up to it. If it were only for opinions, it would indeed be different, and I can also conclude that I personally understand Mr Ondráček. If he has been threatened or threatened in any way, I must clearly reject it, because the democrats do not really want violence to be used in the context of a political struggle. And I can assure you that your party's supporters and your opinions are threatening us, and there have already been some criminal reports. I was personally threatened by my children knocking with their feet that I would be shot through my head, etc. I understand you're emotional, which is why you used the word you used here. I think it is necessary to be generous, because you are emotionally upset, Mr President, that can be understood. [[Ondržíček]] I think it will calm down, because we are under this kind of pressure too, and we are threatened quite often, even by physical destruction. So I understand your emotions from this side. And then allow me to paraphrase one story, which is from the first time Pavel Tigrid and a former 68-year-old communist Mr. mlynář met. And he asked him, "And you, Tigrid, did you really believe us in the National Front?" And he says, "Well, we did. And he said, "You've read us wrong because a communist doesn't share much when he doesn't have to. If he wants to share power, then he's a Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u42	Thank you. President Kalousek and President Bělobrádek with priority rights. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u43	Thank you. Sorry to keep you two to three minutes, but I have to respond to Mr Ondráček. I'm not going to respond to him saying we're a democratic cesspool. I've never called on any lynch, and I'm not going to. But when he told us that he would resign on the basis of his assessment of the security situation of his family and his family and that he was afraid of the lynch, I believe that despite perhaps a number of not very favourable responses that he had received, that he had not received any physical violence, at least I firmly hope so. I'd be the first to condemn it. So I wanted to tell him a little memory. In January, I went to Wenceslas Square, in January 1989 at Palach's Week, and that one day we were clenched with an emergency regiment from above from the horse and from below from Jindřišská, so I was one of those who got scared. And because we got scared, we wanted to run. We wanted to escape through the Blaník arcade. And as we were running away, the alley of your colleagues stood before that passage - perhaps you were there too, Mr. Ambassador - and when we ran away, none of us had any weapons, all we had were tricolators on our jackets, so you beat us on our backs. I bought one. I've been riding for two months. It's not like I'm playing dissident. I ran because I was scared. Those were those big pins, five feet long, white ones that had a spring inside them. And you beat those people between the ages of 18 and 30 who were fleeing on their backs! It's not like you guys were defending anything. You were lynching them! So when you yourself speak of your concern for the lynch, you must take your words and remember what was going on in 1989.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u44	With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. [[Messenger. The blacksmith is arguing with the messenger outside the microphone. He was the good guy who got off early.]] That's the second time... I'm sorry twice now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Of course that's what's gonna happen. Dear government, my colleagues, my fellow Members, therefore I withdraw my proposal for inclusion because there is no sense left. Just to be formal satisfaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u46	Thank you. So I'm giving it away. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u47	Just a short drawer. Madam and gentlemen, I think it is quite unfair to continue this debate, and now I am heading to Mr Kalousek through the President and to the others. He can't defend himself because Ondráček doesn't have a priority right. That's what I do for him. Please, I've said this once before, let's not continue this discussion. Or should I regret being the ones who tried to unblock the situation with that step? Don't ask me to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u48	Thank you. I don't see an application with priority rights. With a proper application for the agenda of Mrs Dana Balcarová's meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I request that item No. 47. It is a government bill amending Act 254/2001 Coll., on Waters. It's House Press 45 at third reading. The reason is that, given that there are a lot of amendments that are very complicated and we want to discuss them well in the Committee on the Environment, that is why I am actually asking for this withdrawal from the 7th meeting programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u50	Thank you, Madame. I marked your suggestion. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to complete the agenda. At this point, I don't see anyone, we'll deal with the proposals as they were made. First of all, we would vote on the proposals from the Gremium, as they were said an hour and three quarters ago, almost. There. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on the proposals made by the Chamber of Deputies to amend the agenda of the 7th meeting. Initiating the vote, I ask who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 51, registered 184, for 175. This proposal was adopted. The next proposal was the item by Mr Stanjura, the appeal of President Ondráček, who is no longer unvoting at the moment, so we will not vote on him. Furthermore, there was a proposal by President Okamura to include point No 1 as the first one. 14, press 40, which has already been decided in the vote on the proposal from the Gremium. Therefore, it is also unvoting. We will therefore vote on the proposal by Vice-President Filip, who proposes the inclusion of a new item on the agenda, which is the Crimes of privatization and corruption of the ODS. I'm taking the vote, I'm asking who's... Just put it in. I'm sorry. Stop, stop, stop! I declare this vote confusing. I will repeat the proposal, and then I will give the Prime Minister the floor. So the point was based on a written application - Crime of privatization and corruption of the ODS. Only inclusion, not firm inclusion, as a new item of the programme. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u51	Thank you. I understand that the Communist Party has reason to call this item, or to put it on the agenda. I understand him, but I don't think that we could do well in the current meeting. I think it's so crucial that if you want to deal with this, call an emergency meeting. Therefore, on behalf of two clubs, the STAN and the KDU-ČSL movement, I put the veto on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u52	By submitting an objection, we cannot vote on the inclusion of a new point. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u53	Just a minor correction, Mr Bartošek, through the President of the Chamber of Deputies. No KSČM is interested. Citizens who were affected by the privatisation. For the tens and hundreds of fabric that were privatized and then closed. And so on and so forth. We know, we know the stories. So let's be precise. And it's symptomatic who blew up this point. We'll consider collecting signatures for an emergency meeting. Thank you for your advice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u54	Thank you. With priority rights... Vice-President Filip is stahovat, so please, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u55	Thank you. Perhaps just a collegial advice to President Kováčik. Once you've formulated the name of the meeting, there shouldn't be a conclusion in that name. If I'm proposing a meeting - crimes, several dots, and let's add anything, that's a term that only an independent court can formulate. For example, if I were to propose an extraordinary meeting, which, according to your proposal, I would call the crime of the theft of Lovochem today's Prime Minister, I would not dare to put it this way, but I would have formulated it as taking over Lovochemie Agrofert under very strange conditions. So I think that would be voteable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u56	There. Vice-President Filip withdrew his application first, but he applied after his contribution to President Kalousek. Then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u57	Thank you, dear Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't call it that if some members here, for example. Senator ODS, wasn't convicted of crime in a final manner. There was a convicted member of the ODS who voted here, who you had to bring here. So they were crimes. And if these two deputies blocked it, we probably can't vote on it. Not probably, but I'm sure we won't vote on it. But in that case, I am really including other political parties involved in that power in the 1990s and after 2000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u58	With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u59	Thank you for your advice, Mr Kalousek, through the President. It is only a pity that you, with this advice, did not come to those who here proposed the point of Mr. Babiš's podvod, etc., etc. That's where the word was - fraud. And this can only be said after the decision of an independent court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u60	Thank you. I'm not registering any prior rights at this point, at least I hope. We will therefore vote on the elimination of item No. 47, Water Act, press 45, which is at third reading, on the proposal of Mrs Balcarová. I am opening the vote, asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 53, registered 184, for 179. This proposal was adopted. This has dealt with all the proposals for changing the agenda, as they have said, and we will continue the meeting. I'd be delighted to hand over the meeting's proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-000-000.u61	Have a good afternoon. I'm opening the broken point that's
