ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u1	16. Member Jaroslav Foldyna proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 80/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the proposal and to the reason why I have given this relatively difficult law from my point of view, but simple. It is the fact that in the Czech Republic a group of people, mariners, workers working on ships work in Holland. And they got into an unenviable situation because of the state and the interpretation of the law. I, along with my colleagues, have prepared this bill, such an introduction to the issue. We've been dealing with this for two years in the last parliamentary term. So let me briefly introduce you to the unhappy situation of the Czech shipmen, the workers on board ships in Holland, who were in an unenviable situation, thanks to the double taxation treaty concluded between the then Czechoslovak Socialist Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1974. During the period following November 1989, the provision that shippers employed in the other country pay taxes in their country of residence was irrelevant. No Czech sailors have ever worked in the Netherlands in the past. They'd have to be emigrants tops. We had a Czechoslovak Lab-Oder cruise back then, where all those people were employed. Unfortunately, thanks to, say, the failed privatisation and the unhappy conditions in dealing with the Elbe navigation, they lost their job. The situation did not succeed even after the privatisation somehow reached a better end, it was not possible to employ dozens and, say, hundreds of Czech boaters on board the Czech vessels and they had to look for their livelihood abroad. Most of these people began to work in other countries and one large group in the Kingdom of Holland. Boatmen employed in Holland were assured until September 2016 by Czech tax administrators that taxes were paid in the country where employers are based. This is a very common situation for employment. It is such a use in the European Union that where you work, you tax there. However, the 1974 contract, a contract not only forgot by the boaters - it is not their duty to know the contract - but above all, the tax authorities in the Czech Republic, the financial authorities, forgot the contract was not on the boaters, respectively. This obligation has never been enforced by the State on these shippers in their tax returns. That, of course, has changed for them. In September 2016, the financial authorities in the Czech Republic began calling on individual mariners employed in the Netherlands to file a tax return and pay the tax, back from 2013. Subsequently, they were fined for unpaid tax returns, which cannot be forgiven, which cannot be forgiven, even though we tried to do so here, and interest on late taxes paid in the Czech Republic. The interest was partially forgiven to the person who requested it. I can tell you that I know these people in large part personally. For the most part, a whole number of people work there, like father and son. And I can tell you that it's a job, like a labor profession, it's a very demanding and labor-intensive job. Those people got into an unenviable situation where the money was spent on them, blue envelopes came to them with execution notices. And I don't want to say that, but I have to make that remark. I've had two deaths. My colleagues, aged 54 and 56, even succumbed to the fact that they died of a heart attack in that stressful situation. I'm not saying this to make you cry, I just want to tell you that this is a fact, that is the fact in which part of our employees are located, part of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The law laid down in the calculation of tax in the country from the supergross wage increases their gross wage. It is usually at the Dutch minimum wage level. By calculating the overvalued euro exchange rate per koruna by 34 percent of the insurance and social premiums, these were the amounts that were recovered from these people. These are the contributions of domestic employers, not employers in Holland. They make insurance payments in completely different modes. The tax administrator in Holland uses a different calculation than the Czech Republic. Moreover, tax administrators in the Czech Republic include the contributions of Dutch employers to the diet and transport of their employees from the Czech Republic and from Holland back to their residence. Officials of the financial authorities believe that the entire differences between gross and net wages will be refunded to shippers who apply to the tax administrator in the Netherlands for a refund of tax. This is not true, however, as health and social insurance must remain in Holland. The shipers thus de facto often have an increased gross wage of 34 percent of the premiums, not taking advantage of the Czech health or social system, nor burdening it. They don't parasite our society, they don't go to social services, they just look for solutions for themselves and their families actively in Holland. Another discrimination on the part of the Czech tax authorities is that it does not treat individual shippers in a uniform manner. That there are employees on one vessel with one company and each one in a different position in relation to the Czech tax administrator. It's based on where his permanent residence is. Financial administration in Holland collects not only taxes but also social insurance. It is not able to separate these two items and therefore it is very difficult to request a refund from the tax in Holland. Some sailors have really returned to the differences between gross and net wages, which means that they are in the position of a shipper without social and health insurance during their time in Holland. The situation caused by the treaty and the completely different tax system of both states cannot be resolved by these people, these shipers and their families. [[unintelligible]] For the most part, they take minimum wage, they work tour, they don't have time, they don't have money to hire experts to help them with this. Thanks to the fact that the administrators of the financial authorities do not orient themselves in the so-called the individual provisions of this Treaty, including because of the language barrier, are taxed also in the Czech Republic items which are not subject to tax. Boatmen who found work after the disappearance of the Czechoslovak Lab-Order cruise abroad themselves and did not burden the Czech social system, bring to the Czech Republic money earned abroad, supporting their consumption of the Czech economy and tax system also in VAT returns. [[17.40 hours]] Application for modification § 6 para. 13 of Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, would solve the absurd and unique situation for sailors employed in the Netherlands and allow them to remain with existing employers who are highly satisfied with their work. I must tell you that Czech boaters, unlike those abroad, are graduates of the school, often have a secondary education in this field, which is a very unique field throughout Europe. These people are never around the Czech state. They always find jobs and actively look for them. That's why I decided to help them, because they're really my colleagues in my former profession, and I know the situation very well. In its opinion on this, the Government points out that it is preparing a solution in the Ministry of Finance's tax package from 1. 1. 2019. In it he proposes the abolition of a super-gross wage. But it is a vicious solution. Either to pay 19% of the gross wage rate as other employees in the Czech Republic, in Holland the minimum rate is only 8.5% of the minimum wage, or 15% of the rate without the possibility of applying tax discounts to the taxpayer, wife and children on maternity leave. As a result, the second option is even less advantageous than the first one, but the Ministry of Finance calls it a helpful step. I am therefore concerned with making it possible for these people and people who, of course, still attend this vocational training centre, which works in Děčín, to carry out their lives and their work. Please allow me to ask you to support this law and move this law to second reading. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u3	Thank you for putting the proposal forward and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Stanislav Fridrich. Is he here? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will comment on the bill tabled by Mr Foldyna. The proposal tries to address the situation of income tax collection for Czech shippers employed on board ships with employers based in the Netherlands. It is true that with all EU countries except the Netherlands, the Czech Republic has concluded double taxation agreements whereby income from dependent activities is taxed in the countries where the employer is based. However, in relation to the Netherlands, an agreement is exceptionally concluded with different legislation. The 1974 Double Taxation Treaty with the Netherlands provides for an exception according to which taxes on dependent activities, including for mariners, apply according to their place of residence, i.e. in the Czech Republic. It shall be according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 3 given contract between the Netherlands and the Czech Republic from 1974. As has already been said here, it is alleged that all these shipers have been assured by our authorities that taxes should be paid in the place where their employer is located, so these people have paid these taxes in accordance with this assurance. However, as part of the automatic exchange of information between financial administrations in EU countries, the Czech Financial Administration has begun to recover from these shippers three years ago, including penalty accessories. However, the amendment proposed here does not, in my opinion, affect the individual nature of the problem. First, it removes super gross wages from income from dependent activity from abroad. Removing the supergross wage only in this particular case - income from abroad - and leaving it to all other taxpayers is discriminatory and non-systemic for our citizens as well. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has submitted a draft law which removes super gross wages from the entire Income Tax Act, both in relation to income in the Czech Republic and abroad. It regulates the deductibility of compulsory premiums from the sub-base of income tax on dependent activities abroad if the taxpayer receives income from the state with which the Czech Republic has a double taxation contract and the income under this contract is subject to taxation in the State where the employee is resident. The deductibility of compulsory insurance in this particular case is also an unjustified discriminatory tax advantage compared to other tax residents. Moreover, it is not clear whether the employer's premium should be deducted or whether the employee's premium should also be deducted. And the proposal confuses the permanent residence and tax residency institutes, which are not the same institutes, and each has different legal meaning and various tax consequences. For this reason, I cannot recommend this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u5	I, too, thank you and open a general debate in which I do not have applications at the moment... This is the translator. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u6	I'll take one remark, my friends. If that were the case, as my colleague here put it, I would not have filed any bill. If that were the case, the financial authorities or the Financial Administration were to meet these people and seek solutions, I would not really be making any bill. If we agree to this, we will not cause more damage to the Czech budget, but we will solve people's lives, several tens - or not tens, I would say the wrong thing - several hundred families that depend on this work of their fathers, husbands, children and providers. It'll be very helpful to them. We're not gonna jeopardize the budget at all. I want to ask you once again, let's put this law into second reading, let's eat it up and create the conditions for what we've ruined here. Those people would have gone to work in the Czech Republic if the navigability of the Elbe had been resolved in this country 20 years ago, if we were able to solve it tomorrow, but you know well that as we discuss the navigation of the Elbe for 20 years, the result is zero, so this part of the Czech public, which is dependent on its craft, is seeking application abroad and does not deprive the Czech budget of any money by going to social services to go there for a benefit. They bring us money from abroad and we create tax problems that they are unable to solve. And please, let us take this into account. If we say it is good for the Czech Republic, it is good for the Czech Republic only when it is good for the citizens of the Czech Republic and therefore I appeal to you, support me with this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u7	I would only ask the speaker to clarify, because the proposal is designed to be approved at first reading, so whether you're downloading the proposal or whether... [[Messenger. - No.]] You do not withdraw the proposal to approve at first reading. Okay. I have now signed up for the debate by Minister Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna be a little bit longer right now. I'm gonna talk out of my head because I remember the story very well. I'll explain to you what's going on here, and I really feel sorry for those, I don't know, 300-350 sailors roughly frankly. It was created that the Czech Republic has a long concluded contract with the Netherlands, so called. a double taxation treaty, according to which certain professions, which do not have a fixed place, which are, for example, airmen - they are not just shipmen, they are airmen, shipmen, college professors - are taxed according to the so-called centers of permanent interest, if I say so exactly. This means it is examined, not only where he lives, but where he pays various fees, where his family lives, etc. This is taken into account by a number of factors. [[17.50 hours]] This means that most of these people are taxed in the Czech Republic under this Treaty, I mean Czech citizens now, of course. Even this type of contract is concluded by the Czech Republic with a number of other countries, similar and the same type of contract on the same principle has a large number of EU countries, including Slovakia. I don't have them all here now. Even the OECD is considering this principle, and it is already being discussed on the OECD platform, that this tax principle will be introduced into a model contract that serves as a model for negotiating double taxation agreements. This means that these sailors, under this agreement, had 90 percent, because most of them have a permanent interests centre in the Czech Republic, they should have taxed in the Czech Republic forever. Those stories are different. I actually dealt with them x-times, x hours. Many of them still write to me on Facebook with other problems, so I was really in very strong contact with them and I know those fates. So, for some reason, a whole bunch of them either paid the taxes to Holland or maybe they didn't pay them at all. Most of the time, she paid for them in Holland. Of course, many other things failed there. Maybe even the employers, maybe it was meant to be examined. And the case is different because they had to submit a confirmation of the so-called. Domicilla. It's just x of different stories. Financial administration, if they found out these cases - she doesn't have a chance to find out. They're employees. So we don't have a register and a record, or the Financial Administration doesn't have employee records. So if she was investigating them, she had already taxed these cases since 2011 when she found out, because the exchange of information at that time was done more ad hoc than automated and fluently. In 2016, it was deployed on the basis of agreements on international cooperation in the administration of taxes. The automatic exchange of information and information began to flow to Financial Administration in large quantities, comprehensively and automatedly. And so the whole problem began that the proceedings started to be initiated in order to measure this tax, which is possible in the Czech Republic up to three years ago. When we discovered this problem, we immediately started dealing with the shipmen, the Financial Administration, in some way, to clarify it. She accepted - since 2011 the Financial Administration has already had a methodological instruction that was on the site. However, we have taken other, more precise measures - because most of these cases are Děčín and its surroundings, a few are also different in the Republic, so that specialized officials can do so, because not every official simply has experience with this. We've put in place a whole series of measures. However, we have introduced the possibility of forgiving sanctions. That tax cannot be forgiven. We held a meeting, explained it on the board of the budget committee. We wrote, we answered the letters. Simply remission under Section 260 of the Tax Code has strict rules that do not apply to this case, and that is simply not possible. The law says either in natural disasters, extraordinary natural disasters, or in cases where there have simply been irregularities resulting from some variation of adjustments, which is not the case. So we have put in place, or the Financial Administration has introduced measures of considerable remission of sanctions. Even cases where the shipmen have admitted it to a certain period of time have been forgiven in a hundred percent. Then, after a certain period of time, some 60 percent were forgiven, unless, of course, there were some other eliminating facts. But most of those sanctions - I even had statistics that I had submitted to the Budget Committee of the last Chamber of Deputies at my time, and there it was evident that some sixty, seventy percent of those sanctions were pardoned. However, the tax must be paid. However, a rule has been introduced that payment will be allowed as far as possible. It's possible there for up to six years. And once again the penalties resulting from the payment, there is interest, so it will also be as much as possible to forgive. So what could have been done within the framework of legislation was really done. The point is that they have to pay tax in the Czech Republic, but, as was rightly said, social and health pay in Holland. There were cases, and I personally made a commitment to every case being dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, and I personally followed it as Deputy Minister, that if there were cases that the shipper suspected that tax was also paid in Holland, including the social and health - because they make it very clear. We've been dealing with the Dutch administration. The General Financial Directorate has dealt twice with the Dutch administration. We appealed and asked, and we were promised that they would handle these things promptly. So there was even a case - I offered to turn to the Ministry of Finance with the so-called. requests for conciliation. This means that if they provide us with documents and state that they suspect it, we will turn to the Dutch side and ask for settlement and adjustment in the framework of the conciliation procedure. I will even tell you that in one case, when the boater actually supplied us with all the documents, we succeeded in returning the Dutch tax administration to him three thousand euros. The problem is that Holland is called. taxation, which is actually given by individual zones, progressive. So while Dutch mariners would not belong to low-income groups in the Czech Republic for example, the revenues range from two to three thousand euros, so in Holland it is a low-income group that taxes eight percent. I mean income tax. But we've got airmen. We also have university educators there. They tax, like, 25 percent, 30 percent. So we are the requirements for negotiating a contract, plus the negotiation of a contract is a question of bilateral agreement, and Holland does not want to negotiate a treaty with us for other, more serious reasons in the long term, it would mean that we would renegotiate marginal for a group, plus against the fiscal interests of the Czech Republic, which, of course, is out of the question. And what would a group say that would tax 25 and 30 percent? I will definitely oppose this proposal, especially because it is unsystematic. It is proposed to cancel the supergross wage, because although we tried to explain it, the boaters feel, or their representatives, that by designing a income tax in our country, so-called income tax. Super gross wages, as if social pay twice, which, of course, isn't. It's about the construction of some kind of tax structure that was introduced here in 2012. But I consider it completely unsystemic to abolish super-gross wages only for the marginal part of income. For foreign income and for everyone else, that's how it was left. Not to mention, Mr. Foldyna, 15 per cent, but it will be an effective rate of 20.1 per cent. She needs to remember that. Because we have, of course, 15% for super gross wages today, from super gross wages, which is an effective rate of 20.1. The 19, you're talking about, that's the proposed adjustment in the tax package for 2019. So in other words, we're proposing a comprehensive abolition of the supergross wage in the tax package, which is currently after the interdepartmental commentary procedure, which means he hasn't gone to the government yet, and that's where we're proposing a reduction in the rate. That means, today it's a rate - I'm talking about employees - 20.1 percent, so we're proposing a reduction of 19 percent. So it needs to be realized that, on the one hand, we are going to achieve some inequality, that is, we are going to take out actually - we are going to cancel a super gross wage for a certain group of taxpayers, and not for all of their income, even though they have mostly foreign income, and they are going to actually tax an amount of 20.1 percent. I reject it because we want to deal with this systemically and cancel a super gross wage en bloc. That's how it's gonna end up with the sailors. Thank you. But, of course, for the future, this proposal would also concern them for futuro, not backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u9	Thank you. I'm not registering for a motion to dismiss yet. First of all, I have a point of fact from Mrs Válková. He's canceling his application. Okay. In that case, I have two note cards. Mr Benešík apologizes from today's meeting between 18 o'clock and the end of the meeting, as well as from 18 o'clock to the end of today's meeting, Mrs Válková apologizes for working reasons. Mr. Foldyna is the first to come forward. Not either? Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the MP's club, I request a 30-minute recess for a club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u11	There's a proposal for a 30-minute break. I don't know if there's gonna be any counterproposals, but if it isn't, then I'm calling a break until 6:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because we are assuming what the output of the Social Democracy Club will be like after the break, we are asking for a break at the TOP 09 meeting from 6:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-009-016.u13	If there are no other proposals, the meeting is due at 7:00, so I don't think it's appropriate for us to meet. In that case, the item will be interrupted and the meeting will be interrupted by 9.00 tomorrow, when we will begin with the answers to the written interpelations. Thank you, everyone, and I wish you a pleasant meeting of the clubs.
