ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-018-034.u1	34. Proposal by Members of Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Pavel Kováčik, Zdeněk Ondráček and Leo Luzar for the issue of the Act on Substitute Nutrition and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts (Law on Replacement Maintenance) /Departmental Press 118/ - First Reading The Government's position has been delivered as House Press 118/1 and I will ask Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who is in her place to present the proposal to us. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-018-034.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to present our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to make a proposal on the issue of the Act on supplementary maintenance and on the amendment of other related laws, and allow me to make a few comments on this too. It is, of course, quite difficult for me to talk about some of the figures or reasons which, of course, led us to present this law, because I should perhaps mention that this is not the only term in which we are trying to present this proposal, but in the last parliamentary term, we have had an effort to discuss this proposal, and, of course, even after the rapporteur's speech to the previous point, let me say only the basic parameters which led us to present the proposal. Despite economic favourable data, incomplete families - that is, those in which only one adult member cares for children who depend on it - are mostly single-family households - among the risk groups most at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The analysis of the Czech Statistical Office, published in early 2015, focuses on the life, economic situation and the financial background of single parents, points to this fact. According to the used European data mapping monetary income and household issuance for 2012 in each country, the twenty-eight women in the Czech Republic are at risk of income poverty or social exclusion of approximately one third of single-family households. The fullness of the family thus, according to the findings of the Czech Statistical Office, affects the material and social conditions of children more significantly than for example. the number of children in the family. The level of threat to income poverty in full families with three or more children is twice as high as in the overall population, and persons in single families with two or more children are even at risk four times more frequently than the total population. It is also similar with the social exclusion indicator. From these data it is clear that the Czech legal system lacks the Institute of Replacement Nutrition, among other things due to the generally low level of enforcement in the Czech Republic. In this context, it should be stressed that, in the case of dependent children, failure to comply with the maintenance obligation and its impregnability poses a serious problem, which threatens the security of their basic life needs, but also the correct development, both for the financial inaccessibility of educational, sport and cultural activities, as well as for the maximum workload of caring parents. In particular, income from employment is very low in the case of single women. According to the latest data from 2012, on average 5 215 CZK per person in their homes per month fell in net terms. The non-payment of maintenance by the parent is, according to police statistics, the second most common crime in the Czech Republic in 2015, and of course these figures have already been mentioned here. According to these figures, approximately 40 percent of parents do not respect maintenance obligations. According to the Association of Incomplete Families, the amount of the Republic's entire debt reaches nearly CZK 16 billion in maintenance. [[17.10 hours]] The text presented proposes to provide replacement maintenance only in cases where the maintenance obligation is not met, endangers the standard of living of the child and the family, and therefore 2,9 times the family's living minimum is set as an income limit beyond which the replacement maintenance will no longer be provided. The replacement maintenance allowance shall be paid in full to the court for all entitled persons according to specified age categories, but not more than 1,2 times the minimum amount of life, to the person entitled under the Life and existential Minimity Act. At the same time, the proposal also defines when the entitlement to replacement maintenance first arises. A condition for payment shall be a condition in which, even after a court decision, a compulsory parent does not start to pay the maintenance due for at least two consecutive months. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that both proposals, although they are fundamentally different in some parts on a parametric basis, and I would certainly like the rapporteur to point that out, both proposals to be released by first reading and to be discussed in committees. I think - I will again take the rapporteur's colleague into my mouth - that this matter needs to be discussed. I think that we all agree that it is not possible for the state to constantly look at the really seriously bad situation of some people and especially children, because the issue really concerns only children, because their own parents are unable and accountable to pay for their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-018-034.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Radka Maxová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-018-034.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, let me sum up the two proposals here, the essential things to make it clear what we're talking about. Replacement maintenance will basically be paid to a family that does not exceed 2,9 minimum cost of living, whereas for the backed-up it is 2.7. You will be able to file a claim for replacement maintenance after three months of non-payment, plus two months you will still be waiting to see if anyone who doesn't pay will pay. With the backed-up maintenance immediately after two months you can go to the employment office without any proof, now it looks, and ask for back-up maintenance. The determined income for replacement maintenance is half a year, for advanced maintenance is a quarter of a year. Up to 1.2 of the cost of living of the living minimum of the entitled person is the same for both proposals. What's different is actually... the documents or the procedure that's needed for me to go to the employment office and apply, and that's quite large, because you have to prove that you're demanding maintenance, whereas you're not, which I think is also quite essential. Another big difference is that the substitute maintenance lady of the petitioner does not count to income if you ask for benefits, while backed up yes. That's what I'm talking about. The difference is quite large in my opinion. Maybe that's a possibility of thinking about the fix before we start another dose. There's a little bit of a devil buried in replacement maintenance about the time of the replacement maintenance. The petitioner may be mad at me now, because I will read to you § 7 Period of provision of replacement maintenance. Firstly, replacement maintenance is provided for a maximum period of 12 months. Secondly, where the grounds for granting a replacement maintenance after the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph 1 and where, within one month of the expiry of that period, an application has been submitted by the authorised person in writing for an extension of the replacement maintenance, the granting of a replacement maintenance shall be extended for a further period of 12 months; This can be done repeatedly. So the question is, how long would the state enforce, and the enforcement isn't quite clear anywhere, so the state can pay even the maintenance for ten years if it's going to be unsuccessfully enforced for ten years. And here's the same thing. But I haven't really read anywhere here, and that's in the government's explanatory report, whether you want to enforce or not, because there's a substitute term difference, that means no enforcement, and backed up with enforcement. That's another buried dog that maybe some of us don't know about. Which, as rapporteur, is quite essential to me, is that there is basically no time for backup maintenance or replacement maintenance in any way. If I were to quote the government's position now, of course, the government has a lot more comments on this proposal, and the petitioners know that, of course. For me, it is important that the Government's communication, which points out that the proposed bill contains some substantive and legislative shortcomings. It draws particular attention to the following: in § 3 para. The application for enforcement of a decision shall be deemed to have been submitted by the beneficiary only three months after the end of the three consecutive months, although the obligation to pay maintenance is not fulfilled by the debtor. However, the application for enforcement of the decision may be submitted after the first month of non-payment, subject to the current arrangements in force. - So why is the parent waiting so long? Maybe the reason is to save money for the state, and then two more months, actually, if it doesn't pay, etc. But if current legislation allows parents who are not paid to file a motion for enforcement after a month, then why are we waiting three? To make the debt even bigger? But right here, it's a human aspect that I fully understand. Another lack of this legislation is that it is not in line with the European Union, of course. I can't find it now. [[The speaker is in a stack of papers ahead of him.]] But there is a topic of permanent residence or permanent residence, because it is not in accordance with the social package of the European Union. But I'm sure the translators know that. And, of course, the time since this law would apply, because 1. 1. is, you might say, a relatively gallows term. So if I could say for both proposals, I don't support either of them. I'll watch a lot of debate, a lot of debate. And I would also like to ask the petitioners to back up maintenance, when all the responsibilities actually with the recovery of maintenance, with the fact that the employment office should also make proposals for execution, for the court, for the bailiffs, whether or not the state will give after four unpaid maintenance charges to the payers, if the state will also deal with this criminal level, which is also quite essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-018-034.u5	Thank you for the very detailed report, rapporteur. And now it's going to happen... I will call my colleagues to strengthen us in our efforts. We will therefore vote in accordance with Article 54 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 8 Rules of Procedure on the merger of two points and joint discussions. We're going to merge point 36, which is the Act on Advanced Maintenance, and point 34, the Act on Replacement Maintenance. There will then be a joint debate on both these points. We'll give our colleagues a moment. [[Members are still coming into the hall.]] I repeat, we will vote to merge two points - backed up maintenance and replacement maintenance. I'm registering everyone's logged out. I couldn't do it myself. So I'm gonna oblige you now, and I'm begging you to re-engage. Perhaps the number of votes will be settled. We're 100, 105, 104... [[17.20 hours]] I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of merging these points. Who's against it? Voting number 155, registered 117, for 116, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Thank you. Let me read some apologies. He apologizes to Mrs Golasowská from 17.30 to the end of today's meeting. And Mr Karel Krejza apologizes between 17 and 19 o'clock for personal reasons. We will now continue with the merged debate.
