ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund of the Czech Republic and on the powers of the Ministry of Finance in privatisation of the Czech Republic's assets (the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund), as amended, and some other related laws (the House press 130/ - first reading) I will ask the Minister - she is already at the rapporteur's table, she will state the point. I will ask Mr Vrána, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to also take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jan Farský from 16.40 until the end of the day of the hearing, Mr Juchelka from 11.15 to 12.30 for reasons of work and from 12.00 to 19.00 for Mr Nacher, who apologizes for his work in the region. Now the Czech Finance Minister Alena Schillerová has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce you to the Government's bill amending Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund of the Czech Republic and on the powers of the Ministry of Finance in privatisation of the Czech Republic's assets, so-called. Act abolishing the National Property Fund. The main objective of the law, which has been effective since 1 January 2006, was to ensure the transfer of assets and liabilities managed by the Czech National Property Fund, which arose from privatisation under Act No. 92/1991 Coll., on the conditions for transfer of state property to other persons, to the State, namely the Ministry of Finance. According to Section 4 of this Act, there are special privatisation accounts which serve to manage the proceeds of the sale of privatised assets and the profits of the State's participation in commercial companies. Today it is mainly about ČEZ, Čepro, MERO and Czech Aeroholding. These accounts are subject to an aggregate account and are not part of the state budget. The management of special privatisation accounts is exhaustively defined in § 5 para. 3 of the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund and this paragraph is the subject of a proposal submitted by the amendment. The purpose of the modification of § 5 para. 3 is 1. the discharge of parts of the law which have already lost material justification, since they have not been used in the long term, e.g. the possibility of transferring funds to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure or transfer to the State Fund for Housing Development. In addition, those expenditure titles which are not directly related to the privatisation process have been deleted and can be financed from other sources, e.g. the possibility of financing the construction of industrial zones or the possibility of spending the costs of saving the jewels of our national identity has been abolished. 2. In Article 5 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) point 5 provides for a condition for the transfer of funds from special accounts to the State budget to cover the pension deficit, but from the second half of 2017 this condition cannot be fulfilled. The removal of this condition will release transfers of privatisation funds into the state budget. 3. The source of the revenues of the special account is the return on the sale of privatised assets and the profit on the dividends of the companies in which the State has a stake. In the event that the revenues of the special account are unable to meet legal requirements and contractual obligations arising from the privatisation process, e.g. for environmental commitments, the proposal for an amendment allows the transfer of funds from the State budget to special privatisation accounts. The current state of the special account is CZK 21 billion, with so-called tied funds, i.e. intended to hold the principals of public contracts, to cover the contractual environmental obligations and the necessary balance for the financing of the special account in the collection of dividends are currently about CZK 6.5 billion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u3	Thank you, Minister of Finance of the Czech Republic Alena Schillerová. Words will be taken by the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Petr Vrána. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, honourable members of the government, honourable Members, honourable Members. Government bill amending Act No. 178/2005 Sb., on the abolition of the National Property Fund of the Czech Republic and on the powers of the Ministry of Finance in privatisation of the Czech Republic, described Ms Schillerová in an exhaustive manner. However, allow me to reiterate and emphasise the fundamental meaning of the proposal, in which the conclusions of Government Resolution No. 610 of 4 September 2017 The aim of the proposal is to eliminate the risks associated with the lack of funds in special privatisation accounts, to remove surplus expenditure titles from special privatisation accounts that have never been used, to allow the transfer of the necessary amount of funds from state budget resources in the event of a lack of funds in special privatisation accounts and to allow the transfer of all residual funds in the management of special privatisation accounts to the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you for the release of the bill to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate for which I have four applications so far. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Ferjenčík, will be prepared with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be frank that it is not so much about privatization income today, because these are minimal, but they are relatively regular dividends mainly from CEZ, but also from CEZ, MERO, profits from Budvar - I don't know what I forgot. [[He's looking at the news desk.]] Thank you. Madam Secretary has it in the pie chart, so he can confirm my words. Not by chance, the legislator in the past wanted those funds to be involved in the pension account only in a situation where the pension account is in deficit, so that we would not involve them when the pension account is in surplus. The surplus pension account is always, when the economy is extremely successful, it is underemployed, it grows wages - so logically the pension account gets into surplus. This is because, if the economy is going well, we are going into investment activity, not to transfers to the population. I stress that I have no objection to the increase in pensions that we mentioned here at the last point, but I believe that the government should have found the resources to increase pensions in the state budget balance and not look for them in an additional privatisation account. It will also be necessary to valorize next year, over the next year it will also need to valorize and we cannot expect sustainable growth. Something like this in the market economy is not possible. What are we going to do when the economic cycle changes and we get into recession? The government's investment policy is already very irresponsible, I dare say. While the government is circling regions, promises mountains, mines, black forests in every region, as roads will be, as schools, kindergartens as everything will be, but let's say openly this year, in an extraordinary year of boom, the government is investing by 24 billion. less than we are, for example. We invested in 2012 during the economic crisis. Because the real government priorities are somewhere else. If I take this to the percentage of total spending, so while in 2012, in times of crisis, that means much higher unemployment, much more mandatory unemployment-related benefits, we were able to invest almost 10 percent of the total investment expenditure, so this year's government, in times of extraordinary boom, invests, as I have already said, by 24 billion. less, which is a little over 6 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget, which is a dramatically low number. The moment the funds from the privatisation fund are transferred to a simple state budget balance, this unfavorable number is even slightly reduced. For these reasons, as I said, I believe there is no rational reason to transfer these funds to the population's transfers, but to leave them to investment activity, and I propose rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u7	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I've noted the motion to dismiss. We will continue with Mr Ferjenčík's speech. Before he arrives, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, an apology to Mr Jakub Michálek from 11.45 for working reasons until the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal illustrates very well what is happening when legislation initiates Mr Babiš's PR department instead of being created on the basis of a need. Mr. Babiš wants to look good in the media, so he increases pensions. That's logical. He promised before the election, no one blamed him, no one even suggested rejecting the law. So be it. At the same time, Mr Babiš wants to look good in the media, so he needs a budget in black numbers, a pension account in black. But the money isn't real. Well, he figured out that he's gonna take the money that's intended for investment, dump into the state budget like a regular income, he's gonna be in black, and he's gonna show off that he's a great landlord who went back down the hallway at the Treasury and found a few billion. That's exactly what this law does. The law normally allows you to finance even the pensions, only first Mr. Babiš would have to admit that it brought it to a negative, that he got the system into red numbers. And he'd have to admit that before it was possible to include that money from state-owned companies' income there. But instead of admitting it, he wants to include them in the front, like he's in black. But it's just an accounting trick. The exact same accounting trick as when he took the money out of the reserves and put it in the state budget again to reduce state debt. Exactly the same accounting trick he does in a whole bunch of other areas. And we as pirát disagree that state policy should be determined by some PR department of a political party and that laws be made so that some accounting trick can be done. That is why we completely disagree with this law. We believe that one-off revenues from state-owned firms or what is left of privatization are to be used for one-off expenses. It is perfectly logical that if it is to cost some extraordinary income to spend it in a way that will be one-off and that will somehow be extraordinarily usable, perhaps it will bring some kind of return in the future. Putting this money in the state budget as a regular income is, in our opinion, total nonsense. Moreover, there is a risk that there will not be enough money to remove environmental burdens, which, in our view, is far more important than making Mr Babiš look good in the press when he reports on the state budget. So we really think this law is totally purposeful. It's for the purpose of accounting tricks. We do not agree with this, and we think that the revenues from privatisation and revenue from the revenues of state-owned companies should be used very carefully, one-timely, preferably for investment. We support the motion to dismiss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u9	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, my colleague Skopeček will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the Mayors and Independents Club, to comment on the amendment to the law. This amendment addresses a situation where it wants to simplify the transfer of money from the privatisation account to the state budget, while at the same time abolishing certain links, e.g. to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. In our opinion, it's not right. On the contrary, such a link would need to be further deepened and allowed to transfer the funds to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. The state of transport infrastructure is what it is and will not improve without sufficient resources, given its essential importance for the development of the economy. And it should be a priority. After all, it was also said by economist Aleš Michl, who is an advisor to the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, who says that it is necessary to invest in infrastructure at a time of growth, which is important for our economic growth. That is why we are very surprised that at a time of growth, the government does not want to create reserves for worse times and wants to use them one-timely on needs that grow very quickly and when one idea alternates with the other. That is why we think it is necessary to create reserves for worse times, first of all, or invest in infrastructure, which is important for our economic growth, and we are joining the proposal that has fallen here, and that is the proposal for rejection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr. Jan Skopeček, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u12	Thank you very much. I also wanted to make a motion for refusal at first reading, so I am joining the original proposal by my colleague Kalousek. I think that's exactly how the government wants to approach public finances. We have, or we hear rumors about how successful it is, how very fiscally responsible it will be. Since the YES movement, we hear that they are actually the right-wing party, that they have a big penetration with the right-wing agenda to come at a time of economic growth, when they are to generate surpluses in state finances, which they are not, because we have already approved another budget with a deficit, although we already have several years of economic growth, but even those deficit budgets are not enough, they still want to touch on the money that we have here from privatisation, which we have here from the extraordinary income that flows from dividends from state-owned enterprises into the privatisation fund. After all, this should be money intended primarily for a period of crisis, for a period when the economy will go down, when there will be a lower tax collection, when our public spending will be over what it can do at the moment when the economy is at the bottom, it will stand to collect. At such a moment, I can imagine that the government will come and ask the Chamber of Deputies that there is an emergency situation and that it needs additional revenue. However, I do not understand this when we have economic growth, when we are ahead of us, and we talked about it a while ago, when we have a long time before us, or the whole political spectrum has a great task ahead of us to prepare pension reform, and it is clear that if the pension reform does not affect existing pensioners, it will need to be financed from extraordinary sources for some time. That's why this fund was created. That is why this fund exists. And I don't understand the government at all, or I would like to hear from the Minister why the ambition is to touch on extraordinary means, for which the state has always calculated to use them in an extraordinary situation, why it wants them in the state budget in years when the economy is doing well and when the budgets of our public finances, virtually. deficits are decreasing. I do not fully understand the explanatory memorandum accompanying the law, because in the explanatory memorandum, we can read that the state has very high commitments to address environmental damage to previously privatized enterprises, even being quantified there. Those commitments are very high. It is said that, in the current legislation, these environmental damage can only be covered by the money in this budget. Half or three quarters of the explanatory report is about how it is necessary to prevent spending this money, because it would not have to be on commitments that are already contracted, and the state would have to pay fines. Even there, the Treasury is proposing that it will stop subsidizing investment incentives from this account, which is definitely something I agree with. But we are reading the whole explanatory report on how this fund is threatened with cash flow as far as funds are concerned, and then there is the last point where the government is complaining that at a time when it collects more money on pension insurance than it currently needs to spend on pensions, so that it cannot use these funds and that it is a terrible mistake and why, like that money, it is somewhere in the accounts, when it could be dissolved into the state budget, from which the government seems to want to pay extra officials, because when we look at the statistics of investment, we find that apart from receiving other bureaucrats, the government did not do much in investment. So I want to ask the Minister why the contradiction in the explanatory memorandum, why the three quarters of the report show how the system needs to be protected, because there are huge commitments to remedy environmental damage, why he even suggests that, for example, the investment incentives are not going to go for this, which I would agree with the Minister, but then he suggests that even at a time when more money is collected for pensions and there is no need to touch this fund, the government still wants to dissolve the money into the state budget and probably spend it on additional operating expenses. It is an example of total dilettantism in access to public finances. Now is exactly the time when we should be saving for worse times. There is a time when we should be saving for future pension reform, with which I do not hope this government will come, but some other undoubtedly, and that pension reform will certainly cost money, and that money needs to be protected. In the explanatory memorandum, you can read for yourself in the reasoning that the preparation of legislation on the privatisation of state assets between 1990 and 1991 was based on the political economic assumption that the proceeds from the sale of state assets and participating interests would be specially protected, separated from the state budget and determined by tax how they could be used. I think it was the right and smart thinking of the people who were preparing privatization, that it would simply be separated from the state budget account on which the money will be collected, and will be used with great care and only for things that make sense. I think spending it on other operating expenses is pointless and must be saved. That is why I am signing up to reject this law, and I also ask colleagues from the ANO movement who are otherwise verbally and medialy talking about the need to save and how responsible it is to treat public finances in order to support this rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u13	Thank you, Mr Skopečka. First of all, allow me to state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Mr František Vácha from 12 to 18 o'clock. I now have two applications, Mr Farský and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. And Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in an absolutely unique period of exceptional growth, when the economy is working, when companies have contracts where unemployment is low and the contributions to the state budget are unprecedented, indeed, a period that is excellent that lasts, but it is certain that it will not last forever. At this time, it is owned by every good economic operator that it does not spend reserves, but rather creates reserves. This step, when we want to release reserves that would be precisely for those moments when it will be on the state budget to help with investment, to promote employment, to dissolve funds between people, so that the use and exhaustion of the fund will not be those options at the moment. It's irresponsible to the near future that, whether we want it or not, just happens. Economic cycles work, and when the economy works like this, we can't count on it to work like this all the time. Yet you obviously have the strength to disband the National Property Fund and its finances have been used for this government's budgetary priorities. I'd like to remind you of one here and put in a good word for her. All of us, as we ran for the Chamber of Deputies, said before the elections that education, education, should be the main priority of the state. I think it's a good thing we said that, because the really only real highway to prosperity is education. And so if this money is to be released from the National Property Fund, let them go into education, let them go to education, because it is in fact the best way to ensure that pensions are financed. If wages grow fast enough and, of course, the educated workforce grows, it also allows our ongoing pension system to be financed. If, at this stage, we run out of one-off payment reserves, which we all would like, and of course everyone would like to add to all the needs, but it is short-sighted and irresponsible for the future. In this, I would intercede if you applied that power and cancel the National Property Fund so that the funds that the state budget gets out of it go into education, because that's the best investment we can make. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u16	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Prime Minister, nice members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. For us as citizens, it is not crucial whether the National Property Fund will be retained or cancelled. For us, what's going to happen with the money is crucial so that we don't get to the positions we don't have in this debate. This means that we reject this bill is not that we want to preserve the National Property Fund at all costs. And the first point I want to make. In recent days, I have noted a memorandum in the media presented to the public by the Minister of Transport that he is considering a 100-billion-dollar loan for the construction of transport infrastructure by the European Investment Bank. Now I will note that such a large long-term commitment should not be accepted by the government in demise, but in principle, investment in infrastructure is a matter that should have political support. And let's talk about which financial instrument is better or better for the Czech Republic and for the state budget. We're ready for this debate. So, for example, if this bill said "we're going to cancel the National Property Fund and we're going to use the money in the transport infrastructure with a plan to use it," I think the debate would be completely different. The second option is what my previous speaker, Mr Farský, said to use it in education. So the key part of the debate is what we're going to use the money for, not whether or not the fund stays or stays with the restrictions that are set out in the current law for drawing resources. I'm from the Moravian-Silesian Region, and I'm sure we can agree that the old environmental burden is something that needs to be dealt with. I've got a few numbers here. I hope they're right. In 27 years of dealing with this, the state spent around 61.6 billion out of the total amount of old environmental burdens, which is 2.3 billion. on average per year. Of course, in the last three years, the draw is roughly one third of the average. This means that the state's expenditure on the removal of old environmental burdens has dropped dramatically to 0.7 billion on average. annual, i.e. In the last three years, it's roughly 2.1 billion. And according to the commitments of the '90s, something about 90 billion remains unfinished. I understand that this number isn't right, it's too high, I'm not defending the number, but the amount is really high. Among other things, resources from the National Property Fund were used to eliminate old environmental burdens. It's in contracts between the State and the acquirer of the property. The contracts were 260. [[a few words unintelligible]] I think there's over 300 of them after the property structure has changed. And what is important is that the competition to eliminate environmental burdens cannot and does not do and must not do the acquirer of the property, but the State, virtually. Ministry of Finance. If we move at this rate as we have in the last three years, clear mathematics will prove that we will remove the old environmental burdens by 2100. I don't think any of us want that. And one of the questions raised in this bill: how will the removal of old environmental damage be financed? What exactly is the state's strategy? I understand that in 2018 the view is different than in the early 1990s. But there's a strategy that the state should choose. And he should know how to get the old environmental burdens to be removed. There's no such bill. Rather, it worries that in the coming years, when we ask questions, and one from which political party and from which region, what will cost to remove old environmental burdens, can be the answer: there is no money. And the fact that it wasn't a priority is also seen in the drawing over the past three years. Of course, I don't know why it was so low. Perhaps there are objective reasons that in those years it was less than three-quarters of a billion on average. I really don't want to criticize that. But the fact is, in the last three years, 2.1 billion. and dozens of billions of unsolved environmental burdens remain. And that's not DIAMO in the statistics, and that's what the DIAMO deals with. That's another chapter on the whole issue. So, in our opinion, it is better not to cancel the fund at this point, to have a political debate on how to use the funds, to have a political debate on whether to expand the possibilities of using the money so that the law is not so strict. That's all there is to it. But in our opinion, it can't be done in second reading. In my opinion, there must be a broader agreement, a longer plan, how to estimate the future revenues that are logically falling into the fund for environmental burdens, such as the financing of transport infrastructure, and to address this issue in the whole context. Otherwise, we will empty the fund, the money will be released this year or next year, but the issue of financing environmental burdens or transport infrastructure or education will remain unanswered. And if I wanted to tease the Prime Minister, as if I wanted to, I'd say to him, you said a few weeks ago that you found 170 billion. in the budget. Well, I'm sure you don't need what's in that National Property Fund this year. We've already explained to the Minister of Finance that it isn't. I understand. I agreed with the Secretary of Finance on this. I was just saying to discuss it with you, that you said you found 170 free billions. They're obviously not available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u17	Thank you. With a point of fact, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is registered. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u18	Hello, thank you for your word. I am sorry that Mr Stanjura, an important member of the budget committee, says here that I have found 167 billion. Why do you speak so demagogically when you know it's unused expenses? That they're budgets from past years that haven't spent those resorts that still want more and more and then aren't able to spend? Please, environmental burdens. I'm so glad you're talking about this. The first question is, why did you ever put a promise here on those environmental burdens? You sold the companies for a mouthful, traditional democratic parties - there's a representative here. [[A Member of Kalousek is reporting for a word in the stand right now. There's laughter in the part of the hall.]] And they didn't do it in Slovakia. In Slovakia, all companies paid for it themselves. You sold it for a kiss, and the representative here had prepared the biggest rip-off, environmental contract. And we proved, after I came in, that someone wanted to steal $30 billion. Trick or treat. So today we're buying it for a quarter, the environmental stuff. A quarter! And I'd be happy to show you. We presented it, it's an open tender. And of course, the National Property Fund, well, it's long gone. And now we've learned that there's a law that's blocked us 21 billion. And I want to assure you that the money, the media is saying it goes on pensions, they're going into the budget. And if you want to hear it, they'll go to the transport infrastructure. 'Cause Took wants 26 billion extra in there. So if you're happy and 21 billion goes into the budget and you go on highways and bypasses, you can't have a problem with that, you know! And the absurdity that we have the National Property Fund and why it happened, why we learned that we have a law that should have been abolished long ago, because we were in surplus. [[Attention on time.]] We were in surplus with pensions. And that's why they blocked it. Yes? And you know it. So a while ago, we approved pensions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u19	Thank you. We must keep time for each of the speakers, even for you. So please end your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u20	So the money goes to the highway, into the budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u21	Thank you. The order is now as follows: with a factual remark, President Stanjura, with the priority right of Secretary Schillerová and President Kalousek, is signed. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u22	Well, the question is, why am I saying it so demagogically? That's not what I'm saying, Prime Minister. That's what I read in the paper that you said. That you found free money. I know they're not there. We made that clear with the secretary here last time. That's not what I'm saying. That's what you're saying. Then don't blame me. It's not my fault I read your statement in the press. Well, that's not my opinion or... About the privatization. Well, I wasn't on either side of privatization in the '90s. Not all of us can say it either sold or bought from the state. I'm sure you didn't. [[12.10 hours]] What did you say? So if the money goes to the Transport Infrastructure Fund, I'm talking about it. That's a good use of the money. But if we transfer them there this year, it is certain that the money is not invested this year, that it will be in unused expenses and next year the Prime Minister will come if he is there, and he will say: I found 30 billion, these are the unused expenses that the ministries have not spent. But the bill doesn't say that, for example, it's 25 billion. has transferred transport infrastructure to the Fund. That would be a completely different debate than sending them without the bow, without a specific determination to that large state budget of 1,350 billion. expenditure. And if it's not governed by law, then that government, whatever government, has it all to do with how it's going to use the money. If in education, in transport, in pensions, in the salaries of officials, it doesn't really matter. And I said for us that we'd like to debate the use of the money, let the law determine where the money goes, simplify the rules, or cancel it. We do not support the current situation, which is quite complicated, the law is outdone, and I said all of this that we agree with. But we don't agree with how it's written now, and I don't think it can be fixed as part of a second reading. I think we need to start over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just let you all know what the order of the speakers will be. Mr Ferjenčík will speak with a factual remark, and then Minister Schillerová would prefer the Prime Minister, so that President Kalousek, the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, will speak before him, followed by Minister Schillerová. That is what it is now, and Mr Ferjenčík will speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm very serious. Mr. Ing. Babiš wrote on April 8th at 21.30 on his Facebook - he may not know because it was probably someone else who actually did it. [[Laughter from the right]] "After the government's analysis, we found 1. 1. 2018 total 170 billion. koruna, which is spent money from past budgets and ministries are unable to spend it this year." Don't be mad at me, Mr. Criminally prosecuted Prime Minister in resignation, I think this sentence suggests that you have 170 billion in your accounts somewhere that you can't even spend this year, so you can raise expenses somewhere else. Mr. Stanjura really didn't make it up, you wrote it on your Facebook page. That maybe you're not fixing it, it's none of our business! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u25	President Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u26	Thank you for the floor. It's just a reaction to Mr. Criminally prosecuted Prime Minister's demise. Indeed, even what he just said, not only what he wrote on his Facebook page, he evokes that it was money that those resorts couldn't spend. That means everyone who hears this feels like there's some money lying around, and since they haven't been spent, they're available. All of us who know the budgetary rules a little bit, we know that it is not that the unused expenditure is an accounting item, but it is not covered by real income. The vast majority of that amount of less than 170 billion are budgeted funds that the ministries thought would exhaust the European Union's programmes, that money would be spent, so logically they were spent as expenditure, and since the ministries did not spend nearly as much as they thought they would draw, so the money was not spent, but of course they did not. Just beyond the 165 billion, there's no real money available. After all, if they were, it would also be possible to finance an increase in pensions and would not have to repeal the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund. That's the second nonsense the Prime Minister said. Since we are not disturbing the National Property Fund, it was abolished in 2005, but was abolished by the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund. At the time when the fund was being disrupted, the legislator wanted the money left behind from privatisation to be subject to a special regime so that it could not be squandered on any tastes of future irresponsible finance ministers or prime ministers. So they only managed to protect themselves there for very specific purposes. Of course, we can talk about the fact that if the National Cultural Treasure Financing Programme ends in 2018, some other investments will instead be financed. I can imagine this discussion. But I can't imagine it being put at the government's disposal so she doesn't have to spare. That's very irresponsible. As for the personal attacks that the Prime Minister has traditionally taken against me here, I would just like to say that - firstly - in the 1990s or until 2005, that is, I did not participate in any privatisation process. The contracts signed by the National Property Fund are 1993 and undertake to carry out environmental audits. And he always loves to say that I've committed the biggest scam in history, the big environmental contract. And the big environmental contract was an honest attempt to see if it would be possible to get an advantageous offer that would pre-finance and address the environmental burden in a central way not in 80 years, but in ten years. Given that the government didn't receive such an offer, the government canceled the tender on my proposal because it didn't assess any of the offers as advantageous. These are evidenceable steps, and I wonder what was wrong with the fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u27	Thank you. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will now speak, after whom will Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm really enjoying the appearance of a responsible former finance minister, who took money from senior citizens, civil servants, all of them, and also chopped up the debts of CZK 670 billion. You're number one, Mr. Former Minister! Six hundred and seventy billion! You'll say you had a crisis. But in my head, I guess! So you were responsible. And if you're not applying to privatization, you've been in politics since 1990, or where you've been at the Office of the Government, you're not talking your way out of that ecology. That was your business, and luckily Prime Minister Nečas canceled it for you. You and your friends wanted to make $30 billion there. ♪ And a lady ♪ Zbořilová can show you how we're shopping today. Those aren't outside lawyers under government cover like you did. No, these are open competitions, even with their own forces. And the privatisation. Yes, we keep going, and I don't see why environmental burdens, and they're all in the Treasury Department, the only one left on Diamo - those Ostrava lagoons where I looked into that hole where there's two and a half billion crowns, and I didn't see them! Forty letters I wrote to Mládek to show them to me. Now we've stopped some idea again, some threesome. Betrayal had the money for it. While the citizens of Ostrava are waiting for the Ostrava lagoons, hopefully we can fix this. So I'm just saying, in the past, they should never have given compensation for environmental burdens the way they did in Slovakia. That's where the companies paid for it themselves. And, of course, we're going to continue today, and I think we're going very successfully. [[12.20 hours]] Well, Mr. Ferjenčík, yeah, well, it's hard to explain, if you don't understand, the demands. Even Mr Kalousek shocks me by being Minister of Finance, and here he is brutally lying that the 167 billion claims have no financial cover. You can't be serious! Why do you say that, a lie like that? You know that it's budget money that has cover and that hasn't been spent. And try to teach it to a colleague of Ferjenčík. Yeah, that was on my Facebook page. Yes! I've been pointing that out every year. It's neutralized money that those resorts didn't spend. In the past, I have referred to this as the Minister of Finance. And why don't they spend it? Well, maybe because we have great laws in terms of investment that we're investing so fast. Of course I mean it ironically. So we've done an analysis of the unused claims, yes, and we've negotiated with individual ministers, and we've identified 8.3 billion money that we can spend in 2018. Those $3 billion to fix roads II. and III. classes. So it would be a good idea if you took a course that's unexploited demands, how it works. I recommend Director Tyll, he's an expert. And I'm not questioning it. It's not like we've discovered anything. We knew, and everyone... Nobody cared. Well, now we've been through this, and of course we have a lot of demagogy, they're protesting some... The students will come to me on Friday for supposedly taking teachers on a fare. That's nonsense. Three hundred million exchange rate profits. I don't know if that means anything to you. But we had some crown for twenty-seven, now it's twenty-five. And we have a exchange rate profit that occurred at the Ministry of Education. And we're going to use that 300 million additionally in 2018 for what, of course, we have priority. So that the National Property Fund ended 2005, yes. What about the privatization account? How did we actually fund pensions? How did we finance them? Well, we financed them mainly from dividends, didn't we? Strange operation. And now we wanted to clear it, which is why we especially want the pension account that you once canceled. There were two attempts. We want it to be transparent. And since we've gotten into the overhang with pensions of 2018, so within the framework of this law that somebody forgot, that privatization account, they've blocked it for us. And again for Mr. Stanjura, the $21 billion goes into the budget! So you can choose from the next budget where it ends. It's not that it's allocated to pensions. That goes into the budget. So if Mr. Stanjur is okay with that, it's on the freeway! So what did we do in the past? First of all, we fixed the state companies. Where the last minister of former finance was rewarded by the airport manager. How much was that? Three hundred mil? I forgot. Or how you misplaced that land for $4 billion. Scandalous! The other track we want to finally build. There, look what you left behind. And I fixed the airport! I saved the ČSA, too, which was before bankruptcy. And the airport's paying us dividends for the privatisation account. And the money goes into the budget for the pensions and salaries of the teachers. Yes? So all we want to do is cancel this senseless system of law so that the money flows right into the budget. [[unintelligible]] And the environmental burden? Well, they'll have money from the budget, too. Why should we have a special account for that? So I'd like you to try to understand that, and if we actually accept it, because if we come up with a budget and you criticize us, of course, there are resources that are blocked senselessly and that belong to the budget. And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Members of Parliament, especially in the left side of the Chamber of Deputies, for it is not always possible to hear what the speaker says at the speaker's desk. The Prime Minister's appearance raised several factual points. With factual remarks, President Kalousek, Mr Ferjenčík, Mrs Kovářová, will speak in this order. President Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u30	Thank you. I'd really like to know, Prime Minister, if you really don't know, or if you know and you're lying on purpose. I'd be willing to bet with you if you paid the bet. You losers don't pay your bets. The koruna of this year's budget revenue is not in the balance against the so-called unused expenditure. Yes, resorts for a purpose can touch them. But when they touch them, the deficit increases, or it has to be saved somewhere else. But there is no crown of real budget revenue that should now cover something called unused expenditure. That means the money doesn't have a cover! Again, I'd be willing to bet you. Yes, they may be issued, but then it will be at the expense of the deficit or some other expense that the revenue is covered. You're just lying to us here! And you're lying to the public when you say it's not going to be a fare at the expense of other items. Bud! You're lying to the ecology as well. There is simply material still in the government, where the Minister of Finance Kalousek proposes not to accept and cancel the tender. No Prime Minister has ever stopped me. It is not possible in the normal democratic governance of the country. The Prime Minister is not a senior minister, but you probably haven't figured that out yet! I'm afraid your ministers haven't figured it out either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u31	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u32	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I object to you training us here from how it supposedly works and doesn't work. I was just pointing out that you're finding billions somewhere, we didn't invent it from the opposition, and that you're writing it on Facebook. I've alerted you to the fact that you've written it down, so don't turn against it when we warn you that you're still out there finding billions of dollars walking down the halls. So I reacted purely to this. And I'm begging for the invectives! I think you should work rather than make up and make PR arrangements to make the result of your management look better than it is real. You just take money that's intended for investment and arose in some reserve in past years, you put it in the budget to look like you have a surplus, and you could brag about being the best landlord in the world. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u33	Mrs Kovářová, her point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister not to tell Members that they do not understand anything. I must say that my colleague Ferjenčík is one of the members of the budget committee in force. I also do not consider myself an expert in the state budget, such as the Prime Minister, because he has the experience of the Minister of Finance. He had a big team for it, so I understand he probably understands best of us. As for the unused expenses. We have already pointed that out, Prime Minister, when approving the state budget. When we found 15 billion to raise teachers' salaries, you said there were no unused expenses. We also wanted money for kindergarten, monuments and local communications. That was just change. You also said there was no money. And you gave us the opportunity to choose what we wanted the money for. So I've been telling you, I think, for the fifth year. We want money in kindergarten because there's no place in kindergarten. We want money to raise teachers' salaries, we want memories and elementary schools. So I hope, Prime Minister, if you don't find any other spending that you're talking about, I hope you'll prepare a state budget so that those priorities that our state needs are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u35	Thank you. Minister Schillerová will now speak in the general debate. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more time. There's been a lot said here, so I'm going to limit myself in a matter of fact, so, on the basis of the debate again, without addressing any previous speakers, I'm going to explain what this amendment is about. I have prepared a pie that actually shows - confirms the words of some opposition Members - how this account is structured. I'm pointing it to the right, to the left, to the front. This means that 63 percent actually constitute a transfer to the State budget to cover the pension account deficit. To a large extent today, these are dividends from state companies, as I have named them, ČEZ, ČEPRO, MERO and Český Aeroholding. What's the point? The money from the privatisation account has been transferred to the state budget since 2011. It just happened to us for the first time that it couldn't be right now, so many of my predecessors - in fact, in my predecessors, this money was being transferred to the state budget. And now we just can't do it because it's said in the law that it can be used to pay the pension deficit, and he's just, world wondering, in surplus. That's all we want. We want the money to be transferred to the state budget as it has been transferred regularly since 2011. This will make them part of the state budget and will be budgeted for in the budget of 2019, so there will be a debate on this. Of course, now to bind in this law in some way to transfer this money, it has never been done since 2011, so why should we do it now. This is the only reason for this change in order to eliminate the accumulation of funds in the privatisation account and allow the transfer to the state budget, and it will apply there. They shall apply in accordance with the priorities of this government. And I would like to assure everyone that we are beginning to work on the budget of 2019 and investment is an absolute priority for us and we have the funding ready for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u37	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Kalousek and Mr Ferjenčík after him will respond to your speech with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u38	Thank you. In the sentence that it's for the deficit, it's the joke, Madam Secretary. Yes, in times of economic bad times, privatization money or dividend money can be used, of course, also for urgent needs from the transfer of the population, which certainly are pensions. That makes sense. It doesn't make sense at a time when the account is in surplus. I'm saying again, no one's stopping you from raising pensions if it's your first priority, but then you have to save it in your own consumption and not touch the money you can't touch when there's an account in surplus. You guys just get this stop that's logical and it's been put there thoughtfully so that the money can't be used in a time of extraordinary abundance so that it can't be transferred to the budget because it won't always take, so that's why the stop is there, and you want to get rid of it and you just want to spend it. And don't say they're for pensions, because there should be money for pensions that you spend unnecessarily somewhere else. That's just money for your government consumption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u39	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík withdrew his factual comment. I have no one else in the general debate. The President of Kalousek is reporting in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u40	I'm sorry. I need five minutes before the final vote for the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u41	After the final words, Mr. Chairman, or now? Okay, thank you. I am ending the general debate. I ask if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. He doesn't. Madam Secretary? He's also not interested in the final word. At this point, I am declaring a break until 12.40 pm for the TOP 09 meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u42	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 12:40 a.m. and we will continue to discuss this point. Before we proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled, I will introduce you to my apologies. Within 13 hours, Vice-President Okamura apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and Mrs Válková apologises from 12.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. We interrupted the negotiations at the time when the general debate was closed and the final words were, or not, spoken. Since a proposal to reject this government bill has been tabled in the general debate, we will therefore now vote on this motion to reject it. I have called in Members from the lobby, and I think we are ready to vote. There is, however, a request for a check-out that I am in favour of. I checked you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. We are now really ready for the vote. We shall vote on the rejection of the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It is vote number 121, registered 137 Members, for 55, against 62. The motion was denied. This means that we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First of all, we will deal with the motion for a commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has been proposed by the Budget Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm asking if anyone is suggesting another committee as a guarantee committee. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It is vote number 122, registered 138 Members, for 134, against none. I note that the proposed proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal for discussion to another committee. Is any of the Members suggesting otherwise, please? Yes, Mrs Pekarová Adamová reporting. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u43	I think, given that this is related to pensions, we should still discuss this in the Committee on Social Policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-003-033.u44	Yes, I'm registering your proposal. Is there another motion on the commandment of the committee, please? If not, we will vote on this proposal. It is also about the Social Policy Committee dealing with the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 123. 138 Members are registered, for 149, against 4. [[correct 49]] The motion has not been approved. Therefore, we have not approved the negotiations in any other committee. The proposal will be dealt with only by the Budget Committee as a guarantee committee. I note that there has not been a proposal in the debate to shorten or extend the deadline, so I am ending the first reading and discussion of this point. Opening point number
