ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain business conditions and on the performance of certain tourism activities, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 12/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, for the Ministry of Regional Development, to present the Government's bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism. The draft law in question transposes the EU Directive No. 2015/2302, on package travel services and related travel services. The national transposition regulation should take effect by 1 July 2018 at the latest. The adoption of a bill is necessary to fulfil the obligation to the European Union. If the regulation is not notified in due time, the Commission may initiate infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic. [[14.40 hours]] The draft law is greatly influenced by the requirement of full harmonisation of the directive, which means that, unless explicitly stated in the directive, it cannot be derogated from its provisions. The main objective of the abovementioned directive, which is reflected in the proposed legal regulation, is the unification of rules for tours and associated travel services within the internal market of the European Union, which will also increase consumer protection standards. This will strengthen not only the internal market within the European Union, but also customers' confidence in cross-border purchases thanks to comparable conditions in individual Member States. The directive provides for a requirement for Member States to ensure full - i.e. 100% - payment of the legal claims of clients of travel agencies in the event of their bankruptcy at tours and associated travel services, respectively. the part of these services that the client pays directly to the travel agency that provides them. In order to fulfil this task, the activities carried out by the guarantee fund of travel agencies shall be adapted. The operation of the guarantee fund is provided by the State Housing Development Fund. Travel agents will pay a contribution to this fund, which should cover any legal claims of clients beyond the limit of the insurance contract. This solution was found compatible with the directive and the public support rules by the European Commission and agreed with it. On 12 December 2017 At its 4th meeting, the Chamber of Deputies approved the government bill at first reading and ordered the bill to be discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. He discussed the Government's bill on 31 January 2018 and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill as amended by the amendments. The most fundamental of these amendments is the proposal to reduce the maximum amount of the contribution to the guarantee fund of travel agencies from the original amount of 0.25 % of the sales for tours and associated travel services to 0,1 %, with which we as the Ministry agree. The second amendment concerned legislative technical adaptations. The Government's bill is fully compatible with EU regulations and the proposal has no impact on the state budget. The costs will be covered by the Ministry's budget resources. I believe that, given the need for the adoption of a government proposal, this is particularly due to the transposition nature of the law and the risk of sanctions by the EU Court of Justice, the Chamber of Deputies will approve the government bill at second reading. At the same time, allow me to express a huge thank-you to all the MPs who really showed a great deal of willingness to discuss the law, so we were able to discuss it with all of them. So I would like to ask once again for approval and submission by third reading so that the legislative process for the adoption of the law can be completed as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 12/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Adam Kalous, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, Madam Government, honourable Members, allow me, therefore, to present a report on the Government's bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain business conditions and on the pursuit of certain tourism activities, as amended, and other related laws. On 12 December 2017, the Government Bill was approved by the Chamber of Deputies at its 4th meeting in the first reading. Subsequently it was discussed with representatives of ČSSD, STAN, Pirates and also with TOP 09. On 31 January 2018, the draft law was then discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee, including the amendment I tabled. The amendment concerned a reduction of travel agents' contribution to the guarantee fund from 0.25 % to 0,1 % from the base. This amount of the contribution appears to be sufficient, taking into account the other measures to ensure a sufficient amount of the bankruptcy guarantee contained in the Act. The proposed amount of the contribution, i.e. to a maximum of one tenth of a percent of the base, will be sufficient to fulfil the purpose for which the Fund is set up. The funds will be paid out of the Fund only if the limit on insurance claims and the bank guarantee is not sufficient to pay the legal financial claims of the clients. Moreover, the reduction in the maximum amount of the contribution corresponds to the current market situation and will ultimately entail lower costs for travel agents. The resolution approved by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development reads: After the introductory words of the Minister for Regional Development, Mr Klára Dostálová and Mr Adam Kalous's report and after the debate, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development recommends that the Chambers of Deputies discuss and approve the amendments adopted. Finally, I propose a shortening of the time limit for committee discussions between second and third readings, from 14 to 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. On this point, I am opening a general debate in which Vice-President Okamura, who I do not see at the moment, has first signed up with priority rights. I see! You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the proposed amendment to Act 159 on Tourism. We see, of course, the introduction of a guarantee fund as an obstacle to the business of travel agencies forced by insurance companies, which, without a guarantee fund or guarantee from the State, would have stopped offering the insurance product, and unfortunately we were in a situation that travel agencies could not operate. From this point of view, in order not to be accused here as last time that I didn't report a conflict of interest, I don't have a conflict of interest in a personal business because I don't have a travel agent. I'm just an agent at a travel agency. So I'd just like to clarify that for those who don't know professionally about the subject and say that I have some sort of conflict of interest. I'm not in this business at all, nor am I in bankruptcy insurance, which means we don't have to do as a travel agency. So I just want to be more specific. Alternatively, if it is considered a conflict of interest that I am in charge of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and Travel Agencies, I am honestly reporting it here. But I don't have a personal business in this area at all. It's just to illustrate, to respond to the debate from last time. It is therefore a problem that travel agencies have been under the pressure of insurance companies, despite the fact that the existing wording of the law requires a clear obligation for travel agencies to have a sufficient level of insurance. Therefore, to so-called. Sub-insurance could only occur in the event of fraudulent conduct and breach of the law, and even the fraudulent conduct is already very difficult under the current conditions, since insurance companies receive a report of the activities of travel agencies each month under the current rules and can simply evaluate the activities and developments of sales themselves. On the basis of the current situation, therefore, we have no choice but to agree with the outcome of the negotiations of the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which discussed this amendment at its meeting on 31 January, and unanimously adopted the amendment for second reading, where it is true, what we said to the Minister, that we would agree and therefore submit a compromise amendment after agreement. This has happened, so, of course, in this respect, I must thank the Minister for the YES movement for taking the issue according to agreement and forehead, and I think it is a good thing that we can also agree here through the political spectrum. The amendment takes into account the long-term requirement of the Association of Travel Agents and Agencies to reduce the annual contribution to the Guarantee Fund from the proposed 0,25 % to a maximum of 0,1 % of annual travel sales. The rate of 0,1 % is a compromise option based on an agreement between the Ministry and professional organisations. [[14.50 hours]] If I go back to the beginning, I would just like to say that the Czech Republic will be the only country in the European Union to implement the guarantee fund next to Poland, without ordering the European directive. I must say, then, that unfortunately it has come to such an extent that the lobbying of insurance companies is simply stronger in this respect than in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union. And that is certainly a situation that needs to be pointed out, and I am stressing it here again, because I think that everything must have its limits mainly in comparison with other countries of the European Union, because there is a certain deviation of the relationship here, and that is certainly not a good thing. About what needs to be done. I think that, in this regard too, there is an agreement with the Minister for the ANO movement that the Ministry of Regional Development must complete the administration and functioning of the guarantee fund at the State Housing Development Fund. From this point of view, for example, the way in which funds are settled in the event of a legitimate termination of a travel agency is particularly clearly identified. Of course, the travel agency paid for the guarantee fund, put an end to business, and what about the money now? That is what I think is a clear legitimate question that needs to be actually resolved. We agree, according to my information, that the association with the Minister will be constructive, because money is money. Travel agencies have made good money, and we really can't allow any misunderstanding or uncertainty here. The functioning of the guarantee fund is necessary after the adoption of the law. That's what I just said. It would be necessary to create a professional work team. I suppose, and in this respect, I have information that the Ministry of Regional Development is once again constructive in order for representatives of professional organisations to be represented in the expert work team, as this is obviously their private money, so that would be correct. The goal is to meet the guarantee fund up to a final amount of 50 million. CZK between two years for the current number of travel agencies and sales for tours. In our opinion, the target amount must be stated in the decree, because this is of course very important. I understand that this cannot be in the law, but it is necessary to be sure that the implementation of the fund will not be endless, because that would probably really drive entrepreneurs crazy and they would be very insecure. Of course, any higher amount, and I would like to emphasise this here, and I think we have already discussed this with the Minister, would be an unacceptable burden for travel agency operators. Once again, I would just repeat that, together with Poland, we will be the only country in the European Union that has actually acceded to this system. As I was saying, we're also interested in completing the system, so what about the money when the travel agency shuts down. Like I said, it's a compromise option. We'd like to do without a guarantee fund. It's really a question of why it's actually come to this. On the other hand, there is a danger, and we know that the insurance companies have already done it in the last parliamentary term, when we were discussing an amendment to Act No. 159, that for a certain period of time simply ceased to insure travel agencies. And that was fatal, there was an absolutely incredible, unprecedented thing that no one could defend against. Action has been prevented. Travel agencies must have insurance under the law and at the same time there was no one who would have insured travel agencies under the legislation at the time. It's incredible what could have happened in a civilized country. Again, it is a solution that is very compromise. Definitely us, our SPD movement, who have freedom in the name and we are against bureaucracy, against restricting legal business, and, as far as I am concerned, I agree with this text, we will support that, but, as I say, with a heavy heart. Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister, we have discussed this for a long time, the negotiations have been helpful and I am glad that we have reached a solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Now duly entered into the general debate by Mr Martin Kupka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a very brief comment on the amendment to the tourism law that we are discussing now. Unfortunately, it is another amendment to the law that we must adopt, but we cannot be pleased with this amendment of the law. As has been said, it means additional costs for travel agents, other barriers to business and other bureaucracy. Finally, it is a proposal, as has been said, jointly acceptable, discussed repeatedly, and, as a result, a reduction of 0.1 percent of sales, it is indeed a compromise for all those who are acceptable on the market. However, it is also clear that this is a compromise that will eventually be paid by someone, and it will, of course, be clients of travel agencies whose tour prices will be reflected in this next regulation. We are trying to ensure complete security here, knowing that life is not safe, and the question is whether such expensive security with so many complications in the result is really what we are supposed to strive for. I believe that we should finally accept this as a compromise, however, for the future for similar transpositions of European directives and regulations to sound the alarm well in time, pointing out in time that this may mean additional unnecessary costs, another unnecessary bureaucracy, and defend itself from the beginning, not to address this as a phenomenon that we must face by adopting another amendment and other bureaucracies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the general debate. I don't see anyone applying. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for any final words. Madam Secretary is interested in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u10	Hello. Thank you so much for the possibility of the final word. Thank you, of course, to both previous speakers, I confirm that this is indeed a compromise proposal, but perhaps some further clarification. Of course, elsewhere in other countries they have to ensure otherwise. For example, Austria has a voluntary travel agency fund to which it contributes, and Germany limits the collection of advances, so, of course, it is compensated everywhere in some way. Otherwise, of course, I confirm that we will create an expert working group that will address the hedge scheme, or fund. Just about the amounts. It is necessary to realize that it will not be such a big hit on travel agencies, even towards customers, because the 15,000-dollar trip is about the price of CZK 15. Of course, these are not significant amounts. That's why we agreed to get it to 0.1. We will, of course, fulfill this within two years. There is a promise that it will be fulfilled, and 50 miles. He's already in the explanatory report today, but I also confirm that we will continue to deal with this, and then there will be a ministry decree with zero. That means there will be no more burden for travel agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. There was no further proposal for the possible repayment of the proposal to the guarantee committee. Let's keep going. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. At the moment, Mr Petr Třešňák, to whom I hereby give the floor, is entered into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u12	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let me briefly justify my amendment. I didn't come out of anything other than the original explanatory memorandum of the transposition itself, which in several places mentions that this law does not apply to the spa rehabilitation stays, but this did not come into the paragrafo version itself. We consider it important for this to be explicitly mentioned so that there will be no different interpretations of this law in the future. The proposal itself reads: Paragraph 1 (2) (d) is added to the activity of natural healing spas under the special law, see Act No. 164/2001 Sb. Thank you for loading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. Please allow me to draw attention to the fact that, pursuant to § 95 para. If necessary, a proposal to shorten the third reading must be submitted in a detailed debate. So I give the rapporteur the opportunity, if necessary, to reiterate his proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u14	So once again, I propose a reduction in the committee's time between second and third reading from 14 to 7 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, rapporteur. To be sure, I will ask one more time: Is anyone interested in speaking in a detailed debate? This is not the case; I am ending the debate in detail. I ask about any final words after a detailed debate. Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? They're not interested. We will therefore now vote on the proposal that has just been made, which is a reduction in the deadline for the third reading to seven days. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. I'll log out and ask you to log back in with your I.D. cards. The number of votes we have, you might say, has stabilized. We will therefore vote on the proposal that was made in the detailed debate to shorten the deadline for third reading by seven days, i.e. seven days. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? This is vote number 7. 150 Members are registered, for 104, against 24. This proposal was adopted. I thank you and end the second reading of this proposal and at the same time end this point. I'm closing. If this is a procedural proposal, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to clarify what the procedure for paragraph 4 will be, because it is a government bill amending the tax rules, its deadline for discussion was until 24th, which is Saturday, which has elapsed, the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee has discussed, the Constitutional Committee, I think, after a careful effort to discuss today between 13 and 14 o'clock, a resolution is now being drawn up which should be available today, which I propose that we interrupt this point until tomorrow at, say, 17 o'clock. Until then, we will have a resolution at our disposal for 24 hours. In case this did not happen, we would have to react in some way, because then we do not actually have a resolution of the constitutionally legal committee. I just want to clarify this matter. I know we overstepped the deadline two days ago, but I don't think it was entirely the fault of our committee, but trying to find a reasonable compromise. I would consider it right that it should be possible to study it, on the one hand, to make further proposals on the other, that the tax rules should not be included until tomorrow at 17 o'clock. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u17	I am, of course, willing myself, but the vote on the agenda of the meeting is over, we would have to agree first that it is for particularly serious reasons that we can change the agenda of the meeting even outside the deadline. I suggest we open that point and vote immediately on its interruption to the time you propose. Would you be able to accept such a suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u18	I agree with any proposal. I am merely pointing out that Paragraph 92 of the Rules of Procedure tells us that the committee's resolution, or the opposing report or the record of the committee's deliberations, will be delivered to all Members at least 24 hours before the second reading of the bill. We are in a slightly more complex situation here that we have a guarantee and another committee, and the guarantee committee has discussed, but I think this applies to other committees. If he has discussed this, the resolution is to be delivered 24 hours in advance to Members. This is more of a warning to you as President that, if such a resolution exists, you should say yourself about your will and damage: we must wait 24 hours before the possibility of individual Members to study the resolution of the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-001-001.u19	That's the kind of thing I'd probably do. Although, on the other hand, you have failed to comply with the time limit for committee discussions - others, I suppose - this should not prevent plenary discussions. But let's agree that when it comes to point number 4, I will say that for the moment the terms for his discussion are not fulfilled, and I will adjourn him. If you don't agree, we'd have to consult the presidents of all the clubs. I don't intend to force anything here, because there's obviously an agreement as to how we're going to proceed. So we still have time for some discussion. I will continue with point 3 and that is the government bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 47, second reading.
