ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u1	10. Proposal for Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue the Constitutional Act on the National referendum and to amend the Constitution of the Czech Republic /German press 35/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as press 35/1. I beg the representatives of the plaintiffs, which should be Mr Okamura. If he's not here, I'll ask the next one in line, and that's Mr. Fiala. [[He's waiting for a while.]] I am still sorry, Mr President, to be clear about the previous point. That point is interrupted, and I suggest that tomorrow in that half hour, which is intended to modify the agenda or the agenda, we resolve how we deal with it, so that everyone knows what the fate of item No. 4. And now, please, at point No. 10 Vice-Presidents of the President of the Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u2	Thank you for the floor. honourable Members, honourable Vice-President, allow me to introduce the Act on a general referendum. The Act on a General referendum is undoubtedly a natural part of our constitutional order. He is not a bogeyman on the basis of which the Czech Republic should fall into an economic and political disaster on the basis of an unreasonable choice of its citizens. On the contrary, referendum is a natural tool for letting people decide in a democratic country on the fundamental things that concern them. I have no choice but to comment surprisedly on the fact that there are topics on which so-called. ordinary people had no right to decide. The general referendum as an instrument is used by many developed countries and used effectively. It uses it in a situation where decisions need to have a strong democratic mandate. The only reason to reject a systemic referendum is because people can vote differently in some cases than political elites and media do. That's perfectly all right, isn't it? It is a legitimate defence of democracy against political elites that have been pulled away from citizens and implemented a false policy where they are trying to impose unnatural values and solutions on citizens that do not come out of the will of citizens. [[Noise in the hall.]] Vice-President, please...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u3	I'm asking for peace in the House. Please take your seats and let us all listen together to Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u4	Thank you. But such a situation is not proof of the stupidity of citizens, but merely proof that the leadership in society wants to seize false elites and are ready to abuse democracy. Abuse democracy, rob people of their taxes and reduce their freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way that our SPD movement wants to enforce a law on a general referendum in a form that would allow it to be abused to suppress rights or paralyze society. We are prepared to patiently discuss its form and parameters. We are ready to work constructively on its form, which would be truly functional and, above all, fully democratic. Such a procedure cannot frighten anyone other than political lobbyists who buy party secretariats or manipulators of transnational governance who think they can do whatever they want with the nations. People deserve a law on a general referendum. They deserve to have confidence in their responsibility. Because people are the essence of democracy, which they fulfill with their rights and obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u5	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur. This is what Mr Ferjenčík was designated for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u6	Thank you for the floor. I think that there is quite clearly a constitutional majority of Members in this House who represent the parties who have had a general referendum in the electoral programme. Jak SPD, movement YES, movement STAN, Pirates, ČSSD, KSČM. Even KDU-ČSL, if I am not mistaken, defended a general referendum in the election debates. In my opinion, this situation means that the House should actually accept the law. I think the social agreement that this law is meant to exist is significant. What doesn't match is the parameters of the law. And that is actually the most important thing we have to discuss in this House. However, I think that in order to keep our program promises, we should try to find some consensus in this congregation. [[16.40 hours]] Unfortunately, on my part, the proposal that I have the honour to report is not very consensual. I'll draw attention to the two things that are in it. The proposal allows the Constitution to be amended under the same conditions as all the other matters to which it applies. That means just pick up 100,000 signatures and then within six months - or six months, respectively, plus some time for the referendum campaign - there will be a vote on the amendment of the Constitution without any vote for participation, or a vote for votes, for example for. That's one thing that makes it possible. And the second thing that, in my view, is very problematic is that this proposal allows the government to rule without confidence through referendums. The proposal allows the government to write referendums without the approval of the Chamber of Deputies and without the need to collect the signatures. Plus there's a whole bunch of technical things where it's not clear what the president's role is. For example, whether it is a purely formal referendum or whether it is a political actor who decides which referendums will take place and which will not take place. For a number of these reasons, not only the pirát, but as I have seen in the media, many parties have a problem with this proposal. As they do, it will probably take place in the debate. As rapporteur, I don't want to get too involved. Anyway, I think the problems are obvious, just as the majority in the House that wants the referendum is obvious. One final point. In order for the referendum to be adopted, the Senate must also approve it. And that's what we should be working with at a time when we're looking for that consensual proposal. I would very much welcome the participation of representatives of, say, the constitutional majority in the Senate who also want the law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. I have two applications here with priority rights. First Vice-President Pikal and then Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u8	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for the floor. I just want to say I'm glad the proposal came to the House. However, I think that constitutional laws should be presented as far as possible in a broader agreement than one club. And I really don't consider the proposal well prepared. And at this point, as far as I know, there is no political agreement or any prepared version of how to fix it and get it into a form that would be consensual, or at least could work further. Personally, I don't think it's repairable in this form or in second reading. So I'd like to propose that he be returned to the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u9	Thank you. I am registering the proposal and we will vote on it after the end of the debate. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the House's agenda has finally received a draft law on a general referendum from the pen of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD. In this context, I have often listened to the public debate in the media in recent weeks on the referendum law. This debate is God knows why, perhaps out of ignorance, or perhaps intentionally, flat and one-sided. We all curse ourselves as democrats, but when it comes to breaking bread, I hear from other arguments that democracy is only from here on out and a citizen is supposedly not allowed to vote on international treaties because he could vote on a European Union withdrawal. And not just that. Politicians and the media are trying to create a false impression that the referendum wants the SPD just so that it can call for a vote on the withdrawal from the European Union. Firstly, while we ourselves are not preparing a referendum on leaving the European Union, we want to enable this initiative to citizens. We therefore take for granted that citizens must have this right. Secondly, rejecting democracy simply because people would vote to resign from the Union is a very trivial argument and declassifies Brusel itself. If Brussels politicians and officials so little believe their idea that they force it to us by force without escape, it is primarily a testimony to the success that has been achieved so far, or rather the failure of the European Union. Democracy is not about voting on something or not, but about free discussion and free decision-making about anything. And if I am a supporter of Brussels, I am defending it, not by prohibiting citizens from leaving the Union, but by doing my utmost to prevent people from leaving this group. This is how democracy works, and so should our Euro-Federalists, who are full of the House, start learning it. They are supporters of the political oligarchy government, who are vehemently impersonating democrats here. The famous playwright Friedrich Dürrenmatt wrote in this regard - I quote: "As for everyone, only everyone can solve. " In this logic, the whole political and media scene also considered completely unitedly when the citizens were invited in 2003 to decide in a referendum on the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. In this referendum, there was no quorum for the participation of citizens and only a simple majority of the participants decided. The Treaty with the European Union had, I believe, about 3,000 pages. I don't think he's read it and didn't know anybody in the Czech Republic. Yet the popular vote, i.e. the referendum on this international treaty, did not bother anyone. And not just that. As I said before, there was no limit to the validity of the referendum given by the percentage of the voters involved. Nor did anyone mind that the referendum, as the opponents of the referendum law say today, against the Švýcar people, we are not experienced and we have to get used to it, as pirát, who today do not know how to get out of their promise to voters, that they will support direct democracy, including referendums. But even with that tradition, you're a bit of a mistake. President Masaryk has advocated direct democracy from the beginning for the future Czechoslovakia according to the model of Switzerland. And that's in spite of the fact that until then, we've only had the monarchy here for thousands of years. What, then, would he be advised by today's gangs that oppose the referendum law? Because Masaryk would stand by our side and ask for a direct democracy for citizens and a referendum law with the possibility of voting on anything that does not contradict the Constitution. Thank God he didn't vote that democracy wasn't in our tradition, and we built a republic. Unfortunately, with Masaryk's democracy, he encountered massive opposition from political parties. So the first Republic had a compromise solution. Only the government could raise the referendum. We had another coup. This time in 1989. At that time, the citizens of the so-called Velvet Revolution once again asked politicians to actually represent them and answer to them for their work. The revolution prided itself on being based on dialogue and direct democracy. Citizens wanted the power of institutions to be regularly controlled by popular vote. Elections were to be held at all levels, not only in politics. If a politician betrayed or failed his constituents, he should have been revocable. Even this credo of political parties, politicians and the media have been quietly stunted, even though we know that when the Constitution of the Czech Republic was approved in 1992, the referendum was very seriously considered, and the Constitution therefore clearly states that the people are also making decisions directly. Unfortunately, in almost three decades, mainstream politicians, party oligarchies, godparents, and group members have succeeded in blocking citizens' access to democracy. The government of citizens, with the help of referendums, operates in some form in most countries of Europe and in many states of the US as well as in other countries. Studies - and there are more - show that, where there are more referendums, there is greater satisfaction among citizens and more sympathizers of direct democracy. Let's remember that they're going to pay directly. The more experience with direct democracy, the more sympathy for it. [[16.50 hours]] The fact that one of the politicians, journalists, or political scientists is constantly saying some myths against democracy is due only to his ignorance or to his dislike for real democracy. Here I would remind the Social Democrats this time that they were the ones who advocated universal voting rights in the 19th century and faced exactly the same opposition to democracy and the qualifications of citizens to decide in elections as is the case today. Today, however, social democracy promotes the opposite and wants to vote against the referendum. Like the pirát, please remember their program, so social democracy, please remember your best democratic times, when you did not defend Prague's cafe, but simple workers, laborers and their right to vote. As for our referendum law, which our SPD movement has tabled here, it is necessary to recall the history of its work. We sort of assumed that this law would not be read properly by many opponents and that the main arguments would be pulled from the sleeve. In the last parliamentary term, it was an argument that the law is said to be misspelled, that it is said to be paskvil. This argument was once made on Czech television by the failed minister for ČSSD, Mr Dienstbier, and he embarrassedly took the embarrassment of live coverage because he was weeping on his own grave, because the law that we have put forward and which we are presenting today after moderate adjustments is, in essence, from the pen of government social democracy, it is the version that was created under the supervision of Mr Dienstbier, we have merely cut off the restrictions on what citizens may and must not vote on, because their proposal in practice did not allow them to vote on practically anything important. I have noticed that some of our current parliamentary colleagues have chosen the same path of Dienstbier's argument without arguments. If we are to discuss the law, let us discuss it, but please in a matter of fact, without lying dehonestities. Not only the Social Democrats, but also other true opponents of democracy, please make an argument that we are not mature for democracy and must rule the elites and your party oligarchies. I believe the nobles had the same arguments during the French Revolution or monarchists before 1918 in the Czech lands. I am glad that the citizens of France and also the citizens of the future Czechoslovakia have coughed on the elitist from high to high and formed republics and have shifted history to democracy. Direct democracy does not need a more advanced nation, nor does it need to be replaced. Its principles force citizens to be much more active and to engage in public affairs. Direct democracy also motivates a citizen to have a real influence on its representatives, so that, as a result, citizens are less helpless and frustrated, the state works more effectively and people are more satisfied with its services. Ladies and gentlemen, this country belongs to citizens, and the voices of all citizens are equal not only under the Constitution, but according to human natural law. The Constitution does not know any wise elitist who prefers the right to make decisions for citizens. A citizen has the right to delegate his vote to his representative, but in a democracy, he must have the right at any time to withdraw that right from his representative and decide on his own. And there is no single democratic argument against it, because the moment we withdraw this right from the citizen, then our mandate is enforced, undemocratic and illegitimate. One Dutch political scientist compared the so-called parliamentary democracy with a hit-and-run robbery, when a bunch of robbers give you a choice, which one you specifically give your wallet to. Just as there is a robbery of robberies, it's with a mandate that a voter has to surrender, and he has no choice. And when the wallet robbers get caught, they plead that it was your free choice to give your wallet to. But if you must not keep your voice or wallet freely, it is a mandate, or a step forced, unfree and undemocratic. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever is really serious about the referendum, please release the bill into further reading and in the debate on the right of citizens to decide on their country, let us bear in mind that we are not robbers, but mere representatives of our citizens and voters. Here, let me also respond to the criticisms of those - we have heard it here, for example, from the pirát, but at press conferences we have also heard it from some others, that the law is not in the compromise option, so it is therefore necessary to reject it or to delay it, or to delay it in some way, before everyone agrees. It's not true. This testifies to the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Firstly, I have sought a referendum law for many and many years before entering politics. I have seen it here in the last parliamentary term, when the government of the ANO movement, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD even signed that it would propose, by extension, a law on a national referendum. In the end, it didn't happen at all. And since this is a draft constitutional law - and I would like to say this for those who say that they would like to discuss the law long and look for compromises first, which is certainly necessary, and we are in favour - but since it is a draft constitutional law, there is no time limit for discussing the law in second reading, unlike standard laws, so there is no reason for the law to be rejected at first reading by anyone just because someone doesn't like how it is formulated. That's just an excuse. This is the excuse of those who do not want the referendum law, because - I repeat again - it is a constitutional bill, it is sufficient time and we do not have time in any way limited, we will not be under time pressure now that we show in the first reading that we really want the referendum law, and then in the House we will be looking for compromises without time pressure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the Act, to tune the parameters. That's the right way to go, because the other way around has been here for 20 years and has never led anywhere. So if you let the law go through your first reading, there will be enough time in the House to find mutual compromises. So I ask you to support our proposal and I ask you to vote in favour, because there is no reason in the case of constitutional law to vote against. Now, let me take a closer look at our referendum law. We propose that, in a national referendum, citizens should be able to decide on all matters of internal or foreign policy of the State, on a bill including constitutional law, as well as, for example, on the approval of ratification or the termination of an international treaty. Naturally, our proposal allows us to vote on the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union as well as on the membership of the Czech Republic in NATO. Well, the international treaties are about 200, so we don't say vote about it or that. Let us leave to the citizens' signature initiative what the citizen will consider good, what the citizen of the Czech Republic feels for - we have about 8.5 million voters with electoral rights, adult citizens - so what will be burning. So let's let the citizens decide. They are the owners of this country, not us politicians. Furthermore, we are clear about what these questions should not be directed to. They should not aim to abolish or restrict constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights and freedoms. They should not be directed towards a decision which would be contrary to the obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic. And they shouldn't be aiming to intervene in the execution of justice. At this point I would like to note that several meetings took place where, apart from those of us who submitted this law, that is, behind the SPD, so the representatives of the ANO movement took part, the Pirates participated, the representatives of the KSČM took part in the next stage and, in essence, representatives of other parties, including the ČSSD, took part in the next phase, so we clearly said on behalf of the SPD that we do not insist on these parameters, that we are aware that we have only 22 votes, and that we need 120 votes to pass the law. That means it's not true and there's no point in saying that the law is built somehow, and that's why we're not going to vote for it. As I was clear here, there's no time limit at second reading. We are open to all possible compromises. Even at the joint debate, which I suspect was twice, so we said - there was a suggestion from two political parties that it should not be about the budget, there should not be a vote on taxes, there should not be a vote on levies - we said yes, well, it was from the mouth of the YES movement, they have 78 Members, we have no choice but to respect it, without them it cannot be voted, so we said yes. We have to compromise. We don't have a problem with that. [[17,00 hours]] Furthermore, it was said that the ANO movement rejected a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union or NATO. Well, let's put it into second reading, and the YES movement is still the key force in the Chamber of Deputies, and if they decide, the YES movement, you decide to take it out, we all have to put our heads down and it won't go without it, because otherwise no referendum law will pass. So once again there is no reason to reject it at first reading, we are aware that without the ANO movement it simply cannot be enforced. It is 78 Members, the numbers are quite clear, because parties such as ODS, TOP 09 and Mayors and others basically don't even want the referendum, but they have it on the agenda, so there's no point in blaming them, they have it on the agenda, and voters are elected to do so. So it's not meant to be pejorative. Not everyone wants a direct democracy from the citizens of the Czech Republic. It's okay, I get it. So I just want to say that even as far as these parameters are concerned, or we're not agreed on them, okay, we're open to this discussion. Furthermore, we say that the question for the referendum should be clear, understandable and must be formulated in such a way that it can be expressed by the words 'yes' or 'no'. And in the same referendum, only one question is asked in the same matter. However, more questions can be asked about various things. Well, that is the Swiss model, that why within one, when the referendum is convened, it may answer more questions on different topics and in quotation marks it will be flushed within one voting day. We also say not to read everything here, but only the basic parameters that citizens can call for a referendum on the basis of signatures of at least 100,000 eligible voters no later than two years after the start of signing. It's not dogma again. We're proposing 100,000 signatures, because the Switzerland that, I think, has eight million inhabitants, so it has 50,000 signatures, if I remember correctly, we've increased it a little bit. But there was a discussion about the fact that the YES movement wants 700 thousand signatures, another one wants 500 to 700 thousand. I spoke to Mr. President Zeman last week, and I asked it directly, I didn't even say that information publicly, but I have permission to say it. President Zeman advocates a referendum that would include the possibility of voting in international treaties and promotes 250,000 signatures to call for a referendum. So we see that these opinions are here, and let's talk about it. Okay, if 120 votes are collected only on the condition that it's 500,000 signatures or 700 thousand, well, we just don't like it in the SPD, but we have to agree to it, because it's still better if there's a referendum, some law on a general referendum, and then over time it's gonna have to be amended rather than there's no referendum law. So we're open to debate again. Furthermore, we say that the proposal for a referendum is justified not only by the citizens' initiative, the signatures, but also by the government. We have seen this before in the referendum on the European Union's withdrawal. Then the procedure that we are proposing is that the President of the Republic decides individually on the proposals that were sent to him and in the order in which he ran out. Then, within one month of receiving the proposals, the President of the Republic will propose to the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court assess whether the question is in line with those parameters and whether it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The Constitutional Court will decide whether the referendum proposal is admissible and whether the proposed questions to be tabled in the national referendum are unambiguous and understandable and will decide within a month of the proposal when it was received from the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic then announces a referendum within 14 days of the Constitutional Court's decision becoming enforceable and otherwise would not have declared a referendum. Then we are working very hard here to meet these objections, so that it is not populism, so that people cannot be influenced by any populist proposals or by some momentary information shakiness, so since these conditions for a referendum are fulfilled, we propose that the referendum be held at the earliest six months after the conditions are met and no later than one year after the date of these conditions. This means that it is a six-month time limit for the subject to sit down, to lie in the heads of the citizens, to have a public debate on it, so that everyone can take a non-populist picture and think about the subject. We also propose that, in the case of - this concerns saving funds - that the deadline for holding a referendum should be a referendum in the last six months of the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, the European Parliament, the President of the Republic or the term of office of the representative of the local authorities, so the President of the Republic, in the case of the election of the President of the Senate, would declare a referendum so as to take place together with these elections. It's saving money. Of course, the ideal of the SPD we have in the electoral programme is for the vote to be an electronic election in the Czech Republic. This is, of course, the goal to which we would like to direct the Czech Republic in the future, which means digitization of the state administration, of course, simplification, discounting, transparency of the whole matter. So we've been promoting this for a long time, it's not from the mouth of the SPD or from any news of mine. So electronic and economical government. Yes, that's it. Then, at a time, in order to make an argument about how the opponents of the referendums say that it could be populism and that people do not need to know things, and those opponents make people fools and themselves smart and chosen, so here we say that, at a time beginning 60 days and ending 48 hours before the vote, there will be a referendum on the Czech Radio for at least five hours and at least five hours of broadcast time on Czech television, which will be shared free of charge equally between the petitioners and the opponents of the referendum. This means anyone who wants to get acquainted with the topic, so any citizen of the Czech Republic could look at it and by law this statute, this is what we put into the draft constitutional law, so he will be able to get acquainted with pros and cons. So a six-month period and a discussion on Czech Radio, on Czech Television. Yes, this Article 7, truth, some lawyers accuse us of having nothing to do with the draft constitutional law, but many say and others say that it doesn't matter at all that it is legally okay. Yeah, but it was the same guys who criticized that it could be that people wouldn't have information and how it was going to be, and that's why they're not up for it. So we put it in there, and that's because people don't have information, this is what we're saying, and it's being processed, and legally it's quite right, it's just up to us legislators to decide. Then, of course, the referendum, the decisions taken in the referendum, we clearly say, and that is an important parameter, that they are binding on all and the institutions and persons. We have two types of referendums in Europe. It is referendums, I would say such information, we saw it in Holland, for example, when the Dutch voted on visa-free travel for Ukraine, the Holanďan rejected it, and yet, under pressure from the European Union, the Dutch government had to accept it, laughing in the eyes under pressure from the European Union to the Dutch people, it was just an expensive election survey, according to which politicians did not follow anyway, so this is definitely not how we want it. We want the decisions taken in the referendum to be binding on all institutions and persons. Otherwise, as regards participation, the number of citizens, participation in the referendum. That is also one of the most controversial questions of those who have come to those referendum meetings. There's a lot of bread breaking here, too, because we're proposing a zero-vorum. People ask why. Why a zero-vorum? This means, and the argument against the referendum is that one person will come to the referendum and can decide. So I don't understand the argument at all, because I know and I hope that you all know that any election in the Czech Republic has a zero kvorum. One citizen may elect a senator, one citizen may elect a Member, and one citizen may elect a President if the others do not come. And look at the things Senator Dienstbier has decided about in the government. He divided tens of millions, hundreds of millions of crowns so-called. political nonprofits and other things. And it was based on the fact that in the second round of the Senate elections in Kladno he got, I guess - about 11 percent attendance was there. [[17.10 hours]] So, based on the 11 percent vote in the second round of Senate elections, this participation is usually 10 percent, it is 12 percent, so we accept that mandate. And I'm in. Let's accept him. It's okay. I'm not saying we shouldn't accept him. So it's okay. That is, when citizens elect us politicians to be gay, it suits many politicians, even if there are a few thousand. But it's a six-year mandate for a million crowns a year, and it's perfectly fine. Of course, the Senator's cargo is much higher if I add assistants and offices to that. And all of a sudden, when a citizen has to decide on a particular programming issue - that is, in the election, to explain how we think about it, in elections, the same citizen with the same right to choose from a package of programme points, for example 30 political parties from the program package, and no party disputes whether or not a citizen has read the programme points or whether he has read them. The citizen is simply going to vote and is supposed to be familiar with the electoral programs in some way and to choose according to his best knowledge and conscience, and the choice is valid. So the opponents of the referendum tell you that the citizen is right enough for them to decide on a package of programs like 30 political parties in the House elections, but at the same time they say that citizens are not supposed to be able to decide on one single programming point from those huge package of programs on dozens of sides. So from the logic of the matter, it's easier to decide one program point. I mean, the logic is pretty clear. So deciding one single topic is much easier for a citizen than deciding from dozens of programs to dozens of pages. So there's no reason to approach things from this logic to parameters other than those of the current choices. On the contrary, the question is, do these parameters still have any way... On the contrary, they are more easily taken into account, to enable citizens to choose better and to participate better in public affairs. And that, of course, is where our proposal goes. However, in that debate, which was also attended by some other political parties in Parliament, proposals were made for a quorum. In particular, the proposals were to be between 30 and 35 percent of the participation in the referendum. We suggest zero, but when other parties propose 30 to 35 percent, I say again, we don't like it in the SPD, but we accept it. We just accept it because we only have 22 votes, we need 120, so we're just ready and we're happy to compromise the programming, especially for something to come. So once again, the excuse "we want to reject it, we want a different proposal" is not appropriate. Let's go through the first reading to the second, and as I've repeated several times here, without any time limit, we can have fun in second reading and adjust the parameters to each other. There's no argument that the SPD is making a proposal here. We had to make a proposal. It's part of our program. We haven't worked at the SPD since day one, so when I'm looking at the board here, there's a series of our bills. I'm glad it's so that our work is visible. But I say again, there's no need to deny it. Guys, remember, if we're gonna deny this place, it's that bill of referendum after my experience, after my experience, even after my experience, when I look at history, and it's in the explanatory statement to our law, it's going through here. How many of these attempts have been made and none have gotten through the first reading precisely because of the excuses that we just need to find some compromises. Let's look for them at second reading. Let's go. Let's show people the will, the parties. It was the pirát, it was the Yes movement, it was the KSČM, perhaps even the ČSSD said something that wanted a referendum. So let's show them that we really want him, and let's show that we're capable of politically agreeing that you don't just want to argue here. We want to work at the SPD and let's sit down again. I think we've really done our best for the SPD in that respect. We initiated the meetings, contacted representatives of other parties. I must commend Mrs Válková of the YES movement here. She came to this very hard-workingly. It was a pleasant discussion, but I think we really should make it to the citizens to do something about it. Otherwise, we are proposing here to the law that, if there is a contradiction between the law approved in the referendum and other laws, the law approved in the referendum will be followed. Of course, because we honor the Constitution. Of course, we are the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement and the principle of our movement shows that we think that the country's owner is the people and that it is the highest force. We also say that the law approved in the referendum may be amended or repealed only by the law approved in the referendum. Of course. This is based on what I have been talking about, that when citizens take part in a national general referendum on a question, politicians are built below that citizen from the point of view of the legal force. I think she's perfectly fine. For these international treaties, of course, we are clearly saying that if a referendum is held under this constitutional law to give consent to ratification or termination of an international treaty under Art. 1, so, of course, replaces Parliament's approval in such a referendum. That's the point where we say, of course, it's very important to us. Otherwise, there are accusations. I have heard various criticisms that there is no need to be settled in the law, when a question passes through the referendum, some question, so in another way it will be implemented into the law. But that's the question of the implementing law. That is where we need to discuss the implementing law. We're aware of that. It's not that it's not there, because it's a shortage on our part. This is the constitutional law and the implementing law, that's the next step, so we all agree on it, and we are in favour of the maximum agreement. Let me make a brief argument, respectively. talk about the major myths that are about direct democracy. I would say that by the first myth, I have made notes here that those opponents or those who basically don't want to, or said in the election campaign that they want a referendum, but maybe they don't really want and have full mouth arguments why not, so the argument is: we are not mature for direct democracy in the Czech Republic. Interestingly, they have a referendum law in Slovakia. So I have to reject this argument. Because if the Slovák are mature and we aren't, that's really a pretty stupid argument, and I think we're all mature enough. And I say, if anyone thinks that the Czech citizen is not mature for a direct democracy, then if this is true, then it is high time to introduce democracy here and bring the nation to it. If we live in a party oligarchy, which will monopolize for citizens, we will never raise citizens to account for our own country. President Beneš said: For democracy the nation must be developed and morally strong. Of course it's better that people have moral and ethical values, but if they don't, then we need to have a strong system that can reflect, correct our moral flaws again. If I know that crooks are coming into parliament, then I must be able to control, influence, and not give them a blank check for years of government without any repair options. In a direct democracy, these are no longer the quotes of President Beneš; these are my opinions; our Slavic and Germanic ancestors lived in a direct democracy. Indian tribes live in direct democracy with the Amazon and other tens of thousands of Indians in Mexico. And I think if they can do it, we can do it. The Švýcar have lived in direct democracy for centuries, and the 19th-century Parisian Communists have also introduced direct democracy. And no one wondered whether citizens, members of the family, communities, or tribes were mature. The reasoning was and is guided differently. Are we equal in rights and obligations? And I say yes. And what's essential. If we are not mature - and someone thinks so, I do not think so - then is it better to live, in the opinion of these people, in some dictatorship or imitation of democracy? Why? Does anyone feel that representatives elected by immature voters will be more mature, more responsible or more moral? When someone says the voter isn't mature. Again, I don't think so, because since I've had experience with media edits, they can completely reverse my performances so that I can't be surprised by what I've actually said. [[17.20 hours]] Within 20 years, we have tried the elite government without responsibility. Does anyone have the courage to say that the elite behaved more wisely than the citizens? More morally, more decently, more honestly? On the contrary, many of them trumped even the biggest gangsters. The robbery of state property from the time of privatization seems to be unsurpassed in history. The country has lost not only billions of assets, but it has deprived citizens of all the illusions of its elites. The word politicians became a vulgar word and synonymous with thieves and corrupters. The second argument is that democracy is supposedly just for smart and decent. That's what I hear from opposers of direct democracy. I think that democracy is primarily a system which, unlike some monarchy or ecclesiastical autocracy, does not foresee the infallibility or election of the ruler, and unlike oligarchy or the wisdom of the elite. On the contrary, democracy, the real one, by which I mean, of course, direct democracy, counts on people's weaknesses, counts on the fact that even the strongest personality can fail, or that people choose a kissing jerk. And that's why I bring the fail-safes to the elite in the possibility of calling off these elites and disturbing the elites adopted by the laws. Do you think direct democracy is some kind of developmental stage that some high-tech society has reached? In general, it is the opposite. Direct democracy usually follows as a response to an extremely rude society, when, truth, the more decent will eventually force the right to co-decision. On the contrary, the democratic system raises its citizens, and society matures in it for greater social responsibility. The fact that the Švýcar are generally more socially mature, more engaged and more responsible, as someone says - and especially those opponents of direct democracy say, I do not think so, I think that we are an equally advanced nation - can be due to a strong democratic system. It's incredibly simple, isn't it? If you don't have an influence on what's going on, you're going to resign. But if you have the opportunity to talk and really influence problems, then you usually start to care about them. It also means that citizens in countries with elements of direct democracy are not only more involved but more mature and responsible. They know that individual problems need to be viewed from many levels. They are used to the fact that the referendum is preceded by a social debate that parallel solutions and proposals are emerging. They learn and know that nothing is black and white. By the way, in such cases, it is very difficult to say that they will succumb to some populism. It is the representative system we have in the Czech Republic that forces citizens to trust the elites. And the elite force the masses to fool, corrupt, and cheat to win votes. If a person says democracy is wrong, because most people are fools, there are several ways for a philosopher to defend himself. The most understandable is to strike him sharply and precisely at the tip of his nose. It's a famous quote from an American philosopher. Another argument. I hear there's gonna be a vote on every crap. The third argument I hear a lot - they say there's going to be a vote on every crap. I have looked at the world's experience, and global experience says the opposite. For one thing, you don't vote on every crap. In Switzerland, referendums are held every once in a while and there are also votes on more issues. Of course, referendums have different levels, so the frequency is naturally variable. But that can be considered extreme. Citizens will not ask for a referendum on each of the hundreds of laws that go through Parliament every year. Indeed, the Swiss model is the one who has the farthest direct democracy. However, once a year it is certainly possible to imagine in the Czech Republic that several important topics will be gathered. If we take this concretely, there would certainly be a referendum in the past on religious restitutions or on S-carts. At present, it would probably really be a referendum on our presence in the European Union or on the reception or rejection of migrants. To declare a referendum, the laws in the world presume that at least 1 to 2 percent of voters are interested in voting on the problem. This means that citizens collect enough signatures for a given question that they would like to vote on at their expense. There is no risk that a vote will be imposed on anyone and whenever they wish, or that the public budget will be burdened senselessly. That is why I am going back to what we said, that let's go ahead, even if we disagree, but we have no problem compromise given our number of votes, raise the number of signatures to call for a referendum, and that really solves the argument that maybe we're going to referend here, that's not true, I've already explained that, or that there would still be a referendum. Again, it's a lie, it shows the absolute ignorance of the problem. I admit that this must be a problem, but this is also how our referendum proposal is designed, which will attract enough citizens to even think about it. It is only then possible, on the basis of a sufficient number of citizens' signatures, to declare a referendum on the law or an appeal of politics. Another, fourth myth about referendum and direct democracy is that populist proposals are said to prevail. Once again, when somebody is talking nonsense about populism and about people wanting to cancel taxes, I have heard this argument again, practice from countries where unlimited referendums work shows that it is not at all. It's even the other way around. Everyone is more responsible because everyone in their own way participates in the government more and more deeply discussing problems, is more interested in public life, and all citizens and politicians feel greater responsibility and loyalty to their country, region and community. Example from practice: A few years ago, the Švýcar really had a populist referendum in quotes on whether to enact an extra week's paid vacation. Tell me, who wouldn't answer? kupodivu enough, although many Švýcar were originally for, after a thorough discussion of all pros and cons they rejected the extra leave. And that's exactly the space for the debate we're leaving in our bill. It is the exact opposite of the current situation in the Czech Republic, when people know that they will not change anything, and so they resign from public problems, but they curse at them as much as possible. And we, our SPD movement, just want to involve citizens more in public affairs. We want civil society to be strengthened so that people are more active. That's what's important to us, so we want to do it. Moreover, I know that the classic party oligarchies want to disgust voters so that there is as little voter participation as possible, and because they have a lot of members and people grounded somewhere in the state administration, they know that they will always make it to parliament. But we want the opposite, we want to make it possible for citizens, we want the highest possible electoral participation, we in the SPD want to motivate people as much as possible, we want real democracy. Moreover, there is no stupider argument in so-called democratic policy quotation marks that people are supposed to vote for something stupid. Where are we? In this country, citizens are to rule, and if the majority decides that Brno, for example, will break away from Prague, it is their choice. No one has the right to force their opinion on citizens. Undoubtedly, from time to time, stupid, unrealistic proposals will appear. But believe me, common sense usually wins, so I don't expect such a proposal to tear Brno away from Prague or anything like that. And if common sense happens to be lacking, even parliamentary democracy will not help, see once the victory of the Nazis in Germany. On the contrary, the possibility of calling off politics or in a referendum to revoke the law is a very welcome insurance policy in this light. You want evidence in practice? The citizens of Switzerland have not exercised their democratic rights to transform the state into an inhuman or authoritarian dictatorship led by a populist. There is no death penalty in Switzerland and human rights are not threatened. Moreover, Swiss citizens have no plans to give up their extremely democratic system. Among other things, the disapproval of the Švýcar towards the European Union is directly linked to its undemocratic nature. I am referring to the essence of the European Union. Another argument, the myth of direct democracy and the bill of referendum, is that it will be expensive, that it will be expensive. First of all, I would like to remind you that we are living in the third millennium, and today we would be able to replace electronic paper ballots in practically day-to-day quotation marks. Even in the Baltic countries, far east of us. In practice, this means that you don't go to the polling room behind the screen like today, but instead of a ticket to the urn, you press the button on the voting machine. Thus, both the printing of hundreds of millions of ballots and the manual addition - hundreds of millions, I mean, in the parliamentary term during the constant elections over and over again - is also the loss of the hand census, which is often questioned. Electronic voting is already in place in the case of municipal elections, for example, in the UK, where the vote was possible via the Internet and by telephone, the vote is electronically being voted in Belgium, the USA or Switzerland, at different levels, in different types of voting, and is gradually spreading in all civilised countries. So on the contrary, not that it's gonna be expensive, believe me, we're gonna make money on it. [[17.30 hours]] But what is essential is clear economic evidence. Surveys and statistics show that where there are more elements of direct democracy, the economy and citizens are doing much better there. And I would like to emphasise that. It's exactly the opposite, the argument that it's going to be expensive. It's exactly the opposite! It's exactly the opposite. And I'll be specific. Specifically, e.g. In the United States in 2004, Bloomberg did research on the subject and found that 20 percent more public spending was wasted in US states where referendums did not work. Likewise, economists in Switzerland compared cantons, i.e. self-governing units within Switzerland, and found quite clear statistics that say that where citizens have greater rights in direct democracy, there are better economic results, lower tax evasion, lower debt, lower taxes, lower public spending, but paradoxically cheaper and better public services. It turns out that representatives tend to spend public money and that the initiative and referendum are effective tools to correct this behavior when direct democracy is introduced. So, on the contrary, the introduction of a referendum and direct democracy will not be expensive, the resulting effect is exactly the opposite. In many Swiss cantons, the planned government spending must be confirmed by a referendum. Studies examining the budgetary behaviour of cantons, where these expenditures do not need to be subject to public approval, have shown that public expenditures in cantons with approval obligations are at least 17 percent lower than cantons where no such obligation exists. It has also been shown that those cantons, where access to the referendum is easier, mean lower signature requirements, spend significantly less. So if any of you ask me what I'm good at with a direct democracy, if it doesn't make bread cheaper, then the answer is simple. Of course it will. For there is a fundamental difference between whether a country or a region or a municipality is run by, I would say, incompetent people, or even crooks without responsibility, or the people over whom the sword of Damoklův hangs a referendum or immediate appeal. The truth is that where they vote on laws and can even overvote or revoke Members, they have surplus budgets, and the world, wonders, is less spending on public spending, but public services are better than in states where budgets and spending are decided by politicians without responsibility to voters. So it's not only stupid to say that direct democracy is expensive and we can't afford it. No. The current pseudo-democracy is expensive, and we can no longer afford it. It's exactly the opposite. Or do you think that citizens would allow a republic to be stolen like politicians in the past? That they would allow wealthy state firms to privatise for symbolic change and, on the contrary, allow the state to pay for the damage and debts of thieves and impostors? That they would allow the prosecution of hundreds of crooks like we experienced in the amnesty? Even the biggest schnitzel can't claim that citizens are stupid enough to admit that. But whoever admitted this was Czech and Moravian politicians. Another complaint against the referendum and against direct democracy is that a proportional system is also democratic, as the electorate freely elects his representative. Well, it's a big lie, though it seems logical on the outside. How is it really? In a real democracy, the president, government and parliament have a mandate from all the people. That's what our Constitution says. However, this assumes that this mandate is given voluntarily by the people. Otherwise, it wouldn't be a democracy. If this mandate is voluntary, then it is not possible to direct citizens to surrender it, but they must be able to retain it and execute it themselves, i.e. to rule on your own. I mean, it's the law, the government, or the president. I have already said this in the introductory part of my speech that simply enforced mandate is not a mandate. And as I was saying, I drew attention to the authors of the Dutch book on direct democracy, who compare representative democracy to robbery, and I will not repeat that analogy here again. Supporters of the purely representative system claim that citizens have voluntarily given their mandate to their representatives and therefore have the right to make decisions. However, they ignore the fact that this kind of mandate creates an internal contradiction. Legitimate mandate is a legitimate gift. It can only be donated voluntarily. And volunteering means that a citizen must have the opportunity not to give a mandate, but to choose the right to make a direct decision through a referendum. The mandate enforced is a false stolen mandate. Another argument against the referendum is, and so I have heard, and so I have been very frightened when the citizens who are applying for the referendum law have been told: So start your own political parties. Well, that's a really remarkable argument. The advocates of a purely representative system say that everyone has the opportunity to set up their own political party and apply for a post in Parliament alone. Well, certainly, that possibility is, but this argument ignores the principle of the sovereignty of the people. This depends on the possibility of determining how decisions are taken. It is clear that most people would like to comment on many issues, but only a few people are aspiring to the seats of Members of Parliament. In a democracy, this desire must be respected. Anyone who says against the wishes of the majority that direct decision-making is not allowed and that if you want to make a change, you must gain a seat in parliament, puts himself in a position of supremacy and violates the sovereignty of the people. If people want to express themselves on specific issues and are not allowed to do so, it is clear that the people do not carry much in their hands. It is a quote from the Dutch book Direct Democracy, Direct Democracy, published in Brussels in 2007, by Jos Verhulst and Arjen Nijeboer. Another argument against direct democracy is, those opponents who say the argument, that the proportional representative system is simply traditional in our country. Tradition? Well, the tradition was to interrogate the accused in torture or God's judgment. The argument that something is traditional that we are used to is the stupidest thing in the case of opponents of direct democracy. Only one who doesn't have one has an argument like that anymore. On the contrary, Masaryk wanted to reach a direct democracy of the Swiss type, and the first interim Czechoslovak Constitution contained a popular vote, but the fact is that the massive opposition of political parties ruined this idea. A representative democracy is such a form of semi-democracy. It is a concession of powerful pressures from the bottom, but a concession that preserves power as a privilege. Those with money can buy elections. Those with big money buy entire political parties. Another argument is that lobbyists will win if there is a referendum law. It's the argument of opponents of direct democracy. In the last 30 years - that is what I would like to respond to. In the last 30 years, a powerful financial lobby e.g. In the US, quietly and without discussion, it gradually broke rules regulating financial markets and the private financial sector. The banking lobby not only managed politicians, it even put its representatives in executives and bankers became ministers. The deformity of financial laws, the growing anarchy and the absence of control and regulatory mechanisms in a way drugged, drugged in quotation marks, financialists who, as ecstasy, turned the spiral of loans into loans, a huge fraudulent aircraft, which then resulted in the global economic crisis. We all remember the time here. And once again, we are on the fundamental question. Would citizens agree to abolish regulation and control of the financial sector? We say never. Citizens, truth is, they are not experts in everything, but in principle, they win, and they are common sense. Moreover, the effects of the crisis, those on their shoulders have simple citizens. Tens of thousands of Američan were homeless back then, out of work, out of money. Wall Street and Washington DC boys didn't lose their jets. In the Czech Republic, no one discusses programmatic and system laws with the public or with experts in recent years. And the opposition is rolling around without any discussion, let alone compromise. Honor to exceptions. But they don't do spring. [[17.40 hours]] I have to say, I'm just gonna remind you of something from the past. Typical were e.g. social reforms from the pen of Mr Drábek's then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, e.g. With cards that didn't even have support in the government coalition. It is true that democracy, or even direct democracy, is not self-savability, and the creation of a good society is much more, a value system, morality, ethics. Direct democracy is not even a goal. It's a social system. It's rules, and it's just a way to make a better life for a human community. And that's our target in the SPD, that's our target. The most important thing in the community that we want to improve in order for people in our Republic to live as best as possible are people. But you can't wait here for another to be born, or, as the opponents of referendums and direct democracy say, some better generation or some better people. Just people are who they are, and they are citizens of the Czech Republic. And I will certainly not judge whether people are like that or not, as other political parties do here in connection with the referendum proposal. And I think, on this question, that we and our children should be better, more responsible and more decent, that is what we need to do right now and every moment of our lives. Finally, let me say why I think these changes are what we are proposing, i.e. changes to direct democracy, necessary. The vast majority of critics of direct democracy also argue with custom. In our country there is such a system of poppy, it has a tradition with us, we should not change because we are not used to other systems in our country. Well, all you have to do is think a little bit. And as I have already explained in my speech, this argument is more of a desperate cry after maintaining the existing system without any material logic. After all, when we look into our history, we lived in a family community for millennia, then in a feudal, then in an early capitalist monarchy. After all, each of these systems survived once and made room for another, more modern one. What is crucial for development is the deepening of democracy. Perhaps no one would insist today on re-establishing slavery simply because it was a traditional and longest-lasting institute for most civilizations. History simply progresses so that one day slavery has vanished, then rich men have earned the right to vote, and then poor white men, then colored men, and eventually women have the right to vote. I quote that - to avoid being accused of racism - from a book that spoke of America at that time. At every moment, when there was a struggle to deepen democracy, there were objections. And they were always based on tradition. Yes, they used to be a tradition of ritual human sacrifice. But we don't think it makes sense to maintain such a tradition anymore. It was only in the 19th century that a general vote began to be promoted. The universal system of one voice appeared for the first time in the United States of America, but by the middle of the 19th century, only white men who had property had that right in most US states. Women and so-called the colored population was not considered justified to vote. In 1870 after the civil war, they obtained the constitutional right to vote as well as the so-called. colored. American women of blue, green or any colour had to wait until 1920. So it was a development, as democracy gradually evolved. And women have even been introduced to vote in the US on the basis of referendums in some states. Which could cause today's women to think about the benefits of direct democracy. In the UK, the workers were rebelling and fought hard for the right to vote for decades until the end of the 19th century. Suffragettes demonstrated bravely between 1904 and 1918 until they received the voting rights of women over 30 years of age and all men over 21 years of age. And the fight continued for the right to vote for women over 21 years of age for the ridiculous designation of "chicken elections." Democracy, as we can see, is never complete. Democracy must be seen as an organic process that develops. Democracy cannot stop its development and deepening, just as one cannot stop breathing. The democratic system, which remains static and unchanged, will fall and become undemocratic. The current unrest in society is due to this inflexible process, which we currently have in the Czech Republic. We are witnessing that democracy in our society is distorted. And I think that is why it is time to take that step further, to the next step, to a greater democracy that would suit the citizens of the Czech Republic. The current oligarchic party system has flaws that seem to be caused by individual misconduct. But the problem is not in individuals, but in a system that inevitably forces individuals and parties to behave the way they behave. The system forces them to pursue partial party goals at the expense of general interests, because otherwise they would be in danger of losing their constituents' trust and breaking their pre-election promises. At the same time, indirect democracy also makes it difficult for politicians to pursue long-term goals, because political parties are constantly being decided in elections. Oligarchy has a natural and constant tendency to expand at the expense of democracy and seeks to favour its party and short-term interests at the expense of public and long-term good goals. What does that mean? This logically implies that our state should strengthen the elements of democracy in the third millennium. Yes, a direct democracy needs to be strengthened. Thank you for your attention and please support the referendum law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u11	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Let's keep going. And before we do any more speeches - there are two factual remarks and three priority rights - I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. For working reasons, he apologizes for today's meeting after 16.50 Mikuláš Peksa, from 5 pm Mr Nacher, from 17.30 pm Mrs Věra Adámková, from 16.30 pm Ondřej Benešík and from 16.30 pm also Mrs Helena Válková. I now invite Mr Jan Birke to make a point of fact, and Mr Ferjenčík will also be prepared for a point of fact. Then, with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Fiala. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I do not know whether to respond directly to the previous speaker, Mr Vice-President, through you, Tomio Okamura. Maybe in one sentence. As I listened carefully to him, we are all lucky that Mr. Tomio Okamura is passing by because I feel like we're doing nothing at all. On the other hand, I must say - because not only the Vice-President of Okamura'social democracy' has been heard several times, but I also suspect the rapporteur of the press, social democracy - so I would like to say that roughly 20 minutes ago, the constitutional law on the national referendum under House press number 393 was loaded into the system from the social democracy pen. And that's the document that comes from the social democracy pen. I don't know what my previous speaker was talking about, and, of course, I'm not going to comment on it. This is a document that will be the subject of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u13	Thank you, Mr Birke, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u14	Thank you for the floor. Just a factual comment on one particular statement by my colleague Okamura. He claimed that the government had declared a referendum on the European Union. This is a typical example of, say, creative handling of the facts that Mr Okamura unfortunately discredits direct democracy in our country. The referendum may have been proposed by the government, but it was approved by both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate by a constitutional majority. And, of course, we wouldn't have a problem with this general referendum law allowing this way of putting a referendum on the instigation of the government. However, so that the referendum itself can be announced by the government, including the government without confidence, in addition to the fact that the Prime Minister is now appointed directly by the President without trust. [[17.50 hours]] So the law, as the SPD presented it, allows for a change in the political system in the Czech Republic from parliamentary democracy to the presidential system through referendums. And I would certainly like to turn against what was being introduced by the Act on the General referendum, second point, I regret that because of this proposal, the whole debate on direct democracy, which we are promoting and using ourselves, is flattening itself on the debate on czexity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And we'll continue with the priority act. Vice-President Petr Fiala. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly respond to some of the things mentioned by Vice-President Okamura. It would be a lot to disprove, explain, correct, state what the facts are, in contrast to the rest of the truth, the half-truth and the torn interpretations. But I don't think there's any point. I am going to limit myself to just a few basic things and to refute some of the fundamental points that Vice-President Okamura has presented to us here. We have heard from him that the debate on direct democracy should be factual and defensive. Well, that's the kind of debate I'd like to have, although I'm not a follower of spreading direct democracy in the Czech Republic. I am not a follower of this for a number of professional factual reasons, and it is precisely because of the knowledge of political systems, whose examples you have misinterpreted here. But you didn't offer any substantive arguments here. And through the President, Mr Vice-President, there have been a number of dehonestations. You also said that you, your movement, honor the Constitution. Well, I don't know if you honor the Constitution when I listened to what you said. Because you're talking about some party oligarchy, a self-appointed elite that prevents the people from expressing themselves, etc. etc. But in our Constitution, which you therefore honor, it is said that the people are the source of all state power and exercise it through the authorities of legislative, executive and judicial power. That's our Constitution you honor. And that's what it says. And that's what democracy looks like. I've been wondering all along what's the key to your concept and the mess you've offered us here, from Dürrenmatt to Masaryk, the francouzský revoluce to those Swiss examples. And you said it at the end. You don't actually stand up for some hegelian concept of history. This is the concept of Marxist history, which leads you to the idea that, from some worse forms of social arrangement, the development of the iron law is constantly directed towards better forms. But it's just not like that. And that brings me to the most important part. It is simply demagogy, a lie - and a dangerous lie - to tell someone that direct democracy is a higher, better form of democracy. It's just not like that! And it's not even a newer form that we all have to reach. On the contrary, when we look at history, we find elements of direct democracy developed much earlier than representative democracy developed. And if anyone here is telling us that the only democracy is the one that is based purely on a direct democracy, that we all have yet to come to that conclusion, that we are the ones who prevent the people from making decisions, it is indeed many times in history a convicted lie, demagogy and untruth. And I'm just surprised that there aren't 150 Members in a row here and they don't want to disprove these lies because they're attacks on us, and they're attacks on the people that we answer to, who elected us and who we represent here. When I mentioned the party oligarchy that President Okamura spoke of so often, he may speak from the experience of his own movement. But, normally, it is in democracy that citizens volunteer to join political parties, those political parties have internal democracy, and on this basis, people are chosen to be candidates. And it is, say, another strengthening of the overall democratic process that we know in Western democracies. And intra-party democracy is of great value. It's not something we're supposed to wave our hands at and despise and swear that there's some party oligarchy in this place. He doesn't. It's nonsense. And if you don't have an intra-party democracy in your movement, then make it if you want to do something for the quality of democracy and political culture in the Czech Republic. The rest of us have her. Nor is it true that anyone who does not want to introduce elements of direct democracy is not a good democrat. It's nonsense. And the examples that President Okamura has given here are also pointless. I don't think I'm gonna discuss the individual examples, even though I could, but I'm gonna do two. We have heard here that, in a direct democracy and through a direct democracy, some progressive measures such as women's electoral rights are being introduced, and some such things have been mentioned here by President Okamura. So let's see how it really is. Where were women's voting rights introduced very lately? Wasn't it in some Swiss cantons, and wasn't it where direct democracy works in the long run? So if I want to make some arguments here, I have to put them in context and all of them. And not as nonsense as we've heard here. And the second thing I have also heard here on the basis of a study that Mr Okamura has quoted here, that in countries where there is direct democracy, there is a better economy, a higher standard of living, the state behaves more economically, and, on the contrary, where these elements are not, so it robs, people have a worse time, etc., I do not want to misinterpret what Mr Okamura has said here. All right, well, if that's the case, explain to me - yes, Switzerland is doing well economically, they have a direct democracy there, etc. - why is the neighbouring state of Bavaria one of the most developed countries in the world, which works amazingly on all sides, and yet there are no elements of direct democracy, do there have anything like what you are talking about, there has been a political party there for years, there is representative democracy? How is it that they are also economically good, are innovative, are economical, and are among the most developed countries in the world? Well, it's because the argument that was made here is meaningless, it doesn't apply, and it's not based on any facts. And the last point, and I consider that very important. The quality of democracy. The quality of democracy does not depend on whether the democratic system is shaped primarily on the basis of representative democracy or contains stronger elements of direct democracy. The quality of democracy depends on the extent to which people in a country are themselves convinced democrats, to what extent they believe that democratic procedures, whether representative or directly democratic, are to be followed, applied and respected. No laws, no new mechanisms have ever increased and increased the quality of democracy. And that, in the end, is also the essence of what Masaryk told us about democracy and what I think was here - I do not want to use the word abused, but at least interpreted in the wrong way. For Masaryk, democracy is not a mechanism. And Masaryk would never be satisfied with saying that instead of representative democracy, you won't find that with him. For Masaryk, democracy was a moral attitude, a world view, an internal arrangement. It was a question of morality. That's why Masaryk cared about ideals, all these things. It's not like we're gonna put in place another new democracy institute and everything's gonna get better. Masaryk could never say such nonsense and it is a mistake when Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk is here just in the year when we commemorate the centenary, in this way misinterpreted. [[18.00 hours]] And then let me make one more comment, the political scientist's comment. Indeed, it is impossible and impossible to argue with Switzerland. We've known for a long time. Switzerland represents, for various historical reasons, a special type of political system. A political system other than presidential, semi-president and parliamentary democracy, based on a direct democracy. But it is a political system unique, exceptional, given not the quality of people, specific historical conditions, and notice that even in countries neighbouring Switzerland, such as Austria, Germany, etc., this system is not reproduced and repeated, because it is simply not possible. So to argue constantly with Switzerland, the argument is wrong and wrong. In most countries of the world, in all others, democracy has simply evolved differently and otherwise it is developing. Nor will the Švýcar tell you, and you can read their work and their political texts on Swiss democracy, that their democracy is better than that of German, Austrian, French, American, British. They won't tell you because they can't say anything like that. That's not true. It's just another way of organizing society, another way of making people's decisions, but there's no way to say it's a better way of doing it. But the problems they have with democracy and direct democracy in Switzerland are the problems that direct democracy sometimes brings, and that is the longness of some decisions, some conservativeness, even where speed and innovation are needed, not the transparency of some debates. These are all things you can read in the literature of Swiss authors about Swiss direct democracy. And then, of course, there is the big problem of direct democracy at all levels and in all countries, and that is unclear, sometimes unclear responsibility for political decisions taken. That is precisely why democratic procedures are well suited in deciding on specific things in small communities, as we have in the Czech Republic, clear figures, because there is a good way to reach the responsible decision and reach it at some reasonable time. Introducing a direct democracy at national level in the Czech Republic will bring nothing positive. But please, I am ready to have this debate, I am ready to have this debate seriously, I am prepared to make arguments that will show why this bill and other laws on a general referendum are dangerous or why they will not improve the quality of our democracy. But that's a different debate than the one the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura, brought us into. This mixture of demagogy and this mixture of misinterpretations must be responded to, but there is no substantive debate based on it. So please all those who want to have a substantive debate here about direct democracy and the introduction of its elements, to use arguments that are relevant, which historically stand up, which are based on some insights, and not on impressions, insults by those who are convinced supporters of democracy, but representative, insults by those who are trying to make political parties perform the function they have in democracy, and ultimately the insults of our people. Because our people in the Czech Republic are the source of all government power and rule here, but it rules here through the authorities of legislative, executive and judicial power. And that's what every Democrat is supposed to respect, and that's what they're supposed to do and not say that this isn't a democracy, this isn't a constitutional thing, this is something bad, we're going to do something good here. Ladies and gentlemen, from the SPD, you're not gonna do any good! We have seen many times what direct democracy has been used for, even in the past. I say again, let's talk about introducing elements of direct democracy, but don't spill dirt on our heads because we're not supporters of direct democracy. We're no worse Democrats than you. We only have better arguments, and that is why we are in favour of representative democracy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u17	I thank Vice-President Petr Fial. I have two factual points here - Pavel Kováčik and Mr Radim Fiala. First Pavel Kováčik. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madames and gentlemen, democracy is a debate. It's Masarykův. Here too, the name has already appeared today in connection with direct democracy, directly with the Atp referendum. I am just reminding you that the discussion needs to be conducted, it needs to be conducted with culture, it needs to be conducted calmly, it also needs to be conducted at a certain level of expertise, not just at the level of perception and sensitivity. And what we're listening to here sounds more like a seminar to me. And it requires a seminar. Despite the fact that communist MEPs have been coming up with a proposal for a general referendum for a number of years, we also now have this proposal. After all, it should be adopted in some version. We think that it is not a disgrace to parliamentary democracy when certain issues that we are able to agree on mostly can be decided directly by citizens. And I'd like to ask two more things. As President Fiala is called upon here, let the supporters of direct democracy not offend the supporters of representative democracy, I would like to ask that neither the supporters of that direct democracy, the share of that direct democracy, be demoted. I completely agree with its assessment of the use of the arguments on Switzerland. The second point is that, through the President, I would like to ask President Fiala not to compare what was said here in Mr Okamura's speech with Marxism. Mr. Politologist, please learn a little more about Marxism so that you can judge Marxism more qualifiedly. [[Laughing and disapproval in the hall]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u19	Thank you for keeping time. I have here another factual point by Mr Radim Fiala, then a factual point by Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u20	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to ask President Fiala through you, Mr President, not to banish the people and the Members who are on the mountain for direct democracy. Because I understand that he is a supporter of representative democracy. We are representatives of direct democracy. We all promote, we all think, and we have arguments that our methods or our democracy are better, that it can make life much better for people in the Czech Republic. Just allow me to quote a very short sentence when Chairman Fiala turned to Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, so allow me to quote. For example, in the book World Revolution during War II and in War 1914-1918, Prague 2005, we read, among other things, on page 359: "Democratic constitutions introduce a referendum by which general democracy sometimes, at least in legislation, comes into force quantitatively. " We in the SPD are supporters of a direct democracy that comes from Switzerland. My colleague, Chairman of the Fiala, is a supporter of representative democracy, which comes from the Austro-Hungarian power. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Now the factual remark of President Stanjura, then the factual comment of Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u22	I don't know what to do. [[Fun.]] There were two factual points, and both of them raised me up. For President Kováčik through the President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip. We will learn neither Marxism nor Communism nor Leninism. We who lived there in that system know very well what it was about. And it's really embarrassing to remember 70 years ago from the Communist coup that you come here and smile at us and say, Comrades, study Marxism better there! It wasn't really bad! - Well, that was wrong! And I have quoted here several times the law, the law in force in our Republic on the unlawfulness of the Communist regime. Then read it and act like it! And the Communists know very well what the law says. The system was reprehensible. Unfortunately, state leaders - the President, the President of the House, the President of the Senate, the Prime Minister in resignation, not one of them came forward for the anniversary! [[18.10 hours]] I understand that, the YES movement that applies for communist voices. But there are limits to pragmatism. Or do you want them at all costs? Even at the cost of supporting the communists? Yes, you do. But we're not gonna be trained here for not knowing Marxism well. Unfortunately, we do. And above all, our parents and grandparents, who are not lucky enough to live our productive life in a free society, know it. And a quote from Masaryk and my former colleague Radim Fiala. Well, I understand that someone will contribute and that a longtime ODS member is claiming a direct democracy today. Why not? I respect that, but I find it funny.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Then Mr Pavel Kováčik. Also a factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u24	Thank you for the floor. I listened very carefully both to the speech of Vice-President Okamura and to the speech of Vice-President Fiala. I must say that the speech, or, more specifically, the performance at the meeting, should probably be described in genre terms what Vice-President Okamura was doing here, at one point it seemed to me as a mixture of completely disparate excerpts that I don't know who wrote to him, because without yearning to have any debate that he was calling on here, a dialogue that he honored, something that would move us forward, so as soon as he spoke out and heard from the first person who wanted to oppose him, he left the courtroom and was unable to listen to a response to what he said. Instead, Vice-President Fiala, who is talking about some kind of dehonestation, has not had to mention his chairman here, who has set up a completely abnormal level of debate, while President Fiala's contribution has led us to think about something. I don't think that... I don't expect all of us to agree with what Vice-President Fiala has said here. While I would have signed it for sure and 100%. But he's set up a sophisticated professional debate, and now I'm here to listen to whether or not he's demoting someone. Excuse me. All I would say is that after Mr. Okamura's performance and after Mr. Kováčik's speech, I will add one last thing: I wish Mr. Andrea Babiš this from the bottom of my heart!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Now the factual comment by Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact. And then, with priority rights, Mr. Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, democracy and debate are also about listening to each other. If you have noticed, colleagues and colleagues, I rather criticized Mr Okamura's claim. He also criticized the comparison with Marxism. Not that I applauded him in any way. I have even identified myself with President Fiala's view that we are simply every other environment, that we cannot move one type of democracy from one country to another. So it's just about listening to each other. And as for this, once again please, let's have a seminar where we can actually discuss these things with the participation of constitutional lawyers and other capacities and authorities so we don't have to reach out here about the past and the past. After all, after 1989, we already have a very interesting past, but I wouldn't like to remind you of that here. We are talking about a referendum as an element of direct democracy, I recall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u27	Thank you, President Kováčik, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Stanjura's point of fact. Yes, that's right. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u28	It's a point of fact, I'm going to try to be really factual. In the speech of Vice-President Okamura, a comparison was made with Slovakia. Yes, they have a national referendum law in Slovakia. I think it's been done eight times. How many times has it been valid? That's not what Mr Okamura was talking about. Once! When the Slovak Republic was voted on its accession to the EU. All other referendums were void. So when we use cases and say, "Let's look at the neighbors as well as they have it," they have it perfectly, but no referendum except for a referendum that was similar to the one that happened in the Czech Republic was valid. That should be mentioned by those who argue: if our neighbors have it, why shouldn't we have it? Do we need a referendum that will never be valid? Do we really need him? We have to learn. Come on, let's get him drunk. Let's give him a hug. And we'll know it'll never actually work. That is why - therefore also - there is no quorum in the proposal to make... so that the referendum is valid. Then it's a dictation of a minority. That's not what we're talking about. And the concession in Slovakia isn't very high. It's not an extreme number. But so many people never came to the referendum - and now I don't want to judge whether the campaigns were good or bad. I don't live there. But simply the Slovak voter, the Slovak citizen, did not come to the referendum in enough quantity to make the result valid, whether for or against. So if we want to make factual arguments from other states, then show us how many referendums were there, whether they were valid at all or not. Otherwise, there's no point. Or maybe it's just a pseudoargument. I have the exact numbers, if you're interested. I can give you the Slovak referendums here. When it was, how many citizens it caused, how many citizens participated and whether they were in favour or against. Yes, the minority, the organized minority, was mostly in favour. But the problem didn't really interest most of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, the rapporteur, Michal Ferjenčík. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u30	I would like, through the President, to respond to my colleague Stanjura. About what he just said. Indeed, a number of referendums were invalid in Slovakia. But the reason wasn't that people weren't interested in the topics that were voted on, but in the poor design of the kvor, which we stressed several times in the negotiations about what the law should look like. And so I'm going to mention it here. It is vital that thevorum be constructed from those voices for the possibility. [[with an emphasis on "for']] This means, for example, that at least 25 percent of the eligible voters, all of them, must vote, for example. There must be more for the referendum proposal and, of course, there must be more than those voting against it. And then the structure of the kvora makes sense, and it leads to all those interested in the referendum taking part in it. If thevorum is designed so that there is a need for participation, and in Slovakia very high, there is a 50 per cent sense, so it is easier to convince people not to go there than to come and vote against it in sufficient numbers, and the voter doesn't even have a choice when he wants to reject the proposal whether he should stay at home or whether he should go there, then logically it is that people do not go there and the referendums are not valid. But it's a problem of how it's designed in the law. Not that people are not interested in politics and would not want to comment on the question. So I very much appeal to this House not to accept this principle and to inspire, for example, in San Marino or in other countries that have been designed there, according to the participation for one question. [[with an emphasis on "for']] So let thevorum be constructed by voting for the proposal. After all, we have one very negative example from the Czech Republic, where the referendum in Pilsen on the ban of a trading centre was valid only because of the votes of the people who opposed it. It's a completely bizarre situation when people who -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u31	Mr rapporteur, you have made a point of fact. Please follow the rules of procedure. Thank you. Mr Birke's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u32	Thank you, Mr President. You know, it kind of feels like folk creativity to me. It's like we're running ahead of ourselves here. What was before. Whether he's a chicken or an egg. I'm supposed to... We don't even have to go to Slovakia. Look how much... And I am certainly a proponent of direct democracy, no doubt. As mayor, I can't afford it any other way. On the other hand, I must say that let us see how many referendums there are at municipal level. I don't know, did anybody do the math? So what are the results of the referendums in the municipal elections? Or virtually. about the local, let's say, topics. If the referendums are even valid. First of all. And two. In my opinion - I think this debate is definitely good, great, wonderful, it's flowery. But it's not going anywhere. Let's make a deal that I think we all have voting programs here, that we want a referendum, so... [[A reminder from the diaper.]] Except the ODS, of course. Of course, I can't afford to say anything like that to Mr. Adamec, by your means. I'm sorry, colleague. But that's how we all have it, except for the ODS. So let's do this seminar, and maybe there we can talk to the constitutional lawyers about how we should proceed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u33	Thank you, colleague Birke, for keeping time on a point of fact. One more point in fact, Prime Minister Stanjura's point. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u34	This morning we were about 16 or 17 Members at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where I received information that immediately after the item was announced, it would be interrupted. That there's a match and that he'll be interrupted before the seminar is over. We've been discussing this for about two hours. Sounds to me like it's pretty long right away. In order to keep to what I have been informed, I suggest that we interrupt this item until the end of the seminar which it organises - now I don't know who, help me - the Chamber of Deputies Commission for the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u35	Thank you for the suggestion. This is a procedural proposal which is voted without debate. It is based on Article 63 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 point 1a of the Rules of Procedure Act, which requires us to decide whether to adjourn the matter, i.e. at the end of the hearing, by adjourning it, and to determine either the time or an event. This event refers to President Stanjura's end of the seminar on the topic of the general referendum, which is a voteable proposal. Even President Kováčik with priority rights. We are out of the debate now because we are voting without a debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u36	I have an alternative proposal or an amendment to this procedural proposal. Can I have that? Because there is a danger that the seminar will take place and it will have to run to this point immediately after the seminar. I would like to make an alternative proposal: until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u37	Okay. President Stanjura will specify his proposal. I was going to. I have a comment on how to do this, but President Stanjura said it earlier. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u38	In order to comply and avoid the concern of Pavel Kováčik that the seminar will end at 16 o'clock and the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 16 o'clock, I suggest that we interrupt the item and place it at the first proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will be convened after the seminar is closed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-004-010.u39	Okay. That needs to be clarified, which is fine. Therefore, according to Section 63 (2) (a) of the EEA Agreement, the Commission concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 point 1a is a proposal to adjourn this item until the first meeting, which will be after the seminar on the principles of the general referendum. If I may specify my colleague Stanjura's proposal. Everyone knows what we're going to vote on. I'll check you out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide this proposal in voting number nine, which I will begin when the number of Members applied for is settled. It's not yet... Okay. We can vote. It's the number 9 vote I started. I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 9. Of the 136 present, for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. That's why I'm interrupting item 10. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] I thank the representatives of the appellants, thank the rapporteur. We'll continue with point number
