ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u1	26. Government bill amending Act No. 154/2000 Coll., on breeding, breeding and registration of farm animals and amending certain related laws (the breeding law), as amended /German press 169/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u2	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the Government's bill amending Act No. 154/2000 Coll., on breeding, breeding and registration of livestock and amending certain related laws, the so-called breeding law, as amended. The submitted material ensures, in particular, the adaptation of the breeding law, which has been in operation for almost 20 years without major changes to the provisions laid down in the ECSC Regulation on breeding animals. The aim of the Government's draft amendment to the Act is to ensure the conditions for the breeding and breeding of livestock in the Czech Republic following the entry into force of the said Regulation of the European Union, which takes place on 1 January 2005. 11. 2018. The draft amendment to the Act divides the listed livestock into the main species, i.e. animal species listed by the regulation and other listed livestock, animal species not covered by this Regulation. Following a regulation of the European Union, provisions relating to recognised breeding associations and pig holdings have been recast. Although the evaluation and recognition of breeding books will continue to be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, the regulation allows for appeals against Member States' decisions to the European Union. Due to the introduction of a new zootechnical certificate by a regulation of the European Union, the issue of putting breeding animals into circulation has also been adapted. [[Big noise and very poor hearing in the hall.]] The draft amendment of the Act has been discussed continuously with the concerned bodies for which the adaptation of the European Union regulation is acceptable and taking into account the current breeding practice in the field of breeding and breeding of livestock. Having regard to the above and already mentioned fact that the Regulation on breeding animals takes effect on 1. 11. 2018, at the same time, I would like to ask you for the possibility of a short hearing in the committees for 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u3	Thank you. Then I will ask you, Minister, to make a proposal to shorten the deadline in the general debate so that we can follow the right formal procedure. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr David Pražák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u4	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In order to ensure the compatibility of our legislation, an extensive set of European Community rules governing this issue is incorporated into the valid version of the breeding act. The applicable breeding law has been amended several times since its entry into force to date, in particular because of the necessary implementation of the relevant regulations and directives of the European Union, the necessary compliance with the amendments to certain laws and, in particular, due to new knowledge from practice. Each legislation in this field has always been consulted with representatives of breeding associations, with experts on registration, breeding and breeding, as well as with representatives of the research sphere. Thanks to this, the breeding of livestock in the Czech Republic has reached the level of traditional advanced breeding countries, not only of the Member States of the European Union. [[15.40 hours]] The consistent implementation of approved programmes, in particular in the field of performance checks, inheritance checks, appropriately applied selection pressure based on the calculation of breeding values, resulted in a significant shift in the number of high-quality breeding animals with high breeding value as well as an increase in performance. On this basis, breeding animals have become competitive in market sales in the Member States of the European Union, as well as in third countries. Similarly to the applicable breeding law in the field of animal labelling and registration, credibility is guaranteed for the administration of support for European funds. At the same time, this system enables regular recording of movements of animals in the central register to obtain an up-to-date overview to prevent the transmission of diseases, especially diseases communicable from animals to humans, thus protecting food safety not only in the Czech Republic. From this place I would like to highlight the work of the Czech Moravian Society of Breeders and its Central Register of Farm Animals for Czech Farmers. The current breeding law clearly and effectively regulates the conditions for guaranteeing the Ministry of Agriculture for the conservation of biodiversity in agriculture in selected breeds and species of animals. At the same time, the Czech Republic meets the requirements arising from the international requirements to which the Czech Republic has applied in the framework of the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and membership of the United Nations, in particular in the Commission on Genetic Resources, Food and Agriculture. Thanks to the application of all these regulations, we can say that almost all of its provisions complied with the current text before the adoption of the regulation. From this point of view, the proposed legislation will not adversely affect the current breeding and breeding work of recognised breeding associations in the Czech Republic. That is why I would like to conclude, as the Minister said, by proposing a discussion within a shorter period of 30 days to 30 days in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u5	Thank you and I am now opening a general debate. Yes, Madam Secretary reporting. [[He doesn't want to get out.]] Oh, you were showing someone else. So, Minister, you had a motion to shorten the deadline. So, if you can present it in the general debate. Please, so Mr. David Pražák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u6	I would like to propose a discussion within the framework of the general debate in the committees within a shorter period of 30 days to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u7	Thank you. Ambassador, please. Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u8	I don't know, the material has 134 pages. Thirty days isn't enough for me. However, I do not have the ambition to debate the content of this bill, but sometimes I want to point out what we actually approve of. Sometimes we find it in an international contract, I find nice paragraphs here. Without attacking them, I would like to draw your attention, for example, to the third point of this bill. [[Some Members are discussing among themselves, there is a line around Mr Faltynek.]] I'd like all my colleagues to hear it, I think it's a nice paragraph. In Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (a) " buffaloes, horses, asses" is replaced by " zebras, buffalo Indians, horses, donkeys." [[Bos taurus]] [[Bos indicus]] [[Bubalus bubalis]] [[Equus caballus]] [[Equus asinus]] Now tell me whether we need it in the law - yes or no. I really don't know, and I don't even have ambition. It reminded me of the famous cooperation agreement, I don't know which area where all modes of transport were appointed and each had its paragraph with the fact that it is very important. And then I was intrigued, and it's not that technical anymore, but it really feels like crap to me... I have to look in that bill for a while. I can't find it, so I'll put it out of my head. I've already found it: § 5c, par. 4. And those are really nice sentences. I think it's worth showing our citizens what we approve of: "The change in the breeding programme may only be made on the basis of a change in the decision approving the breeding programme.'; That's a nice official sentence, you wouldn't think of that. That if I wanted to make a change according to the decision that I had to change the decision itself. However, to appreciate the Department of Agriculture, unlike the previous material, there is a fiction of consent. If the Ministry of Agriculture does not decide on the application to amend the breeding programme within 30 days, the application shall be notified to the breeders involved in their breeding programmes of the approved change as approved and recognised breeding association. If it were in the law of construction, those roads would have stood long ago if we had this. I don't know if we could use those buffaloes and the rest of them pretty Latin listed. Seriously, though. Sounds like an absurd harmonisation to me. Really absurd. If you look, the underlined sentences are implementation, and that's exactly the proof of when it's completely unnecessary. Absolutely useless. I'm saying, I have no suggestion, the law will be passed without a problem, because who would read it? One hundred and thirty-four pages of the breeding law. I believe that the interest associations and those involved are discussed, but what do we need it for? I wonder, Mr. Secretary. What do we need this for? I can't think of it. I'm not an expert. But when I read it and try to translate it into Czech, I really wanted to tell you to look at the materials we approve of sometimes. It's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u9	Yes, that was Mr Stanjura. And now, with a point of fact, the President of the KSČM MEP, Mr Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u10	Thank you for the floor. Just a short line for the previous speaker. Mr President, we always say here to each other that what is not in the law is not as if it were not. It's good here when the species are exactly named. Because maybe you don't know, you know, there are many donkeys, for example. There are also many species of donkeys, donkeys or donkeys related to equidae, and here it must be clearly and unambiguously stated by law that they are donkeys, which are also named in Latin here. There's no other donkey from a wide range of donkeys. That's the first thing. And the other thing. Plemenařina may be a little complicated and incomprehensible in the language. But believe that it is the long-term first experience empirical, then also given experience repeatedly embodied in the rules and laws that it is written correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-007-026.u11	Thank you. Now I'd like to read an apology. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes today from 3:00 p.m. and tomorrow from 9:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and tomorrow from 2:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. I do not have another application for a general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the Minister or Mr Pražák are interested in final words. They don't. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee, I call the Member of the Gong, the O.R.'s a little empty. We'll wait. I'll read what we're going to vote on. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a guarantee. So I wonder if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I don't see a proposal, so we'll proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee? Initiating vote now. Please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 58, 166 Members voted in favour of 151, versus zero. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. [[15.50 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. And now, here in the general debate, a proposal has been made to shorten the deadline for the 30-day hearing of the Act, as Mr Pražák has said. So we will now proceed to the next vote and we will vote on whether we agree to reduce the time limit for discussion by 30 days. I'm opening the vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 59, Mr 166, in favour of 117, against 32. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill will be negotiated within a period of 30 days. This discussion of the press is over for the moment and we will proceed to the next press. This is about
