ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u1	114. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 /German press 287/ - 3rd reading So now we're going to continue in order. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík is on the floor in the general debate, so I will ask you to speak, and Mr Ivan Bartoš will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present an opinion on the state budget on behalf of the Pirates Parliamentary Club. We believe that the government has resigned from trying to find savings in the state's operating expenditure. That's our basic reservation to the state budget. We think that at a time of such a huge increase in income, the government should be able to keep the spending under control. For this reason, we have proposed some set of austerity measures under Amendment B58, which will save around CZK 11 billion, and we propose to move them into the government's budgetary reserve. Without the approval of this amendment, we will certainly not support the budget as a whole. The other thing that we have a problem with in this budget is, above all, the way that budget is created. He creates a de facto inertia, when the budget for the previous year is taken, the expenditure increases across the board, and then in a few chapters a larger amount of money is added. Of course, we welcome the increase in teachers' salaries. It is a chapter where, of course, we are willing to commend the government, even though it is less than what the House originally wanted. Respectfully, we have wanted an increase since September. But with the exception of this positive development chapter, the budget is actually built on inertia. I dare say that a similar budget would be presented by the administrative government, and the moment Andrej Babiš boasts that he wants to move the Czech Republic forward, the budget absolutely does not respond. There are no funds to modernize the state. There aren't even covered in those chapters that are among the six government priorities. The budget does not count on pension reform at all, even though the government's programming declaration lists it among the priorities. Likewise, the budget is not balanced, even though the balanced budget is in the government's programming declaration. Once again, the budget does not address digitalisation, even though it is referred to as the government's priority. Furthermore, the budget does not prepare the Czech Republic for the possibility of worsening the economic situation. In the event of an economic crisis, our public finances are worse off than in 2008. After all, the crisis that may come to light over the next few years - the German economy is slowing down, and our economy is no longer driven by companies, but by household consumption. The signs that the slowdown is coming are quite obvious. And despite this situation, the government instead of preparing a pillow for worse times, increasing spending, acting pro-cyclically, now at that time of growth, we are adding money beyond what the state can collect on taxes in the economy, and then, when the crisis comes, there will be no means to mitigate the effects of the crisis, for example through public investment in infrastructure. Indeed, the National Budget Board draws attention to this, according to which, in the event of a slowdown in the economy, deficits will quickly reach a hundred-billion-dollar amount per year. [[14.40 hours]] Another problem, of course, is low investment. There is a positive shift against the previous year, but in the volume of the state budget, investments are still well below 10%. Moreover, the past shows that even the planned investments are not being realized by the government. According to the Supreme Audit Office, only about 50 percent of planned investments were made last year, so we'll see what happens. Let us hope that at least this chapter will be exhausted this year. So I guess that's a comment on the budget as a whole. As far as the amendments are concerned, the pirát will strongly support the proposal of fellow Mayors to increase the salaries of teachers, which would compensate for the unabated promise that the government has not increased its salaries since September, as it was under this House's resolution. Of our proposals, the proposal that I, together with the members of all six opposition clubs, have made to match funding for non-state schools, so that in a situation where wages rise by 15% in public schools, there is no sharp decline in competitiveness, actually the ability to maintain existing staff at all. And I stress that these are typically schools that do not have tuition fees, such as ecclesiastical schools in the field of social services or health care. Here I would also appeal to the members of the ANO and the ČSSD movement to support this proposal. Then we have a few symbolic suggestions. We do not think it is appropriate to subsidize from state resources the organisation which honours Mr Ondráček. We also think that he is to receive support from the monument of Jan Palach as a symbolic gesture of this House that we appreciate this personality. And there are things in the area of youth financing, education and beyond. The specific amendments were presented by colleagues who submitted them. Pirates, if our $11 billion austerity package doesn't go through, they're not gonna support the budget. And we hope that next year the government will try to take more account of the priorities of the programming statement so that the statement is not just a piece of paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u3	That was Mr. Ferjenčík. And now I'm going to ask for a speech from the MP... In fact, first. So, Minister. Minister Staněk to the facts. Please, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to reassure my colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies that we have agreed with the Minister of Finance and to the Jan Palach Memorial in front of the National Museum in Prague, the Ministry of Culture will release its own resources. Three million isn't enough to solve it. So we will not address this with an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u5	Thank you. And another de facto Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u6	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your comment, Minister. That, of course, pleases me. However, the point of the amendment was that the House actually gave some symbolic gesture that Jan Palach appreciated. That's probably why we're putting this as an amendment. Pirates generally don't support cutting up a bear. Therefore we as a club e.g. We will not support the repair of Vinohrady's falconry because there is the introduction of the cutting of the bear. However, the amendment, which is a principled, symbolic gesture, seems quite appropriate to us. I'm sorry if the Ministry of Culture is willing to fund this event by not doing so through the House resolution. I think Jan Palach deserves it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u7	Another factual one, Minister Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u8	Thank you. So it's just two notes. As far as the symbol is concerned, a colleague who was in the last parliamentary term when Jan Palach really became a symbol for the Chamber of Deputies and the Czech Republic will comment on this. I just want to say so much for myself that, in my opinion, the Committee on Science, Education and Education has spoken on this proposal. I think it gave a clear signal. And as for the symbol, I think that Jan Palach is indeed a symbol. And this is about repairing or reconstructing the memorial. And for that purpose, the Ministry of Culture has already agreed. So the amendment is really redundant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u9	That was Minister Staněk. And now, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u10	Thank you. I would like to respond to my previous speaker about Jan Palach's personality. It was I who suggested that January 16th become an important day in our calendar. Praise God, politicians across the political spectrum have approved this day. We have an important day on the calendar so that future generations can remember this day. In the same way, I think that it might also be appropriate to pursue within the capital city of Prague the zoning plan and Borůvk's sanatorium, which, unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior, specifically the Fire Rescue Corps considered to be the necessary property, so that is when the Fire Rescue Corps decided to sell the building. It was bought by a private owner. We, as the self-government of Prague 2, and I, as mayor, were discussing whether it would be appropriate for a part of Borůvk's sanatorium to be made a room that would remind not only of Jan Palach but also of the tortured prisoner Toufar. So from this point of view, I would like to stand up for the Minister that our Chamber of Deputies really appreciates the legacy of Jan Palach. He appreciates the legacy of the tortured prisoner and priest Mr. Toufar. And maybe here I would ask the Ministry of Culture for futuro to help us with the reconstruction of Vyšehrad railway station and possibly contribute to the reconstruction of the memorial site in Borůvk's sanatorium. That's where I think it really makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u11	Thank you. We will now return to the general debate. So I'm going to ask the President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš to speak to Mr. Kateřina Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u12	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you to support the amendment, which is also very closely related to education and education and its availability. My proposal, which points to the chapter of the state budget of the General Treasury, is not actually so much visible from the point of view of the budget. This is an option for municipalities to draw money from a specific title for reconstruction, maintenance of small schools. This is a transfer of CZK 300 million. The chapters from which this amount is taken - it is the chapter of the General Treasury and it is the two chapters where the staff reserves are, and the second chapter is the expenditure on financing EU programmes. This transfer is important. We're in the last election... or virtually. last year we... or during this year we met on the Public Administration Committee a few responses from municipalities that would like to draw money in this way, because from European subsidies they cannot finance these jobs and activities because they depend on the number of pupils in these schools. These municipalities do not have any natural increase in the number of pupils, so they cannot draw European subsidies. These are funds that would fill this title, and then the municipalities could draw money from it for the reconstructions. So it is actually a transfer of funds within the chapter and the fulfilment of an already existing chapter, where money can be drawn from the existing programme for these reconstructions in municipalities, which de facto leads to the municipality having enough resources for its activities. He doesn't even have to close the schools. Some of these buildings are actually very old, and interest in this money was expressed during this year, when several applications arrived at the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and we would also like the possibility of this funding being subsequently promoted, and the individual councils could actually ask for the money in this title. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u13	That was President Bartoš. I'll read two apologies. Mr Jan Farský apologizes between 14.30 and 16.00 due to the hearing and Mr Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. So I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. However, the MP is not here, so we will put her application at the end if she arrives. Mr Jan Skopeček will now prepare Mr Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna say a few reasons why I can't support the budget. I've been talking for a long time at first reading. The first reason is that the budget is procyclical, which means that at the time of the economic boom, we are still starting public spending, or we are trying to help the economy, even though the private sector works. Expansive fiscal policy would make sense at a time of economic recession, but it doesn't make sense at a time of economic growth. The main problem is that by the time the economic recession actually comes, there won't be enough money because we're spending it at a time of growth. Another thing that bothers me about the budget is that he's pulling more money out of taxpayers' pockets. I'm sure the Minister will admit that the compound tax quota is growing, which means that the state will raise more money from taxpayers, which I think they could spend better because it can do better than the state. The government's redistribution, of course, is also growing, the state's spending is growing continuously, so the power and influence of the state is growing and the freedom is dwindling. As far as expenditure is concerned, not only is the state redistribution growing, but the structure of the spending party also does not, in my view, develop well. When we look at capital spending, I recognise that, unlike the previous budgets for next year, the government is counting on an increase in investment funds, and that is certainly a commendable thing to commend, too, some parameter of the budget. However, it is necessary to ask questions and to think about the extent to which the government will be able to invest the capital expenditure, given that there is no dramatic change in the regulatory environment, which largely blocks the investment activity. And here, to be fair, once again, I add that this is not just a problem for the current government, that the regulatory environment, especially with regard to spatial planning, the building process, was also signed by the political representation of the previous. Although it is necessary to say that the YES movement has both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Regional Development, which are the two most important ministries, which should be leaders in the liberalisation, so that it can be built both in the public sector and in the private sector, so it has been in its hands for x years and the positive shift is not there. Capital expenditure decreases continuously in proportion to state budget expenditure. Just for your attention, in 2015 the ratio of capital expenditure to total budget expenditure was 13.5%, in 2019 I calculated it roughly and it is about 8 percent. So the structure of expenditure, the spending party, is changing in the sense that more and more money is relatively occupied by current expenditures, social expenditures, and we have an ever smaller share of capital expenditures, i.e. expenditures to ensure that our country is moved forward. Of course, the deficit of the state budget is also unacceptable, with CZK 40 billion at the time of economic growth meaningless. That's the reflection of the expansionary fiscal policy. Normally, it would be normal to have a balanced budget. That is why the ODS and individual Members also came up with an amendment of CZK 40 billion, which we propose to move to a reserve item or to a government debt service item. We want to show that the state budget could have been prepared evenly balanced and that there are expenditures for which it is possible to save and have a balanced budget, just as they will have a balanced budget in Slovakia, just as our neighbours in Germany have a balanced budget for six years. We could have a balanced budget, too, if at least a little responsibly succeeded. The 40-billion-dollar deficit is not only unacceptable, because the Czech economy is growing and should not pursue expansionary monetary policy, but it is unacceptable when you look at the additional revenue available to the government next year. The government thanks to economic growth, as it proposed in the state budget - and here I must add that the assumption of tax collection is planned on the basis of a realistic economic forecast, these are not in some way imaginary or exaggerated figures - however, even with conservative progress, the government is counting on CZK 150 billion in addition compared to this year's budget year. And I ask the government how it is possible that at a time of economic growth, with low unemployment, when economic growth generates CZK 150 billion extra, how it is able to implement a state budget deficit of CZK 40 billion at such a time. And there's no argument that the state budget could end up in the finals better than planned. If the ministers of this government say so in advance when discussing it, in my opinion, this indicates that they do not fully respect the most important law of the year, which is the state budget. The state budget is a material that gives economic signals to investors, to people who will be willing to finance government debt, i.e. to buy government bonds, to economic operators, and when the government says in advance that it is preparing an unrealistic budget, that the deficit is actually puffed up in advance so that it can turn out better at the end of the year, not only is it disrespectful to the Chamber of Deputies that approves this state budget, but it is, above all, a false signal that the Czech government is sending towards the economy. So the main reasons are clear. At a time of economic growth, we are to have a balanced budget, which is not. At a time when there is no balanced budget and we have a deficit, we need to see where the extra spending goes. They will not go to investments that would somehow develop the Czech Republic, but are dominantly used for operating or social expenditures. All you have to do is point out that if you look at social costs, in addition to unemployment aid, although we have economic growth, all the other social expenditure items in the state budget are growing for next year. This is simply not a normal situation at a time of economic growth. Imagine that the economy is going into recession, there will be far greater demands on social spending and, thanks to the economic recession, lower revenue from the state budget, from what the Czech government, whatever it is, will be paying. So an unacceptable deficit. The government continues to implement pro-cyclical fiscal policy, which will be especially a problem at a time of recession when expansionary monetary policy still has some justification, but it will not be on expansionary policy at that time, and any political representation, thanks to its current irresponsible management, will be forced to cut back, at the least appropriate moment, when paradoxically it will fall on the most socially weak fellow citizens. Capital expenses. Although the spending side of the budget is swelling, capital spending is growing relatively, and, as I said, 8 percent for next year, it was still at 13.5% in 2015. Well, for me, it's a huge problem that the government wants to pull more money out of people's wallets and that the compound tax quota is growing by some percentage continuously up. The problem of public finances, virtually. the spending parties, there are also mandatorial expenses, I'm sure the Minister is well aware of that, because the way they are growing continuously - they will be stable next year, but only thanks to relatively high economic growth. At a time when the economic growth would not be so high, the share of mandatorial spending is growing year after year, and of course it narrows the whole government and the Minister's scope for active fiscal policy. The problem of mandatorial spending will, of course, be raised, and until any political representation approaches politically unpopular, yet necessary reforms especially of the pension system and health system, no one will do anything about the mandatorial expenditure. [[15.00 hours]] And whoever's drawing up the budget, the mandatory expenses will hold back so that the government, however politically colored it, can do an active fiscal policy. And that is probably what I blame most on this government, namely that the period of relatively high booms and record low unemployment is not used to make at least a little responsible reforms, at least a little reform action in the sense that our pension and health system should be maintained. Because at what point other than today's economic growth do these reforms? As soon as there is a recession, and no one please summon it, any changes in the pension or health system will, of course, be much more painful and more demanding. For all these reasons, and I don't think they're politically ugly, but they're hard economic thesis, or I dare say the truth, I can't support this draft state budget, and I ask you all to think about it. After all, some of us are going to be four, some eight, some twelve years, but if we don't take advantage of the good economic weather and do something about public finances, we're not going to fix them for a period of worse economic numbers, so the political representation that comes after us is going to have a lot worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u15	So it was Mr Skopeček and I will now ask Mr Václav Klaus to speak and Mr Stanislav Juránek will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me also say a few of my own views on the budget presented to us. We are dealing with amendments here, billions here, billion there, many of them are meaningful, many are not. But those are little things, and we're missing the point. If we look at the budget, it's clear that you don't have a plan. You're just spending money. You spend like Špidla when he says, "Sources are." Sources are because it's a conjuncture. Of course, the conjuncture is not your fault. And you're spending money, and you're borrowing money. I'm going to go to the education example. Over the last two years, the budget has increased by CZK 41 billion, from 103 to 144 in regional education. Forty percent of it goes into it. Has our children's knowledge improved by 40 percent? Or do you have a plan? No. Have wages increased by 40 percent of teachers? No. It's going to increase by 15, and you're going to take the other half of it from their personal. So you're just gonna put it all in that dubious reform of education funding. You have no concept whatsoever. When I intersected the Prime Minister, the poor guy didn't know what I was talking about. Minister Plaga, he knows what I'm talking about, but he doesn't do anything, or he doesn't have the political strength in his own club to move it any way he can. So you don't have a concept in the budget, which is why you're putting a budget like this under the baton of the Czechoslovak Social Democratic Party, and that's where we're going to put all these changelings about eating pupils and stuff. So you have the same concept as in foreign policy. And it's sad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u17	So that was Mr Klaus. I will now ask for Mr Juránek's speech. Mr. Čižinský will be ready. Well, you have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, my colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say something about the essential points that KDU-ČSL brings into this budget by these amendments. At the same time, I want to say at the beginning that our approach is a little different than it was just here. We are indeed prepared to support the budget, provided that, from my point of view, there are details of about CZK 2.5 billion to be added. The first thing we are talking about, which is the most important thing for us, is the issue of social services. And I'm gonna start from another side here because I'm gonna try to convince you to listen to me, even though I know it's been a long time. There's this thing where we have the social services financed across the county. And those regions themselves have decided, or the resolution of the regional committee has spoken of the need to think about this chapter. That means, at the edges, they know they're missing some money. And I'll try to tell you what that money is. The regions as such divide money for services both for organisations established by the region and for organisations working in social services outside the region. That means it's some charity, deaconia. And the region gets into a situation that when it lacks money, of course, it will, logically, first satisfy its own organizations and not remain on the outside. And it does not allow the regions to do something that exists at the same time in the Pardubice Region and previously existed in South Moravia, and that is the multiannual financing of social services outside the region. And I'll tell you what happens if at least 800 million crowns aren't there. This will mean that some of the activities that charity is doing will not be funded and all the investments that have invested in this in recent years will fall. And they invested in it in cooperation with the county and anyone else. This means that these 800 million crowns will probably come to the edge anyway in some way over the next year, but for those charities it will be too late, the diacons and others that deal with it. Because they're gonna have to cancel the job, they're gonna have to cancel the particular service that helps handicapped people or helps old people. And these are things the county doesn't do. That means, it's particularly important here that in this matter and in the future, this matter will burden us in such a way that, in fact, what those regions will do in the future, when these services end, they will need them, so they will have to introduce them and it will be the mandatory expenditure of the budgets of a number of regions. This means that it is 800 million crowns, which will still need to be found and transferred from the item in some way next year. That means it's not an excessive request. Otherwise, the original calculation spoke of CZK 1 billion and CZK 800 million. However, this is how the social sphere agreed that at least 800 million crowns are needed to maintain the current situation, or to introduce things that are mandatory to be introduced this year. So that's for the 800 million crowns. Please, if I have taken a good look, we will vote eight times on this matter. And as part of that, I know that the highest proposal there gives the ODS - CZK 929 million. They also have the calculation figured out, that was the exact amount they calculated as a minimum. But then it was said there was a way to lower it. Then the vote will be six times, not seven times the vote will be on the sum of CZK 800 million, and then the vote will be on CZK 200 million for the ninth time. Of course, every crown is good, but the 200 million crowns are really so great that it won't help us anymore. That's for the 800 million crowns, please. And now to wake you up a little bit, I'm gonna tell you I'm a shiny guy, and as a shiny guy, of course, I want to sign up for some things, and it's not just a question of bark. It is an issue that is very important and concerns climate and air and the item that is in the Ministry of the Environment. And what I'm saying here is that this is a very necessary item. This item - it has already been said here by my previous speakers, to be exact, there was no man, but two women have already mentioned this item - and I want to tell you that this item is very important here and that it will need to be bigger in the future. This means drawing from this item please make sure that it is only very careful and that it remains as much as possible. [[15.10 hours]] And what I'm saying now is that I'm from Mendel University where I studied, and that there's a team of foresters within this university that set up the forests that are in the Amazon basin. It would seem awfully far away, but they're actually saving the world's environment. Because there are two lungs in this world. One lung is the Amazon basin, I'm trying to popularize it, Doctor, and the other part is in Siberia. And what I'm saying now is that I'm from Mendel University where I studied, and that there's a team of foresters within this university that set up the forests that are in the Amazon basin. The result they achieve, the very representatives of Mendel University, and I must say that even in cooperation with the Faculty of Forestry in Prague, it is quite extraordinary because they are the only successful ones planting trees where gold was mined with cyanide. And the things we do, we don't usually learn about them, we woodsmen learn about it from the professional press, but this information doesn't appear in the regular press. But these are the very important things that are very important in terms of climate and in terms of air. And we need to do it in our own country. And that's where we get into such a position that we need the climate and the air from one side, from the other side, and the question of supporting the bark forests that everyone is talking about right now, and that's why we need to consider and just look for the paths in both of these directions that we are talking about at the moment. I just wanted to suggest that there are also a number of good items in this budget that must not be forgotten and which must in some way be defended. I wanted to stress that we, apart from social services, of course, still have the support of education and the support of firefighters who need these things there, and they need them extremely. However, I would like to say again and again that we need very little to support this budget, because we want to turn to those who need it most, and that is precisely the social and school area. I hope that we agree on this support if not in today's vote on the budget, so in next year, because those things that are very sensitive will have to be dealt with if not today on the budget, so they will have to be dealt with in the course of next year. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to approving the budget, in which, as I have mistakenly told you, I have now calculated this, it will not be eight votes on social areas, but a total of nine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u19	That was Mr. Juránek. I will now request a speech from Mr Jan Čižinský and prepare for Mrs Kateřina Valachová. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u20	Have a good day, thank you for your word. I won't be long, I would just like to ask for the support of two amendments, B61 and B62. It is 20 million crowns and 20 million crowns for care of the landscape. And the point is that, at the moment, and even on the Committee on the Environment, we have said this, there is no longer any small intervention in nature and in the countryside outside the territory of national parks or protected areas. It's kind of like cutting orchid bows, so we'd like to call it even. So I'm asking for the support of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u21	Thank you. I will now ask for a performance by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. And Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u22	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear government, education is an investment in the future. We all agree on that, and we've been listening to it for years. It's definitely an investment that's worth borrowing, because it's going to come back many times. I agree with the previous speakers that we must, however, be able to invest in the right direction. To education, to the education system, to the education system. On the other hand, I want to use one word that I can think of when I've been listening for years to debates about how education is a priority. That word is hypocrisy. Hypocrisy, which actually doesn't have any particular political color. I don't think any political party got it for themselves, but it's still happening. Hypocrisy because in 2015 to no one, nobody, I didn't hear it in a public debate, as a citizen, not as a politician, nobody talked about it, but no one thought it weird that higher and higher numbers of children in schools don't care that we need more teachers to do it, we need to pay them well. And this axe, which was removed by the previous government of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement after the Ministry of Finance's calculation, was the Minister of Finance for the budget 2016, was a billion and a half. A billion and a half without permission, someone borrowed from the teachers' pockets! Just one of the little things you forget. Nor did anyone find it strange that in 1990, in the 1990s, teachers and teachers had equal salaries or comparable salaries with doctors. And what about today, ladies and gentlemen? Isn't that hypocrisy? Every year, we go by billions. This year for the first time, this year for the first time, and I have pointed out several times that this is the right thing to do, and it is worth thanking regardless of the political jersey, the Minister of Finance did not stretch by billions and evenly increase the various parts of the chapter of the Ministry of Education so that this overlay by billions, which is extremely embarrassing due to the underfinancing of Czech education, was then hypocritically not shifted to whom? Well, to the school principal. Because we're gonna add 15% to the teachers, they're gonna love it. They've been listening to this all year, and then they look at the paycheck, and again, ladies and gentlemen, you know, they're not gonna find that 15 percent again. Hypocrisy. Why? Because we have long years, until the previous year, and this year we repeat it for the second time, we have also failed to add school and school heads to unedagogical workers. Wonder the world! They exist, too. They're in school, they're doing their job, and they're supposed to be paid for it. Well, what's the director gonna do if he didn't get increased funding for non-teaching workers? Well, he must have taken it somewhere. Where did he get this? Well, teachers' salaries. And again, we can't figure out why they won't find the promises that teachers hear from TV on the payroll. Several times there has been a reform of regional education funding. In fact, I believe that most citizens and citizens under this do not imagine much what it is, regional education reform. So I'll say what it should be and why we've pushed through school funding changes. Because existing funding for schools is not fair. Because the state doesn't pay what is to be taught, and it doesn't pay as many teachers, or it hasn't paid as many teachers as we need for the number of children in schools. And those who run the numbers of buyers here by billions here and billions there, so I remind them that they are very often the ones who scream that the teacher should have fewer pupils in the classroom. That we need it for quality. We need it for language education, we need it for natural sciences. They're the same guys. Does anyone think it won't cost money? It's gonna cost money! Three budgets in a row are record. Yes, for education. And we can have a debate about, of course, the ratio to GDP. You're right, it should be more. I would like and ask all my colleagues and colleagues across the political spectrum to support this resolution so that the House sets one target for this country: 5% of GDP by 2025 at the latest. It's an ambitious target. It means the same expenses as Austria. But we deserve it. All of us. Not as politicians, but as parents, grandparents, and as citizens and citizens who know that children are our future. [[15.20 hours]] I am glad that we are more or less factual in the debate on education, that we exchange our views and that it is so often mentioned here in the state budget of education. It wasn't always like that. Let me ask you, colleagues, to be factual in the case of a debate on education. Let us exchange different political views, but please agree on one thing - we need better-funded Czech education, we need more and more money to make our education modern, the education system is modern. Please let us not be appalled by the modern word that it should perhaps be a special method from abroad that should devastate the quality of Czech education. But let's face it, it's going to cost money, and that's the best investment that we should agree on. Thank you for your attention. And I will be happy if the House not only supports the education budget with its vote, but also considers the support of those amendments that can increase expenditure for education and can add wrinkles to the Minister of Finance. But even if we fail today, I believe that the Ministry of Finance will support the repeated growth of the school budget next year and will continue to do so. Thank you. Thank you, Treasury Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u23	That was Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I will now ask Mr Vít Kaňkovský to speak and Mr Jan Lipavský will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u24	Good afternoon, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me mention the amendments I tabled at second reading at third reading and ask you for their support. They're heading into two chapters. To the chapter of the MPSV and the chapter of the Ministry of Health. The first amendment, which is tabled in five variants, is heading towards so much already being discussed here in the financing of social services by 800 miles. Crowns. I presend that this is not the ideal amount that social services would really need. The previous speakers, colleague Pavla Golasowská, colleague Marek Výborný, colleague Juránek and others, have already spoken about this problem. To sum up, the requirement of social service providers, but also of regions and in the first phase of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was to increase the financing of social services to 17.2 billion. CZK for 2019. The government has submitted a proposal for 15.5 billion. At first, which Minister Maláčová referred to as insufficient, but later revised this claim with the fact that it was historically the highest allocation to social services. Today I briefly discussed this during the debate this morning. Yes, it's true. In previous years, the amount of social services has never been so high. But in my opinion, it is necessary to put this amount in the overall context. It is necessary to recall what we have already discussed here in the morning, and this is the end of the support of some projects, especially in social prevention. The Minister here has announced that he will finance it as part of the move from the Employment Operational Programme, so, of course, I welcome that. However, there are at least two other areas that do not address the draft budget. The other area, which is much, much more complex, and here is the announced 200 miles. As an amendment, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia - and I am not criticizing it, I merely mention it, and on this amendment, the Government states that it is willing to nod - in my opinion it is completely inadequate. I'm talking about the issue of social services salaries. It is no secret that in social services the staff is undervalued in the long term, but in the vast majority of cases they are highly qualified personnel. It is also important to mention that in the last two years the situation has improved somewhat. More money has been devoted to social services salaries, there has been an increase, but it is still insufficient with really large competition in the labour market. In this respect, the next year's tariff increase by 7 % compared to the announced 5% is a positive assessment, but it is necessary to put ourselves in the role of directors who are in charge of personnel policy in individual social services facilities. If these directors do not have the opportunity to support their employees with an over-the-counter salary component, and these are not included in the draft state budget, they will continue to be left by their employees. This means that if we only approve a 200 million-dollar increase in social services, then we really need to talk about the fact that social services directors are going to get into a very difficult situation - they are already in it today, we need to ask them, most of them are already struggling with personnel shortages. And if the situation on the labour market does not change radically, some workers from social services will be forced to leave. Since many of them are college students, their situation on the labour market is relatively simple in this respect. Then there's the third area. I also touched her briefly in the morning. It's her psychiatric reform. This is not much to be said, but it is necessary to mention it because new mental health centers, apart from psychiatric and psychological care, will also have new forms of social services. At the moment, these projects are mostly funded by the European Structural Funds. This support will come to an end gradually and we will look for resources to finance both the health part, which falls within the Ministry of Health and the funding of the new types of social services. So, in summary, I consider the increase in funding for social services subsidies to be one of the key tasks in today's approval of the state budget. In my opinion, but also in the opinion of the Association of Providers, the Social Commission of the Regional Council, the 800 million we require to increase to social services is a very sober amount that will ensure, at least, that we keep social services at the current level. It is known that more than 900 thousand people live in the Czech Republic. disabled citizens, with at least half of them using some form of social services. Whether social services work or do not work in sufficient quality, but also to a sufficient extent, they also interfere with their families, because family members often take care of them. And whether they have any social services available or unavailable, they are of course very interested. Therefore, whether we can finance social services is a message to the disabled, but also to their families, whether the government and parliament consider the quality of their lives to be a priority or not. I therefore ask you very much to consider supporting the amendments that come in several variants. For one thing, it is my amendment under letter B17, which in five variants gives the opportunity to increase the subsidy to social services by 800 million. CZK, or there is a proposal from my colleague Pavla Golasowská, who is also coming up with a proposal to increase by 800 miles. CZK, only draws from other sources, but there is also a proposal from a esteemed colleague Olga Richterová, who is also trying to increase by 800 miles. CZK or a colleague of Jan Bauer from the ODS, which increases by more than 900 miles. Crowns. Dear colleagues, I am very much asking you to seriously consider supporting at least one of these amendments in the final vote on the amendments. Indeed, those who are disabled and their families need it. And it is, of course, a signal to workers in social services. It is certainly no coincidence that the resolution and support of the amendments were issued by the association of providers already mentioned, the Social Commission of the Association of the Regional Council, but also for example. Charity of the Czech Republic as the largest operator of health-social services, diacony as the second largest operator and of course many others. [[15.30 hours]] I would further like to mention the two amendments already going to another chapter in the revised chapter of the Ministry of Health. The first is the amendment under the designation B19/1, where I respond to the need that is growing in our country, which is palliative and hospice care. It is a very good sign that in recent years the Czech Republic has been more palliative and hospice care than in the past. Thankfully, in the last 15 years we have managed to build fifteen working stone hospices, unfortunately there is still missing stone hospice in one region, it is my home Region Vysočina, but it is also necessary to say that field hospice services are very well developed. And that, of course, is a very good signal, and it needs to be continued. Unfortunately, the support from the State towards hospice care is not at a sufficient level. Although the Ministry of Health has set up a subsidy programme to support hospice care, especially in the material technical area, it is allocated only 12.5 miles for the next year. Crowns. In my opinion, this is completely inadequate not only for next year, but also for more years. For this reason, I am proposing an amendment that would increase this subsidy programme by at least 10 million. Crowns. Once again, I'm presenting it in an alternative way. In one variant I go to the chapter of the Office of the President of the Republic. Perhaps you might think that this is some sort of gesture towards Mr. President as an expression of my disapproval of his politics and his behavior. Yes, I am one of the critics of the President, but the President is a long-term supporter of hospice care, and I must say that this is the area for which I commend him. That's why I assume he wouldn't be in trouble if he had 10 miles. from the relatively rich budget of the Office of the President of the Republic was intended precisely for godly activity, which is hospice care. However, I suggest another source of funding to support hospice care, so I believe that we will be able to choose from at least one option. The last amendment, where I would like to ask for your support, is the amendment under letter B18, where I propose strengthening the resources of the Ministry of Health in the sub-chapter, which goes to primary disease prevention. I was talking about it here at second reading. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic is a cinderella in the application of primary disease prevention. We manage to raise funds into acute and chronic care for our patients. That's perfectly fine, of course. However, if we want to achieve a qualitative improvement in the health of the Czech population, we must take fundamental steps in primary prevention. And here it needs to be said, it is not just for this government, even a few governments backwards and even those where KDU-ČSl sat, the primary prevention was devoted very little or not at all. And if we take the example of the Nordic countries, but also some countries west of us, really well implemented effective disease prevention can, on the one hand, significantly improve citizens' health, but it can also save significant funds in the state budget that are intended to treat patients. Dear colleagues, I firmly believe that you will make a good decision in the final vote on the amendments, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u25	That was Mr. Kaňkovský. So one factual one, Mr Marian Jurečka, and then Mr Jan Lipavský will be prepared. You have your word, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u26	Thank you. I have heard here from Minister Maláčová's mouth, but also some other speakers that there is an argument to argue, and that is the record-highest budget. I'll ask the Prime Minister or the Secretary of Finance. Is there a government minister here who doesn't have the record-highest budget this year? I think everyone sitting here has a record-highest budget this year because this economy can just afford it. Unfortunately, the budget is not balanced. I am saying this because let us not really use this argument to the public here that we say in quotation marks that, for example, we have solved the problem in social services and their subfinancing with the argument: we have a record-highest budget. Even in the coming years, maybe decades, until the demographic curve in the Czech Republic breaks, the population will not decline, so I dare say that in the future the demands on the social budget will grow because we are extending the length of our lives because we have fewer and fewer children who would be able to take care of their parents at home. It's just, unfortunately, the trend and the fact of this company. And what Mr Kaňkovský and many others draw attention to here is simply a message to those providers and, above all, to the extent that we remember the satisfaction of those hugely open scissors, especially the salaries of these people who work as caregivers, nurses, when scissors between a social nurse and a nurse in the health area are now extremely open. And that's what it is, if that's what we're able to change in this discussion of the budget during the amendments and send a message to these people that it's not that this ad hoc may be resolved sometime in the middle of the year, but that this House has responsibility for this area and these people appreciate it and is ready to deal with it right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u27	That was factual. I therefore now call on Mr Jan Lipavský. Please. Mr Radek Holomčík will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant pre-Christmas afternoon. Although the holiday is coming, the Prime Minister should realise that he is still Prime Minister of this republic and not Ježíšek. Otherwise, I cannot explain the budget presented by him, in which he spends millions, or rather billions, on the left and right in an embarrassing populist attempt to bribe our citizens to forgive him otherwise incompetent policies. In today's vote, pirates will not join the coalition of Communists and Social Democrats and will not support the draft State Budget Act for 2019. I will now explain why the proposal is completely nonsensical from a fiscal point of view, and I will then remind you of items that are desperately lacking in the draft budget and from which, unlike populist bribes, the Czech Republic could actually benefit. How is it that, at a time when our economy is doing best, we are planning a deficit budget? Everyone, at least a little rationally thinking, knows that the fat years of the boom serve to reduce the debt of the state optimally, at least not further. We want to treat the economy not as a milk cow of populist promises, but responsibly. Economic growth slows, hard brexit becomes closer to reality every day and can have a negative impact on our economy. Pirates want to be ready for the recession. That's why we designed the austerity package that takes at least 10 billion. CZK from the budget. I would like to remind you that the budget is not a purely technical matter, but it is a public declaration, a real plan of what the government has for the following year with the country plans which are priority areas for it and which it does not consider important. The budget is a tangible expression of government policy. We Pirates are pushing for a balanced budget. Even within this budget, we want to make all expenditure more effective and align it with the country's value, strategic and geopolitical direction. My comments will therefore cover not only foreign and defence policy, but also other areas. [[There's noise in the room.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget is growing from a nominal point of view. Really, however, key items are completely ignored. This is primarily about the remuneration of ministerial officials, embassy budgets and the means for humanitarian, development and transformation aid. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a long-standing problem with obtaining quality and competent staff who would have adequate linguistic and academic facilities. Let us not forget that the requirements for admission to the Ministry are very high. We are desperately short of college-educated people speaking for the labour market in such attractive languages as Russian, Chinese or Persian. These are the skills that the private sector balances with gold. The wage conditions are the lowest in comparison with other ministries. I'd say they're really consistent with some summer job at the supermarket. Having capable diplomats should be our priority. These are people who represent our country abroad and help shape image with our partners. After all, we must also have quality diplomats thanks to our Prime Minister and his coalition partner KSČM. Thanks to his international shame, our foreign representation is increasingly demanding. We need the most capable diplomats and negotiators who, despite the increasing international shame, are convincingly able to explain to our partners that our countries, like Hungary or Poland, do not change into an autocratic regime and that most of our businesses do not draw subsidies contrary to legislation, but deserve them. [[15.40 hours]] Likewise, it is quite difficult to motivate some diplomats to work in countries where difficult or dangerous conditions, such as Afghanistan. Or the Minister of Foreign Affairs has to collect funds from some embassies, that's the case with the top embassies. I repeatedly criticized Minister Petříček for this. There's no point in discussing this further. With regard to humanitarian, development and transformation aid, these long-term reflect the priorities of the Czech Republic, which are part of the programming declaration and long-term conceptual documents such as the Concept of Foreign Policy of the Czech Republic, the Foreign Development Cooperation Strategy for 2018 to 2030, the Concept of Human Rights Support and Transformation Cooperation or the Strategic Framework of the Republic 2030. The promotion of development and transformation cooperation is therefore in line with our security and economic interests. In the long term, we do not meet the commitments arising from membership of the European Union for development aid and do not provide the promised 0.33 gross national product per year, while the UN recommends as much as 0,7 % for developed countries where we would like to rank. Here we see that the government and extremist parties have their mouths full of how they want to work to mitigate the consequences of economic migration, but in practice we see that this is not reflected in the budget. We have refused the mandatory redistribution of refugees. So be it. There's a consensus. However, we have promised to address the causes of economic migration, especially locally and in places where it makes the most sense, in those incriminating regions. But how is it possible that the budget of the Czech Development Agency is even decreasing year-on-year? What is it, then? I don't understand. The government elects the so-called ostrich algorithm to solve this problem - sticking its head in the sand and pretending that there is no problem. I was talking here about organizations involved in promoting good things. I cannot, therefore, at least marginally mention the budget for Czech NGOs. Our Prime Minister Babiš, through the mouth of Secretary Schillerová, has quite shamelessly tried to take money back a few months. Just because the populist prime minister has been frightened of public pressure this time and has backed away from his intention doesn't mean that later, armed with perhaps a little bit more clever arguments, he won't try again. To a certain extent, NGOs substitute the role of the state in areas where the state cannot or does not want to intervene. They devote themselves to nature conservation, help people get out of debt traps, educate and develop children and young people from socially excluded families or care for seniors. In many of these areas, the State has admitted that non-profit organizations do better work at less costs, and instead of trying to compete with them, it simply releases a certain amount of money out of our taxes, which it compensates or subsidizes for their activities. Non-governments are absolutely essential to the effective functioning of a liberal democratic country. Their activities are important and their services are done efficiently, with a much smaller amount of money than if similar activities were done by the state. Therefore, I cannot stress this enough. The budget for nonprofit organizations must not be touched, and any ideas about reducing it should be shaked out once and for all by populist colleagues. And now I'll take two brief remarks on defense. In defence, it is absolutely essential that the state increases expenditure on cyberdefense of our Czech Republic in a fundamental way. Army, authorities, SAO. It is necessary to organise training, to recruit quality workers. We really need to focus on this, because if we don't, it's gonna catch up with us very soon. We already have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Those experiments are constant. And whoever says otherwise, they're hard to make a mistake. As far as the financing of the military is concerned, there is a long debate about this two percent, more, less. The most fundamental problem in the financing of the army today lies in the fact that the army has a constant problem with the money it gets earmarked from the budget, aloka. We should come up with the idea of creating a financial multi-annual framework where the military gets guaranteed funds that it can spend in any year. The current system doesn't allow it. The army doesn't know how much money it'll have in, like, three years. Then it is absolutely impossible to plan the purchase of more complex projects in any way. I would like to say that the army carries out the most complex acquisitions in the Czech Republic overall. The most complex, the most complex, but also the most expensive acquisitions. To conclude, therefore, I would like to say that the budget is not a purely technical matter, but, above all, a public declaration of what the government has for the following year with our country plans which are priority areas for it and which, on the contrary, do not consider important. I compare the draft budget of Andrej Babiš to him with so many distinctive doughnuts - empty, full of empty calories, he can slap it to the max. We pirát are proposing an alternative that will restore our domestic and foreign political scene. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u29	So now a number of factual points have come up. Before I call on Mr. Petr Dolínek, I will read one apology. Minister Jan Kněžínek apologizes since 14.30 because of his participation in the Senate meeting. And now, just a moment, Mr. Jiří Kobza will then be prepared. You have your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u30	Good afternoon. Now, a colleague here is a little angry with me, he might say something similar, but, you know, I had a chance to read the Prague budget presented by Mayor Hřib of the Pirates. [[Mr Nacher]] And wonder for the world, the budget is the highest in the history of the capital city of Prague. And there's not a penny for savings, for debts. The previous coalition in Prague paid off 8 billion in excess of everything. Here's just a regular debt service. There's nothing there. 70 billion, maybe more, and zero to pay off debts. Don't teach us what you don't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u31	I now call on Mr Jiří Kobza. Mr Nacher will then be prepared. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Michálek, Mr Jurečka. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to the previous speaker, Mr Lipavský, who has given an intriguing speech on the positive activities of nonprofits, and how we should not touch their money and how development aid is needed. But unfortunately, he forgot to say a few basic facts that should be heard here. First of all, development aid implemented through non-profits also finances nonprofits whose own directs consume a relatively large proportion of the money devoted to development aid and makes it more expensive. That's the first thing. The second thing is that he also forgot to say that we have a lot of people who are disabled and have problems getting jobs. They have problems getting caregivers to take away their previous social system reforms. They're having trouble getting aids. And does a fellow pirát tell me that the support of Georgian beekeepers or Bosnian milkers is more important than the support of our physically disabled? I am convinced that all the associations of the disabled will be very happy to hear this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher to the factual, then Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Jurečka. Three applications so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a pretty unique opportunity, probably the only one here in the coalition, in Prague, in opposition. The Pirate Party has it mirrored, vice versa, it is here in opposition, in Prague in coalition. So he doesn't have to hide behind anything anymore. I'll fill in what Petr Dolínek said, and I'll widen it. So the previous coalition in Prague reduced its debt from 30 billion to 19. Prague has the lowest debt relative to income in the last 20 years. Despite the fact that Mr. Mayor in Questions Václav Moravec will tell you that Prague is heavily indebted, as Petr Dolínek said, the crown is not going to pay. Except for the debt service. Not a penny to cut debt! [[15.50 hours]] And when we talk about the budget, I was just asking about some of those things. I know you took over two months ago. What are the investment priorities? Zero! What are the priorities in the area of savings on operating expenditure? Zero. Zero! The only thing we've learned as opposition representatives is that 13 billion. goes into the reserve and then it dissolves next year. So please, nicely, what you're saying here, and I'm not saying that maybe sometimes you don't have a piece of truth, so at least do it yourself! Because you're not just in opposition anymore, you're in a coalition somewhere and you're in a coalition in the capital! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u35	Mr. Mr. Nacher. And now I will ask for Mr Ferjenčík's speech, Mr Jurečka will prepare, Výborný, Černochová, Michálek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u36	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Dolínek and my colleague Nacher. First of all, their work, specifically in Mr Dolínek's case, appreciated exactly 2.87 percent of Prague's voters positively. And you didn't plan on paying off those debts. The fact that you were paying off your debts was the result of the fact that you were unable to make any investments. X billion on subway D you didn't build. X billion on a city circuit you didn't build. X billion on a bunch of other investment projects that you didn't do, and then you logically paid off those debts so you could at least show off something to the voters. Like I said, the voters appreciated you with less than three percent. So much for Prague. Second point. You really can't expect a new coalition to reschedule the entire budget you've prepared in the past month. After all, let us remember last year when KDU-ČSL and ČSSD, then even opposition, supported the budget by preparing it for the previous government in which they sat. It is simply naive to think that a month from now the whole budget can be substantially dug up, and that is why there is an investment reserve in the Prague budget, so that the new coalition has a chance to evaluate its priorities. And I think the voters have assessed it enough. You're embarrassing yourself, Petr!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u37	I will now ask Mr Marian Jurečka to speak. I'm just going to point out right now that I'm applying for a veritable note of nine. Nine Members and Members shall be registered. Mr. Marian Jurečka. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u38	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I have such a request. I think I have a sense of exaggeration, for humor, but we want to address the issue of budget hl here when we discuss this law. m. Prague? We can add Plzeň, Brno, Ostrava and others, we can talk things out here. Náchod reports, etc. Please, let's get back to the point. It was said here by Mr Ferjenčík that if we, too, were preparing the budget in the previous government a year ago, we also supported him here correctly before that year. Use the same from the point of view of your principle of access to these things, whether you are populists or not, even on the question of Prague, but please let's not talk about who did what to whom in Prague. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u39	I will now ask Mr Marek the Výborný to speak and Mr Jakub Michálek will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I wanted to ask Mr Dolínek, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Nacher through you, I really understand that the problems of the municipality of Prague are absolutely fundamental, important even on the premises of this House, but please do not hesitate to discuss this in Mariánské náměstí and let us discuss the state budget and not the municipality of Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u41	Mr Michálek is now in fact prepared by Mr Klaus. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u42	Thank you for the floor. I do not understand why government Members here are trying to divert attention from the point we are discussing, and that is the budget of the Czech Republic. So what I'm saying is, the budget you guys pulled out here, the Prague budget, we didn't process it. That's exactly what you processed! This is the proposal that processed the serving coalition YES and ČSSD! We have approved this proposal that you have prepared after 28 days at the council so that 57 urban areas can prepare for next year's management, and we have castrated all the troubled things, the other 14 billion that will be dealt with so as not to approve any nonsense. So the next time you go into the budget, remember, it's not a pirate's budget, it can't even do it after 28 days, but it's a YES budget, a ČSSD and a Green Party that ended up a month ago in hl. m. Prague. So many facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u43	Mr Klaus now, Mr Bartošek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u44	I would like to point out to the honourable House that citizens do not follow these debates. They're packing presents. So please save the old socialists' fights with the young socialists for something else! [[Fun and applause, in particular, for members of YES 2011 and on the right.]] I am in Prague in opposition, here I am in opposition, I do not understand this world. I feel like I'm some German citizen's Democrat, seeing the Nazis cut themselves with the communists, he doesn't get it. I don't get it either. I'd like to go to a party at 7:00, so please end these debates and let's do some budget work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u45	Mr Nacher now and I have four applications: Mr Nacher, Mr Filip, Mr Lipavský, Mr Dolínek. So, four facts so far. Mr. Mr. Nacher. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u46	I hope for the last time, but I have to respond. First of all, I appreciate my colleagues Výborný, but let us know what we're talking about here. Sometimes you talk completely out of it, too. If you lose the vote here, you're complaining at the microphone, we have to bear it. If I had priority rights, I'd be here every five minutes to respond to something, and I'm also not commenting on what arguments you're using. I'm sorry. As for what my colleague Michálek was talking about. It's beautiful to see the new policy. Notice it! The previous coalition in Prague was composed: YES, ČSSD and Trojkoalice. But he here in the description, look at the log, he said that the previous budget was prepared only by YES and ČSSD. Why is that? Because the current pirát have half of the former troika club in the coalition, so there's the continuity. Not that it's not! It's only for those who don't know the situation in Prague. And otherwise, you had three choices. He said it, Ivan Pilný, former finance minister, pretty clear. You've had three choices that are legitimate, and I think the Treasury Secretary will confirm that. You can either accept the original budget and say that you didn't make it, or do some new things - these are some new priorities, somewhere to cross out, somewhere to add, etc., or follow the budget makeshift. That's how we did it in 2014. These are pure variations. What was done was just the intervariate that's just stupid in that where it's gonna come in handy, that's what they say: it's the previous budget. Where it doesn't come in handy, they say, "We've already improved that." That's what we're talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u47	Now there's only two facts. So President Filip and Mr Dolínek will prepare himself. Prime Minister, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u48	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I quote to you what I received a moment ago by e-mail from one of the leading analysts in the Czech Republic. He says, "I can't watch it." And a substantive remark to the state budget. And I'm going to quote, these aren't my sentences right now: "In the Jewish forum at the beginning of October, exactly 5. 10. 2011 declared then Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek, and I quote: there is no financial crisis in the Czech Republic. The Center for Disease is in the euro area. Source: tyden.cz 6. 10. 2011. Also in 2018 (?) Miroslav Kalousek was Minister of Finance and then, at the beginning of the world economy's turbulence, he said, quote again, the Czech Republic is an island of stability, and he proposed a budget based on more than 4% of economic growth. However, the Czech Republic has not avoided the crisis and the economy has fallen by almost 5%. During his term of office as Minister of Finance, it is public information that the growth of state debt in exactly 1943 days for his term of office reached 274 billion. Crowns and 190 miles. About that. The figures for government debt growth, although not so high, could also be reported by other finance ministers. [[16.00 hours]] As Miroslav Kalousek argued at the time of the beginning of the banking, financial and subsequent economic crisis at the end of the first decade after a year - and was not alone in truth, the PMs of the ODS also expressed themselves in the Chamber of Deputies - that we are not in danger of the crisis, so today they argue that the results of the current government and its prime minister and finance minister are caused only by world economic growth. [[Nesroz.]] Please, stop this demagogy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u49	Thank you. Have a nice evening. Now, please, with Mr Dolínek's factual remark, and Mr Bartošek and Mr Kalousek will prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u50	It's just that you can see the misunderstanding. I didn't say the Prague budget was bad. I'm proud of him. The most money in the history of Prague goes to public transport. There's really a lot of money going into other things. The budget was well prepared. That's not what I said. A colleague of yours read the written speech and was forced to unload that there were no reserves when something was growing. And I say, you don't make reserves anywhere. Nowhere! Write down the speeches. I've already told the Vice-President here this morning. Please write the speeches so that it fits with what you do elsewhere. Don't make something of yourself when you're something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u51	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, President Stanjura came forward, but I said that President Bartošek would now go. So please. In fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u52	Thank you for the floor. I ask nothing more, colleagues and colleagues than for us to go back to the state budget. I will really ask you gentlemen, you gentlemen in Prague, to keep this in the Representation of the capital city of Prague and not confuse the Chamber of Deputies with the Representation of the capital city of Prague. We're dealing with the state budget, not the capital budget. So adjust your language to that, too. And as is the case in life, first we deal with Prague, now I suppose we've been dealing with Kalousek. Now the question is, what do we do next? Go back to the state budget. That's what I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u53	I thank you, and now I ask President Kalousek, whom I had with a point of fact earlier, and then President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u54	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there is probably a vote before us on the worst budget in the last 28 years of the existence of the Czech Republic. However, really, there are three possibilities ahead of us. Either the Czech Republic will have a good budget - that option is already close to zero, it cannot happen. Or maybe he'll have as bad a budget as the government of Andrej Babiš puts it, which is a very bad option. Or there will be no budget, which is the worst option in terms of the stability of our country and the administration of governments and governments. No matter what I think about this budget, and I have said it many times in public space and in this Chamber of Deputies, I wish we had made that decision today. I therefore dare to put forward a procedural proposal to vote on the draft law on the state budget after 19th and 21st hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u55	Thank you for the suggestion. As a procedural motion, I'll put him to a vote now. Then I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. [[Gong.]] I don't see a checkout application at the moment. So I'll wait a while for my colleagues to arrive. I will repeat that we will be voting on the negotiations today and after 19 and 21 o'clock. I see an application for a check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. Please log in with your cards again. The President wants to clarify his proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u56	On behalf of the TOP 09, I would like to request a two-minute break. I lost my vote card somewhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u57	Mr President, it is unusual, but if no one objects, I will grant you a break by 16.06. Then we will vote on voting after 19 and 21.00. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 16.04 to 16.06 hours.]] Thank you all for coming to the O.R., and I repeat what we will be voting on. We will vote on how we can act today and vote on both territorially and factually after 19 and 21 o'clock. I suppose it's a proposal from at least two MPs. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's vote number 132. 178 Members and Members were enrolled, for 148, against 23. The motion was accepted. Then we will act today after 19th and 21st hours. And now we are going back to the debate where I have Mr Stanjuru's point of fact. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u58	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President seems to know what I'm saying. I think you're wrong, Mr Vice-President. So far, we have not decided that we will act after 19 o'clock, because you have had a vote on a proposal that did not comply with legal obligations. But that's not why I applied. He cannot come and say: I suggest we act after 19 o'clock. It simply doesn't meet legal obligations. But speaking of law, it's a good habit that the draft state budget is based on valid legislation. And I'd like to ask the secretary where I can find the National Sports Agency in the law that he has Chapter 362. Since morning I have been searching the Collection of Laws and imagine that there is no institution in the legislation of the Czech Republic, which would be called the National Sports Agency. So, Madam Secretary, how can you propose and support the establishment of a chapter - even if there is zero - an institution that does not exist. I could suggest a chapter of the Ministry of Economics there, because I think it should be created by merging several ministries. So we could vote on Chapter 363 of the Ministry of Economics. And there's no limit to fantasy here. Each of you can make up the title of the chapter. For example, chapter Support for statutory cities in the Moravian-Silesian Region 364. So far, zero, but then with the budget measure, we could put something in there. [[16.10 hours]] I consider the vote on this proposal... or this proposal to be unvoted, so we cannot vote on it at all. And it doesn't matter that he was recommended by the Budget Committee, which, in my opinion, he made up a bill, a draft state budget, or, respectively. It's a state budget law, an institution that doesn't really exist. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u59	Thank you, too. Chairman Kalousek maybe first. It's a factual remark, or a priority right, I'll ask. Really. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u60	I'm sorry. President Stanjura is right, and I misinterpreted it. The procedural proposal for voting on the draft state budget after 19th and after 21st hours was formulated on the basis of the will of two parliamentary clubs - TOP 09 and ANO Club. So we might as well vote on it one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u61	I've seen the approval here, but I understand there was an objection, so let's do it again. So I'm going to call my colleagues back to the ballroom, and then we're going to vote again on voting after 7:00 and 9:00... [[Gong]] It's on the proposal of two ANO and TOP 09... I believe, therefore, that we can vote if there are no objections yet. So I'm opening the vote, asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 133, 182 Members and Members are registered, for 147, against 22. The motion was accepted. I hope it was all right this time. And then we'll discuss your proposal for non-voting a proposal in the procedure. So thank you. This has exhausted the factual remarks at this point in time. President Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just for the record. Either the previous vote on the extension should be declared invalid or put to the vote on the objection. This means that the approval of the State budget cannot subsequently be called into question by not complying with the procedure in the Rules of Procedure. So the previous vote, that is, the first one that Mr Kalousek has put forward, should be dealt with somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u63	Yes. So, for the record, vote number 132 has been nullified because the proposed duty has not been fulfilled. prosit, Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u64	I apologize to President Bartošek. We're just stuck in the grip of tradition. We all know that when I propose something, it's in the interests of both clubs, both TOP 09 and YES. So I guess we're just stuck in this tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u65	Thank you, and I believe we could move on. So I have here Mr Klaus' apologies for Thursday between 9 and 11 for medical reasons. So now we will continue the debate. Please Mr Holomčík, who is duly registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u66	Well, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have succeeded and can speak briefly here. I would like to comment on my amendment, in which I wanted to prevent the state budget for next year from being counted on 1 billion. koruna from state forests. According to available information, Forests of the Czech Republic is in operational loss. There is talk of a loan and in the next year it is expected that the barking calamity will reach an even larger extent than it was this year. And if the cancellation of the reserve funds and the withdrawal of the necessary funds from the company Forest of the Czech Republic in the past now proves to be a mistake, then continuing this trend would be an outright crime on the future of our country. I think the forest money is supposed to stay in the woods. I submitted the amendment with the fact that I was aware that it would be unvoting because, as it is submitted, it changed the approved parameters which were approved at first reading and thus amended the proposal for total expenditure and revenue. In a situation where the National Budget Board's Budget Committee, in its opinion of 28 August of this year, points out that the amount of revenue proposed may be overvalued, i.e. there is a real risk that revenue will not be met, I could not, for reasons of budgetary caution, propose another type of revenue to replace this cancelled 1 billion. from the woods. I made this proposal as a gesture. As a gesture specifically of disapproval. I disagree with total irresponsibleness, opposition to gambling with our country's future, disapproval that the sense of deprived marketing has become the only political agenda for this government. I understand that such a gesture will not fall on the fertile ground of a government that is indebting our country at a time of economic growth, which dissolves reserves, so that it can distort its economic results and that does not have the ambition to tackle key reforms. But I think it is important that the citizens of this country have at least the hope that there are politicians in the House who see beyond the next election. And finally, I'm going to lighten up a little bit. Now it is often said that this government is eating through our future. I don't see it that way. It reminds me of a situation where you fry a bunch of schnitzels the night before you leave, wake up in the morning, eat them all, and then you're so sick that you're not going anywhere anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u67	Thank you. And now I beg Mr Ferjenčík, who is duly entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am going to ask for the attention of the Minister and the rapporteur, because I wanted to propose an adjustment to the procedure, and I am not quite sure that it will go through... that it will be legislativeally correct, but I wanted to propose it at least. I am concerned about the amendment A1 where I would like us to vote separately from the rest of the amendment, which means an increase in the budget of the Castle by 16 million. It would have to be reduced accordingly... by the reduction in the government's budget reserve. So this is my procedural proposal. I will ask the rapporteur to take a position on this as to whether this is voteable. We are aware that those chapters under discussion by the Committee on Budgets, the process of their approval is a little different from the ministries, and for that reason they simply add to the salaries with some delay, and we need to do this by amending the proposal. However, since the Office of the President of the Republic has recently been under suspicion of a very inefficient treatment of taxpayers' money, particularly in connection with the case of constructions in the Langan Orb, we find it irresponsible to increase the Office of the President of the Republic's budget, let alone 16 million, even though we agree with the other items, I therefore propose separate voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u69	Thank you, too. I don't know if the rapporteur's gonna want to take a stand on this, or we'll figure it out when... Looks like we'll figure it out later. In that case, at this point, I do not have anyone registered either with a factual remark or with a debate. I'll look around the O.R. again, see if anyone's checking in, but it doesn't look like it. I'm finishing the discussion and asking if there's any interest in any final words. So please, the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u71	I would like to ask my colleagues to be patient and keep their voice down so that we can hear the final word properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u72	Thank you for the floor, thank you for the order, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening patiently all day since morning. I was taking notes. I'm not going to name anybody, maybe, in case I get caught up in any particular thought, I'm going to say something to everyone, I mean the idea of the previous speakers, so I'm going to address him directly. But I've been taking notes, and I'd like to comment on the fundamental things that have been said here. [[16.20 hours]] We have prepared a good budget, a budget that takes into account the priorities of this government. And when this country had bad budgets, Mr Kalousek, they are fortunately gone, and I will remind you of the years when we had 150 billion here. the deficit and we had the country's highest debt in history. I'm not going to focus on revenue, because even from the opposition, there was no questioning of income, an estimate of income. It would be said that it is based on a macroeconomic forecast, which has repeatedly been realistic, which is the highest assessment, which is described by the newly established Committee on Budgetary Forecasts. And, of course, on the basis of the macroeconomic forecast, an estimate of these revenues, a conservative estimate of revenue, was made. So I am not going to look at the revenue side, except to comment on the compound tax quota, as Mr Skopeček spoke of it. So one step at a time. I'll focus mainly on the expense page. There was a future-eating sound, there was buying voters, bribing voters, and other expressions. And I'm asking myself, isn't that more like paying off old debts? The one when pensions were reduced, the one where education was underfunded, as Mrs Valachová spoke about it here, when the salaries of public sector workers were applied. I remember it, and I remember the way it was touching the salaries of armed forces, and they remember it when they come to me with different demands and discussions, so they talk a lot about it. Let's ask ourselves, did we not threaten the country's safety? What are the priorities in this budget? And I'm going to ask you a question right now, or if we shouldn't have taken these priorities into account and if we were going to touch those amounts. Should we have touched the increase in pensions, shouldn't we have increased our pensions by CZK 918 on average? 570 kroner is the amount that everyone gets under the so-called solidarity participation in pensions. Yes? Should we have done it? Of course not. We should not have financed regional education reform, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies before the last parliamentary elections, the highest component of which is an amount greater than 22 billion. to teachers' salaries and to increase the number of teachers by 16,000? So we shouldn't have done that either? We shouldn't have given another seven or eight billion. to invest in education? We should not have increased public sector salaries by about 30 billion. and so that we didn't do it jumping this time, but did we basically raise it based on which groups of these components have the lowest salaries when we cut them off over five years ago, and we still haven't really caught up with the growth of the economy? Of course, we haven't even resigned to the area of investment. And that's where the numbers play is. From national sources, that is, we do not count European Union funds, we give almost 80 billion in investment. I say from national sources. And if we look honestly at the numbers, it's the most we've had in the last ten years. We have heard from President Kalousek that it is less than in crisis years. But he knows well as the former finance minister - he has done the job for more than six years, so he knows it very well, he has drawn up several state budgets, so he knows well that there is no comparison between the fact and the plan that we have to compare the plan for each year or the reality. And if we look at the year 2015, which was said here, but I can also name 2008 or 2009, because it also often sounds, I can basically see - and I have the graphs here, I have the numbers drawn from the Treasury - the amount of 175 billion. it was composed largely of European money, because in that period two programming periods overlapped and only 37 billion went from national sources. That means the money had to be collected, and actually the next programming period started. So that's the whole truth. We from national sources give almost 80 billion. investment and we are counting and forecasting, although European money is hard to estimate, a total amount of more than 122 billion. And the same situation was in 2008, 2009, when the programming periods overlapped. And I don't want to dissect here at all, I'm sticking to the subject of today's meeting, I don't want to dissect the fact that even the problematic regional operational programs at the time, ROPs, where a whole series of criminal reports fell. I'm basically putting that aside. When we talk about the old days, the shares of investment in GDP, yes, in 2009, capital expenditure had a share of 11.4 percent of GDP. But at what cost? In 2010, there was a macro 2.3 and there was a quadruple deficit than today, when we have a macro 3%. This budget is based on a macro of 3% and we have a deficit of 40 billion, which is 0.7 percent of GDP. At the time, it was 150 billion. by the macro 2.3. And I prefer to keep quiet about the measures that were taken at the time, because we all remember them, and a lot of us remember them well. And now for the next evaluation that fell. We don't have basically... At the time of the crisis, in the period we are talking about, the structural balance was minus 3,2 percent of GDP. I repeat, minus 3.2 percent of GDP. Today we have - and President Kalousek often uses the term structural balance, that is the balance adjusted from the influence of the economic cycle - we have more than plus 1% of GDP. Even this year it was 1.6, next year we're planning about 1%. And now for the essential information. Slovakia, Germany were compared here. Slovakia and Germany have worse public finances than the Czech Republic. This is the situation this year. [[It's showing a graph.]] The red dot is the penetration of state debt and public surplus, the surplus of public finances, virtually. Exactly, a surplus of public finances, which means finances as a whole - state budget, budgets of regions, cities and municipalities, public funds, public institutions. The state will collect taxes and redistribute them according to the RUD and according to other transfers, that is, secure revenue and as a whole we manage surplus. And let's not use cheap sentences like that here, who do better or worse. We all manage as best we can. And the Czech Republic will be third next year. It is better in place than Slovakia and Germany in the overall surplus of public finances. So please, let's use honest information and fair numbers. [[16.30 hours]] There is a clear reason that the Ministry of Finance has prepared and approved this government and submitted a deficit state budget to the Chamber of Deputies. The revenue is adjusted conservatively. The fact that no one inflates them - the Minister of Finance cannot afford to inflate revenue. And I'm sure Mr. Exministr Kalousek knows that very well. Since 1 January 2018, notabene has been guarded by an independent body of the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts. The Ministry of Finance was the one who initiated the formation of this committee, including the National Budget Board. We didn't have to do that. We don't have that legal obligation yet. Only euro area countries have this obligation. We did this because we wanted an independent consultation. We wanted someone, some authority to tell us how our numbers stand. And she repeatedly said they were realistic. So conservative income and, on the other hand, maximum spending. That's why we've been doing better than the plan for the past few years. This is not an expression of humility, humility and disrespect for this Chamber of Deputies. We have prepared a budget with maximum precision and maximum responsibility. This is the result of these conditions: conservative income, maximum expenditure. And, of course, a lot of unsubs are entering the money flow. Last year, we got caught up in double economic growth. This year, huge wage growth has taken us by surprise. And, of course, the biggest unknown is the flow of European money. We're not able to exactly influence this flow that's entering. That is why I say that this year's budget, which is planned, I think 2018, with a 50-billion-dollar deficit, so I believe that, of course, we are still waiting for complete European money, so I believe that we will get very close to zero. Expenditures are under attack, spending growth. There's no way we can compare absolute amounts. Why? Well, because of the rise in average wage, we're growing the valorisation formula for pensions, we're growing the mandatorial expenditures. And that's logical. So we're gonna cut our pensions? This is the largest amount of mandatorial expenditure, including other social expenditures. So there's no way to judge the absolute amounts. But what can be judged is the percentage relative to GDP. [[He's showing charts.]] And that's lower. We have a lower percentage of spending compared to the percentage of GDP. He's still quoted here, or repeatedly quoted, actually spending growth in government spending. I showed it here at first reading, I'm just going to repeat it to remind you of these facts. I did - because our government was the first to approach, it proceeded to reduce public administration positions. We reduced the so-called dead souls according to a certain pattern I explained. We've left only at 3 percent fluctuations. In the "empty seat" of 3 to 5 percent we tie the money up to the fill of this place and over 5 percent we crossed all the places off. So we've got $1,300 savings, which is equivalent to 3.4 billion. But you can't just divide it because, of course, the money that's going to come in gradually is going to be included. Of course, I intend to continue this effort. In January, I'm going to ask my government colleagues for more savings. And for myself and for this honourable Chamber of Deputies, I have made a comparison between 2013, which is so often enchanted, and in 2019: 47 percent of the increase are employees of the Labor Office, which is why, and I repeat, I said it here at first reading in October, because they have added an agenda that has left the hospital. [[shows the graph]] They simply began to carry out the agenda that they had taken over, and that is why there was such an increase, because again this agenda fell off to individual ammunition. When I decompose the individual locations of the year-on-year increase between 2019 and 2018, the number of public administration posts, this is an increase of exactly 16,000 teachers. [[shows the graph]] I asked you at first reading: do we need a teacher? You answered me out loud, especially from the left spectrum: we need it. This is related to ensuring regional education reform. That's basically what we inherited - our government. It was approved by the last Chamber of Deputies, and we agreed with the majority here, and it also sounded from the opposition that we simply have to secure regional education and reform, and that, of course, is not possible without money. I have a whole range of other graphs here, I have an evaluation of the Czech Republic, I have graphs of development, as individual debts actually developed, individual structural balances over the course of ten years, surpluses of public finances. But many of you remember. And just one last sentence. State debt is around 32,6 percent of GDP this year. Next year, we estimate it to be 30 percent of GDP. So in all these ways, we are doing well, and I dare call our public finances sound. To the compound tax quota. The tax quota lodged, for the listeners mentioned by Mr Skopeček, does not mean that taxes are growing. Because she's growing, that means we're better at collecting taxes. Both the last, the election government, and this government reduces taxes. And if we manage to move the amendment of the EET Act to further reading tomorrow, this amendment includes a very significant reduction in VAT, which presents a fall in income, which will remain in the pockets of payers; 3.4 billion. And we have a whole series of steps to reduce taxes in the tax package, which we will discuss on Friday at third reading. That's a compound tax quota that's growing. We collect better taxes, so we can afford to lower them. And the last sentence... [[From the post of Chairman Stanjura: That's the second one.]] The last second sentence - thank you, President Stanjur. This is definitely not the worst budget. The worst budgets this country has ever seen. And she's experienced the finance ministers who owe this country the most. I am sorry to say that the person who indebted this country most was former finance minister, current President Kalousek. And I certainly don't want to be the one to continue this trend. I want to go the other way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u73	Thank you, too. I will warn you that we are no longer in the debate, that this was the final word of the appellant, so unfortunately I cannot accept Mr Skopeček's factual opinion. I have been given priority rights, I presume, by President Kalousek, if he means to enter the final words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u74	Thank you for the floor. I really won't keep you long. Just a quick note. A lot of nice and partly convincing words have fallen from the Minister of Finance here, referring to our neighbors, both Germany and Slovakia and so on. Let me say the information that you can all find out in open sources. Germany has been drawing up a surplus budget for the third year. Slovakia, although growing slower than we are, is setting a balanced budget for next year. Only the Czech Republic, which is exceptionally successful, not thanks to this government, but thanks to the business activities of our economy, is drawing up a deficit budget. [[16.40 hours]] There's no rational explanation for that, Madam Secretary, except that you're doing the wrong thing. If you have another explanation, tell me. But tell me, why does Slovakia, which grows slower than we, draw up a balanced budget for next year? Because he knows there's a recession coming. While you're drawing up a budget deficit. Why does Germany, which you are still referring to, have been drawing up an surplus budget for the third year? Because he knows there's a recession coming. And why are you pulling this country into bigger and bigger debts, even though there is a recession coming? This is the only rhetorical question that can be asked, which can also be justified, why we cannot support a budget that is so irresponsible to the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u75	Thank you. As I do not register any other priority rights at the moment - President Michálek wants to speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u76	After all, my colleagues drew my attention to one more thing, namely that the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts assessed the matter twice. First, in August 2018, when he stated in his recommendation that the forecast that the Ministry had was judged optimistic. Subsequently, the correction took place and it was assessed once more in November. And he's already said she's realistic. However, there has been an adjustment to income. And according to the documents we looked at, in the revised forecast, the income of value added tax is CZK 6 billion lower. For corporate tax, CZK 7 billion lower. So I just wanted to make a brief addition, if the Minister could shed some light on this, with the fact that we would not be calling for any further debate so that we could finish this. Just this contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u77	Thank you. I will warn you that if the Minister comes forward, she will reopen the debate. So if she doesn't want to, in that case, I'm asking if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. He doesn't. So let's move on to the vote. First of all, we will vote on the proposed voting procedure on this proposal. I ask the rapporteur to brief us on the procedure. And I'll ask for peace in the hall! We're going to discuss fundamental things that would be good for us to know what's going on and what's going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u78	Yes, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I have already proposed the voting procedure at the outset. Several comments were made during the debate, which I do not have a problem with. So if you don't mind, I'm gonna try to do it all over again, including the comments that have been made, and then I'm gonna ask you to agree to the proposed procedure. At the outset, I remind you that I will not be the rapporteur, if you agree to this, to give opinions, because the guarantee committee of the budget did not discuss this. Therefore, I would only say my position, which I do not think is entirely appropriate. So I would repeat what I did last time that I didn't say the rapporteur's position. I propose the following procedure. It was said here by Mr Stanjura that the A1, which we would start with, which is the text given in the budget committee resolution, Annex 1, which is the creation of a new chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency, is unvoteable because it is contrary to legislation - if I simplify it. The proposal was based on the fact that, even in recent periods, this has been the case for the chapter of the National Budget Board, where the legislative process has not been completed, and yet we have set up this chapter with the zero that is there, which means that the very establishment of this chapter does not affect the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. But, of course, I accept Mr Stanjura's proposal, so I would let the first vote be decided by the House on whether A1 is voteable. If the Chamber of Deputies had decided that it was voteable, then we would have taken a vote on this point A1. Furthermore, we would continue with point A2, which is the amendment in the text section of the Committee on Budgets and concerns the amendment in Annex 6 and 8 of the Act, which are the registers. Then we would continue with the amendments to Annex 2a figures contained in the budget committee resolution, namely that we would vote separately on the request of Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Ferjenčík's colleague, the Office of the President of the Republic. Then we'd vote for the rest of the chapters. We would continue with A2, A3, A4 on a single basis, with the approval of point A4, then the unvoting point B53, because it is completely identical. It's identical. If A4 was not voted, we would vote B53. Fourthly, we would vote on the amendments to Annex 2b, presented at second reading, with the fact that we would first deal with point B82, which is unvoteable because it changes the parameters approved at first reading. But that must also be decided by the Chamber of Deputies. We would also vote on points B1 to B13 individually. After B13 we would vote in B76, as my colleague Juránek requested. Then we would continue points B14 to B98 with the exception of point B24, which is unvoting because it lacks item specifications. When we deal with these amendments, then we would vote on the resolution on the state budget as a whole. In the event that this resolution is adopted, we would vote on accompanying resolutions, namely individually. This means that the first part of us would follow the press 287/4, which you all had on the bench today, and the accompanying resolutions would be voted by the press 287/5. So much for the voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u79	Thank you. I think it was understandable. I hope everyone caught it. I'll ask... it doesn't look like there's any comment on the procedure. Then I'll have her approved. So I'm gonna start the vote. We are voting on the approval of this procedure. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 134, 193 Members and Members were registered, for 190, against no one. The draft procedure has been accepted. Mr. Bartošek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u80	Thank you. Just a quick note. I would like to inform you that before the final vote on the state budget, I would like to ask for a 20-minute break in the club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u81	Thank you. I'll make a note of it. I think, rapporteur, we can proceed with the approved procedure. So first, it should be the voteability of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u82	Yes, Mr. Vice-President. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that we will start voting under the press 287/4 and we should decide on the voting or non-voting of point A1 of the amendment in the text section set out in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets Annex 1, the creation of a new Chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency. I think we should vote on the counter-proposal that has been made here by fellow Member Stanjura, which means that this point is unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u83	Yes, it is. Just in case, if we approve this as unvoteable, then we'll move on to design A2. If we approve this as voteable, then we will vote if we agree to it. So I'm opening the vote. Those who agree to vote... [[Inconvenient noise in the hall.]] Those who agree to non-voting. Please, who's in favour of non-voting? Who's against unvoicing? Thank you. In the vote number 135, 194 Members and Members were enrolled, in favour of non-voting 84, against non-voting 60. The motion was not accepted. [[Noise in the hall.]] Is there a check-out request or a device that didn't work? [[The rapporteur wants to speak, but she does not get to speak.]] If anyone has any objections, please bring them to the microphone, or I'll register the check-out request and I'll check you all out. Please. And it doesn't look like anyone's going to object to the microphone, so please, let's continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u84	Yes. This House of Deputies has decided that it considers A1 to be voteable, so we should decide on Amendment A1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u85	Thank you. Madam Secretary's opinion, please. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 136, 194 Members were enrolled, for 117, against 54, with 23 abstentions. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u86	Yes. Now we would vote on A2, an amendment to the text section of the Committee on Budgets, amendments to Annex No. 6 and 8 of the law relating to the register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u87	Thank you. Minister's opinion, please. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 137, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 194, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u88	We would now vote on the amendments, the figures contained in Annex 2A in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, by voting first on Amendment A1, part of the Office of the President of the Republic. I will just specify that this is an increase in staff salaries by 6 percent and an increase in salaries by 500 CZK per employee, which is a recommendation for increasing tariffs so that we know what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u89	Yes. So we're going to vote on this special item first. Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking... Sorry. [[Objection from the diaper.]] I'm ending the vote as misguided. (Vote number 138.) Madam Secretary's opinion, please. [[Agreed.]] Okay. So I'm opening a new vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 139, 195 Members and Members are enrolled, for 133, against 53. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u90	Yes. Furthermore, we would vote on the remainder under A1, which concerns the chapters of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, the Senate of Parliament, the Ombudsman's Office, the Constitutional Court, the National Budget Board, the Supreme Audit Office. It's the same thing, it's an increase in civil servants' salaries by 6 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u91	Thank you. Madam Secretary's opinion, please. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 140 vote, for 171, against 24. The motion was accepted. Before I ask for another proposal, Mr Radim Fiala's note is here today between 5:00 and 6:00 p.m. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u92	We will now vote on Amendment A2 to the Budget Committee, which is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the financing item for the programme Development and reconstruction of the material technical basis of social services, and in the same chapter the reduction of the benefit of state social support and foster care, an amount of 327 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u93	Thank you. President Kalousek with technical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u94	I am so sorry to the rapporteur. But she said it was an increase in the Ministry of Labour chapter. He's not. This is a transfer under the chapter and a transfer under the mandatory expenditure, which will either be issued or not, without our will, i.e. by law, to the item of optional expenses that will be issued if we agree. This is totally unfair. From my point of view, an almost unvoting proposal. You can vote for it, of course, but it's not an increase. It's a transfer from mandatorial expenses to optional expenses. From where I'm standing, it's just a scam. Unvoted fraud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u95	Mr President, I would like you to give these proposals of non-voting earlier, and I do not know whether to deal with it now as an objection or to have it voted. [[From the diaper, it's called "Leave."]] Let's put it to a vote. Okay. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u96	I've read it here, so now the Minister's position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u97	Thank you. Let's start voting number 141. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 141, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 185, against 6. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u98	Another amendment is point A3, which is the increase of the General Treasury administration to the item of the event financed by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and the Government of the Czech Republic. The funds are intended for municipalities to finance the removal of emergency situations, repairs, reconstructions, construction of new capacities of primary and kindergarten buildings, including facilities owned by municipalities, as well as repairs and reconstruction of buildings owned by the municipality, which serve or will serve for rental housing of citizens or for the acquisition of rental apartments, and it is a total of 600 million. CZK, and it is an increase in VPS and reduction is on the side of the Ministry for Regional Development and the Ministry of Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u99	Thank you. Minister's opinion, please. [[Agreed.]] So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 142, 195 Members and Members signed up, for 171, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you. More suggestions, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u100	Another proposal is A4, which is a reduction in the chapter of the Office of the Government by an amount of 5 million. CZK, expenditure related to the activities of advisory bodies of the government, and an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, a contribution to the employment of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u101	Thank you. Minister's opinion, please. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 143, 195 Members and Members are invited to vote, for 167, against 12. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u102	Thank you. I'm just reminding you that by accepting the A4, it's unvoting B53 because it's identical, so we're not voting for it anymore. Now we move on to the amendments to the figure, Annex 2B, presented at second reading. Firstly, we have I. in income Amendment B82, which concerns the Ministry of Agriculture, namely a reduction of 1 billion. Crowns. This amendment is unvoteable because it changes the parameters approved at first reading and concerns the correlation reduction in expenditure of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture in the expenditure section. So for this reason, it's unvoting unless there's an objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u103	I didn't notice any objection. We've approved his non-voiceability as part of the procedure, so I think we can move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u104	In that case, we will vote on the amendment under letter B1 by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. It's an increase in the Ministry of the Interior chapter by 30 miles. for the planned purchase of ballistic protection of police officers, 70 miles. for the acquisition of long-term tangible assets, for the construction and construction of new fire stations. It's on account of a reduction in the Ministry of Environment chapter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u105	Mr. Feri. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u106	All I can do is vote. I'm on a high note that I voted in favour, but I voted against it. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u107	Thank you. I ask the Minister's opinion on this proposal. [[B1 - I agree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 144, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 152, against 21. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u108	The next proposal is under the letter B2 by my colleague Pavla Golasowská. I wanted to make a deal, colleagues, if there were no reservations that I wouldn't read the long texts, because you all have it in writing. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay,]] So I would always say the number of the amendment and the petitioner, so that we know what we are voting on if there is a consensus. [[Yes.]] So I repeat, we should now vote on the letter B2 by my colleague Pavla Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u109	Thank you. Minister's opinion, please. [[B2 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 145, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against 82. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u110	We will now also vote on Amendment B3 by Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u111	Minister's opinion, please. [[B3 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 146, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 69, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u112	The next amendment is under letter B4, once again Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u113	Thank you. Minister's opinion, please. [[B4 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 147, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 45, against 81. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u114	The next proposal is the B5 by colleague Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u115	Thank you. Minister's opinion, please. [[B5 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 148, 195 Members and Members are registered for 45, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u116	The next proposal is Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mrs B6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u117	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B6 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 149, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 67, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u118	Furthermore, Amendment B7 by Members Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan, Petr Pávek and Jana Krutáková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u119	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Minister: B7 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 150, 195 Members and Members shall be registered, for 85, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u120	Another proposal is B8 again by colleagues Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan, Petr Pávek and Jana Krutáková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u121	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Minister: B8 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 151, 195 Members and Members shall be registered, for 84, against 79. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u122	Another proposal is B9 variant of 1 colleagues Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan, Petr Pávek and Jana Krutáková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u123	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B9 variant 1 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 152, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 76, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u124	The next design is B9 variant 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u125	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B9 variant 2 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 153, 195 Members and Members shall be elected, for 85, against 86. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u126	The next proposal is B10 by Mrs Kovářová and Jana Krutáková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u127	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B10 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, order number 154, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 89, against 83. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u128	The next proposal is B11 by Mrs Věra Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u129	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[B11 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members registered in the 155 series vote, for 69, against 72. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u130	The next proposal is Amendment B12 variant 1 by Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mikuláš Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u131	Chairman Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u132	I'm very sorry. I won't do it again during this vote, but after this vote, I have to do it. I wanted to tell the Chamber of Deputies that right now she refused to add 3 million crowns to the Jan Palach Museum. [[Dissenting voices.]] I stress that CZK 3 million is the amount behind the decimal point of discernment of the Minister of Finance. You just turned that down! [[Protests in the hall.]] It's just that the amendment is now described like this. If that's not the case, I'll be happy to explain it. But you just refused to add the 3 million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u133	The Minister of Culture is claiming priority rights. Well, maybe he can shed some light on it. [[Reactions in the hall that the vote cannot be taken.]] However, I must point out that in this case we would open up a debate. The Minister is withdrawing. Okay. Please, let's continue. Where were we?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u134	Yes, thank you. Only apparently my colleague Kalousek was not here, so I would like to say from the rapporteur's position that the Chamber of Deputies and colleagues, colleagues have been informed that this matter will be resolved in the context of the chapter of the Ministry of Culture. So the money will be released there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u135	Mr. Chairman is reporting again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u136	Thank you. Or not. He made a public promise here that it would not snow on December 16th. And it snowed. So here's a public promise that maybe it'll be settled...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u137	Quiet in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u138	Here was a public promise that it would be settled in the context of executives. Maybe, maybe not. Why should I believe that as a member of Parliament? At this point, the Chamber of Deputies decides whether or not the funds will go. And you decided they wouldn't go. And that is what I accuse you of, and I consider it evil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u139	Thank you. Now we can get back to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u140	Yes. Let's get back to the vote. We are with Amendment B12 variant 1 by colleague Věra Kovářová, Mikuláš Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u141	Thank you. Madam Secretary's opinion, please. [[B12 variant 1 - I disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, order number 156, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 68, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u142	The next design is B12 variant 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u143	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Minister: B12 variant 2 - I disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 157, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 69, against 107. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u144	Another amendment is B13 colleagues Věra Kovářová, Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan, Petr Gazdík, Jana Krutáková and Petr Pávek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u145	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Minister: B13 - I disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, order number 158, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 48, against 104. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u146	We would now vote on Amendment B76, to which Jan Bartošek applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u147	Yes. Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Minister: B76 - I disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 159, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 82, against 73. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u148	Furthermore, we will continue with Amendment B14 by Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan, Petr Pávek and Jana Krutáková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u149	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Minister: B14 - I disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote of order number 160 195 Members and Members of Parliament, for 86, against 76. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u150	The next proposal is Mr. Martin Baxa's B15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u151	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B15 - I disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, serial number 161 is 195 Members and Members, for 86, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u152	There is also amendment B16 by colleagues Zdeněk Podal, Karla Maříková, Miloslav Rozner, Jaroslav Holík, Jiří Kobza, Radek Holomčík, Jiří Kohoutek and Radek Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u153	Thank you. I'm asking for an opinion. [[Minister: B16 - I disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, serial number 162 is 194 Members and Members, for 57, against 114. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u154	We also have Amendment B17, with several options. So B17 variant 1 of my colleague Vít Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u155	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Minister: B17 variant 1 I disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, serial number 163 is 195 Members and Members, for 84, against 70. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u156	B17 variant 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u157	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B17 variant 2 - I disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, order number 164, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 68, against 72. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u158	The next design is B17 variant 3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u159	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B17 variant 3 - I disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 165, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 68, against 78. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u160	The next design is B17 variant 4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u161	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Minister: B17 variant 4 - I disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote, serial number 166, 195 Members and Members shall be registered, for 87, against 75. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u162	The next design is B17 variant 5.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u163	Excuse me? [[Minister: B17 variant 5 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 167, 195 Members and Members are enrolled, for 68, against 72. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u164	The next proposal is B18 by colleague Vít Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u165	Thank you. Excuse me? [[Minister: B18 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 168 vote, for 47, against 77. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u166	Now we have amendments under B19, we have several variants again from our colleague Vít Kaňkovský, so B19 variant 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u167	Okay. Excuse me? [[Minister: B19 variant 1 - I disagree.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 169 vote, for 66, against 89. The motion was denied. Another option, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u168	Another variant is B19 variant 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u169	Excuse me? [[Minister: B19 variant 2 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 170, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 88, against 69. The motion was not accepted. Another option, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u170	Another variant is B19 variant 3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u171	Excuse me? [[Minister: B19 variant 3 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 171, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 85, against 70. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u172	Amendment B20 by colleagues Jiří Kobza and other members of the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u173	Excuse me? [[Minister: B20 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 172 195 Members and Members are registered, for 37, against 130. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u174	The next proposal is B21 by Jiří Kobza and other members of the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u175	Excuse me? [[Minister: B21 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 173, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 40, against 110. The motion was denied. Before I go on, I'm gonna ask the secretary if there's any suggestion where you're okay with us saving time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u176	I think, Mr President, I apologise for jumping in and taking your word for it, but I think we should proceed on a single basis because this is how the procedure was approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u177	I'm not saying that we're not going to continue on a single basis. Okay. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u178	The next proposal is B22 by my colleague Radovan Vích.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u179	Excuse me? [[Minister: B22 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 174, 195 Members and Members are enrolled, for 29, against 129. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u180	The next proposal is the B23 of Mr Dominik Feri's colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u181	Excuse me? [[Minister: B23 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 175 vote, for 68, against 115. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u182	The next proposal B24 is unvoting, so we are at the proposal of Mr Dominik Feri, Mr B25.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u183	Thank you. Excuse me? [[Minister: B25 - I disagree.]] Yes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 176, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 48, against 108. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u184	The next proposal is a B26 colleague Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u185	Thank you. Excuse me? [[Minister: B26 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 177 vote, for 54, against 116. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u186	The next proposal is the B27 colleague František Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u187	Thank you. Excuse me? [[Minister: B27 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members registered in the 178 vote, for 35, against 104. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u188	The next proposal is B28 by Jakub Janda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u189	Excuse me? [[Minister: B28 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members registered in the 179 vote, for 53, against 101. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u190	The next proposal is also B29 by Jakub Janda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u191	Thank you. Excuse me? [[Minister: B29 - I disagree.]] Yes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 180 vote, for 50, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u192	The next proposal is Mr Stanislav Blaha's B30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u193	Thank you. Excuse me? [[Minister: B30 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 181, 194 Members and Members are registered, for 37, against 88. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u194	The next proposal is Mr B31 once again Mr Stanislav Blaha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u195	Thank you. Excuse me? [[Minister: B31 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 182, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 83, against 78. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u196	The next proposal is B32, once again Mr Stanislav Blaha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u197	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B32 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 183, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against 75. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u198	The next proposal is Mr B33 Mr Jan Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u199	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B33 - I disagree]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 184, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 54, against 107. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u200	Another proposal by Mr B34 Mr Jan Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u201	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B34 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 185 vote, for 55, against 90. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u202	The next proposal is Mr B35, Mr Jan Zahradník, together with Mr Vojtěch Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u203	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B35 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 186, 195 Members and Members are registered, for 48, against 102. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u204	The next proposal is Mrs Markéta Adamová's B36.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u205	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B36 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 187 vote, 195 Members and Members are enrolled, for 67, against 87. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u206	The next proposal is Mrs Markéta Adamová's B37.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u207	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B37 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 188 vote, for 35, against 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u208	The next proposal is B38 by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u209	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B38 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 189 vote, for 74, against 111. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u210	The next proposal is Mr B39 of Mr Jiří Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u211	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B39 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 190 vote, for 76, against 86. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u212	The next proposal is the B40 of Jiří Mihola's colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u213	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B40 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 191, 195 Members and Members are enrolled, for 61, against 76. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u214	The next proposal is the B41 of Mr František Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u215	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B41 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 192 vote, 195 Members and Members are enrolled, for 83, against 73. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u216	The next proposal is B42. It's optional again. So variant 1 of Mr. František Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u217	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B42 variant 1 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 193 vote, for 10, against 108. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u218	Next is B42 variant 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u219	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B42 variant 2 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 194 vote, for 11, against 106. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u220	The next proposal is the 43 by Mrs Helena Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u221	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B43 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 195 vote, for 42, against 115. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u222	The next proposal is B44. It was presented by Pavel Žáček and thus applied to the amendment by Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Jakub Janda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u223	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B44 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members registered in the 196 vote, for 67, against 80. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u224	The next proposal is B45. Again, Pavel Žáček, signed up for the amendments by Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Jakub Janda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u225	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B45 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members registered in the 197 vote, for 25, against 122. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u226	The next proposal is B46. Again, Pavel Žáček, joined Jana Černochová and Jakub Janda's amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u227	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B46 - I disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 195 Members and Members in the 198 vote, for 39, against 103. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please. There's a check-out request. I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards again. I would like to use this opportunity to hand over the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u228	Good afternoon. We're going to continue, and I think it's order number B47.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u229	Yes, B47. The petitioner, Mr Ivan Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u230	Opinion? [[Minister: B47 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 199, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 199 out of 193 present for 86, against 81. The motion was not accepted. We can move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u231	Another amendment B48 by Mr Petr Gazdík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u232	Yes. Madam Secretary? [[B48 - I disagree.]] Yes. I've started voting number 200, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 200 of the present 194 for 93, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u233	The next proposal is B49. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has applied to the amendment by Mrs Miroslava Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u234	Opinion? [[Minister: B49 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 201, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 201 of the present 194 for 86, against 95. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u235	Next - Amendment B50 to Mr Lukáš Bartoň.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u236	Opinion, Madam Secretary? [[Minister: B50 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 202 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 202 of the present 194 for 30, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u237	Another proposal by Mr B51 to Mr Lukáš Bartoň.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u238	Opinion? [[Minister: B51 - I disagree.]] Yes. I've started voting number 203 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 203 of the presence 197 for 27, against 84. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u239	The next proposal is Mr B52 Mr Jan Hrnčíř.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u240	Opinion? [[Minister: B52 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 204 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 204 of the present 194 for 40, against 105. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u241	B53 is unvoting because we voted the same in the budget committee resolution. So we will vote on Amendment B54 by Mr Lubomír Španěl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u242	Opinion? [[Secretary? B54 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 205, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 205 of the present 194 for 87, against 84. This proposal has not been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u243	The next proposal is B55 Members of Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Věra Kovářová, Zbyněk Stanjura, Radek Rozvoral, Marek Výborný and Vlastimil Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u244	Opinion? [[Minister: B55 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 206, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order 206 of the present 194 for 87, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u245	Another proposal by B56 Members of Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Věra Kovářová, Zbyněk Stanjura, Radek Rozvoral, Marek Výborný and Vlastimil Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u246	Opinion? [[Minister: B56 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 207, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 207 of the present 194 for 86, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u247	The next proposal is B57 by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u248	Opinion? [[Minister: B57 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 208, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 208 of 195 present for 56, against 113. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u249	The next proposal is the B58 submitted by the Pirates' MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u250	Opinion? [[Minister: B58 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 209, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 209 of the present 195 for 23, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u251	Another proposal by Jana Krutáková, Mrs B59.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u252	Opinion? [[Minister: I disagree with B59.]] I've started voting 210, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 210 of the present 194 for 57, against 85. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u253	The next proposal is the B60 of Jana Krutáková. The amendment was supported by Mr Baxa and Mr Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u254	Opinion? [[Minister: B60 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 211, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 211 out of 195 present for 67, against 84. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u255	The next proposal is Mr B61 Mr Jan Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u256	Opinion? [[Minister: B61 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 212, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 212 out of 195 present for 45, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u257	The next proposal is B62 by colleague Jan Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u258	Opinion? [[Minister: B62 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 213 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 213 out of 195 present for 64, against 84. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u259	Another amendment - Another amendment is B63. [[- I'm asking for peace!]] He's back in variants. So variant 1 - the translator Vlastimil Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u260	Opinion? [[Minister: B63 variant 1 - I disagree.]] I've started voting number 214, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 214 of the present 195 for 65, against 102. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u261	The next design is B63 variant 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u262	Please, Madam Secretary. [[B63 variant - disagreement.]] I started voting number 215. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 215 out of 195 present for 69, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u263	The next proposal is Mr B64 Vlastimil Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u264	Opinion? [[Minister: B64 - dissent.]] Thank you. I've begun voting number 216. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 216 out of 195 present for 63, against 94. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u265	The next proposal is B65 by Mr Jan Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u266	Opinion? [[Minister: B65 - dissent.]] I've started voting 217, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote 217 out of 195 present 45 pros, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u267	The next proposal is Mr B66 Mr Jan Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u268	Opinion? [[Minister: B66 - dissent.]] I've started voting number 218. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 218 of the 195 registered for 24, against 111. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u269	The next proposal is B67 Jan Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u270	Opinion? [[Minister: B67 - disagree.]] I started voting number 219. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 219 out of 195 present for 24, against 112. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u271	The next proposal is B68 by colleague Jan Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u272	Opinion? [[Minister: B68 - disagree.]] I've started voting number 220, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 220 of the present 195 for 25, against 113. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u273	The next proposal is Mr B69 Mr Jan Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u274	Madam Secretary? [[Minister: B69 - disapproval.]] I started voting number 221. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 221 of the 196 present for 55, against 103. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u275	The next proposal is Mrs Lenka Kozlová's B70.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u276	Opinion? [[Minister: B70 - disagree.]] I've started voting number 222 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 222 out of 196 present for 43, against 93. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u277	The next proposal is Mrs Lenka Kozlová's B72.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u278	Opinion? [[Minister: B72 - disapproval.]] I've started voting number 223 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 223 of the 196 present for 48, against 96. The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u279	Fellow Members, I am sorry, but I have skipped Amendment B71 by Mrs Lenka Kozlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u280	So let's get back to him. B71. Opinion, Madam Secretary? [[B71 - disagree.]] Yes. I've started voting 224, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 224 of 196 in favour of 49, against 101 Members. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u281	The next proposal is Mrs Lenka Kozlová's B73.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u282	Opinion? [[Minister: B73 - dissent.]] I've started voting number 225 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 225 out of 196 present for 42, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u283	The next proposal is B74 Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u284	Opinion? [[B74 - disagree.]] I've started voting number 226 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 226 out of 195 present for 55, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u285	The next proposal is Mr B75 Mr Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u286	Opinion? [[Minister: B75 - disagree.]] I've started voting number 227 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 227 from 195 present for 51 Member, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u287	We have already voted on B76, so we will now vote on B77 by Mr Petr Dolínek and Mrs Jana Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u288	Opinion? [[Minister: B77 - disagree.]] I started voting number 228. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 228 out of 194 present for 49, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u289	The next proposal is the proposal by B78 Members Martin Kupka, Jan Skopeček, Vojtěch Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u290	Opinion? [[Minister: B78 - disagree.]] I've started voting number 229 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 229 of 195 for 87, against 81 Members. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u291	The next proposal is Mr B79 Mr Jan Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u292	Opinion? [[Minister: B79 - disagree.]] I've started voting number 230 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 230 of 196 present for 56, against 94. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u293	The next proposal is 80 b Mrs Olga Richterová, Mr Lukáš Kolařík and Mr Ondřej Profant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u294	Opinion? [[Minister: B80 - disagree.]] I've started voting number 231 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 231 of 196 present for 29 against 94. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u295	The next proposal is Mrs Olga Richterová's 81.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u296	Opinion? [[Minister: B81 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with serial number 232 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 232 of 196 present for 68, against 70. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u297	The B82 proposal is unvoting, so Mrs B83 to Mrs Kateřina Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u298	Opinion? [[Minister: B83 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with order number 233. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 233 of 195 present for 53, against 69. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u299	Another proposal B84, Mrs Kateřina Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u300	Opinion? [[Minister: B84 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with serial number 234 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 234 of 195 present for 46, against 70. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u301	The next proposal was Amendment B85 by Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u302	Opinion? [[Minister: B85 - I agree.]] I've started the vote with serial number 235, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 235 of the present 195 for 155, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u303	The next proposal is Mr Jaroslav Holík's B86.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u304	Opinion? [[Minister: B86 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with serial number 236, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 236 of 196 present for 77, against 76. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u305	The next proposal is the B87 of the ODS MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u306	Opinion? [[Minister: B87 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote on order 237, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 237 of the 196 Members present for 32 Members, against 90. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u307	The next proposal is the B88 of the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u308	Opinion? [[Minister: B88 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote on serial number 238 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 238 of the 196 present for 26, against 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u309	The next proposal is the B89 of the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u310	Opinion? [[Minister: B89 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with order number 239 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 239 of 196 present for 46, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u311	Another proposal, B90 of the ODS MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u312	Opinion? [[Minister: B90 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote on order number 240 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 240 of 195 present for 22, against 87. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u313	Another proposal, B91 of the ODS MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u314	Opinion? [[Minister: B91 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with serial number 241, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 241 of the 196 present for 49, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u315	Next proposal, B92 of the ODS MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u316	I would ask for peace so that stenographers can record both opinions and results correctly. Thank you. I've started the vote with serial number 242 and I'm asking who's in favour. [[Newsletter Vostra: Still an opinion.]] Opinion, I'm sorry. [[Minister: B92 - I disagree.]] Yes. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 242 of 195 present for 23, against 97. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u317	A further proposal from B93 is submitted by the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u318	Opinion? [[Minister: B93 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with order number 243, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 243 of 195 present for 37, against 94. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u319	The next proposal is B94, submitted by ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u320	Opinion, Madam Secretary? [[Minister: B94 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote on order 244 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 244 of 196 present for 24, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u321	The next proposal is B95, submitted by ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u322	Opinion, please. [[Minister: B95 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with serial number 245, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 245 of 196 present for 34, against 87. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u323	The next proposal is the B96 of the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u324	Opinion? [[Minister: B96 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote with serial number 246 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 246 of the 196 present for 23, against 106. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u325	The next proposal is the B97 of the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u326	Opinion? [[Minister: B97 - I disagree.]] I've started the vote on order 247, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 247 of 196 present for 49, against 90. The motion was not accepted. Let's make another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u327	I think we have dealt with all the amendments. [[Disagree from the diaper.]] I'm sorry if I missed him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u328	B98.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u329	Yes, 98, so Amendment 98 to the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u330	Madam Secretary's position? [[B98 - I disagree.]] I've started voting 248. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 248 of the present 195 for 24, against 98. The motion was not accepted. I ask if we have exhausted all the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u331	I think we have already exhausted all the amendments, and now we should vote on the resolution on the law as a whole. But there's been an announcement of a break from the MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u332	I've noticed. Thus, given that we have voted on all the amendments and no one is claiming that his proposal is not being voted on, in which case I am in agreement with the KDU-ČSL's requests. A 20-minute break is enough? Thank you. I'm declaring a break until 6:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. I have an announcement from my colleague Peksa to comment on the vote. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u334	Good evening. I don't want to take too long, I just want to say that I voted against the 237 vote, but I have a pro on high. I am not going to question the vote, just so that this is recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u335	Okay, he'll be in the Steno Protocol. And we're good to go. The break for the club meeting ended before the final vote. I'm asking if anyone... Yes, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek. I'm not gonna give you my word yet, Mr. Chairman. Wait a minute until it's quiet. You can, of course, wait at the table. [[The House is getting a little quieter.]] Well, I hope he can hear you right now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u336	Thank you. Allow me to sum up the previous negotiations. As the conditions which KDU-ČSL said were necessary to support the state budget were not fulfilled, KDU-ČSL would not support the state budget for 2019. This is because this budget discriminates against families and disabled people, discriminates against people in social services and does not appreciate their work. Teachers in private and church schools make second-class teachers and do not contribute to their salaries so that they are equal as teachers in public schools. Since this budget is not properly remembered by firefighters or policemen, we are unable to support this budget. So much for KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u337	Thank you. Now Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u338	Thank you for the floor. Don't worry, I won't hold up. Mr President, Mr Government, Mrs and gentlemen, the KSČM parliamentary club considers that the conditions for voting in favour of the state budget for 2019 have been met by voting on amendments. Unlike the previous speaker, we think that those conditions that are in the area of social services and other areas are adequately met as much as the current state of state finance allows, without being subject to any unnecessary revelry or futility. It is precisely the situation where the state budget is the art of the possible. And in those areas that we were interested in, the art of the possible was fulfilled. This is why KSČM will support the state budget for 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u339	Thank you to the head of the club KSČM. Anyone else? Chairman Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u340	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we have announced that if our, say, austerity package is not taken into account, which in some way solves the fact that the budget is significantly deficitd, and our partial amendments, we will not be able to support this budget. We have tabled 13 amendments to support non-state schools, school construction, ensuring the functioning of youth organisations, but also digitalisation and other amendments, but these have not been adopted as amendments. So for the Pirates' MP - we will not support the draft budget for this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u341	I thank Mr Ivan Bartoš. President Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u342	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, for the SPD very briefly. Our amendments to the budget have not been accepted, we cannot also identify with the deficit that this budget has, and therefore we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u343	Thank you. Another representative - the STAN movement. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u344	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It'll be easy. Even our six votes won't get this budget. We have tried to adjust it so that it is consistent not only with our beliefs, but with those verbally declared aims of the government, such as promoting education and pro-growth policies. Unfortunately, you failed, so even the possibility of us supporting the budget is not here right now. It is simply not a good budget for the Czech Republic and does not think about the future, it only thinks about having high preferences in the next few days, and that is not enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u345	Thank you, Mr Farský. And if no one is reporting, we will proceed to the final vote. Allow me to make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 and with the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019, according to the House press 287, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, according to Annexes 1 and 2 to this resolution." We're going to decide in the 249 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 249, from 196 in favour of 108, against 88. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[A round of applause for members of YES and CSSD, applause for the government bench. Minister Schiller shakes hands with the Prime Minister and kisses the rapporteur Vostra.]] There. And I will now ask the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, to make proposals for accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u346	Accompanying resolutions will be voted on by the press, which you also have on the bench, 287/5, by proposing that we vote on them individually. We would start with the letter A, which is the budget committee resolution, and we would continue with the letter B, i.e. motions for resolutions resulting from the second reading debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u347	Yes. First motion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u348	So under letter A from the budget committee resolution: The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the government that: (a) take into account the specific status of the staff of the National Labour Security Office and maintain an increase in salaries for that employer during the future period; (b) take into account the specific position of the members of the Labour Market Security Information Service and maintain adequate wage growth in that service for further periods - after 2019; (c) take into account the specific status of members of the General Inspection of the Security Councils on the labour market and maintain appropriate wage increases in this inspection for the following period - after 2019; (d) take into account the specifics of the occupations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' staff and its constituent parts in the labour market and ensure an adequate increase in salaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u349	Okay. We will decide on this accompanying resolution under letter A in the vote number 250, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 250 of the 196 in attendance for 191 Members, no one opposed it. The resolution has been approved. Second resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u350	The next resolution is under letter B from the second reading debate, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, namely: The Chamber of Deputies supports the government, in the development of a user-friendly system that allows the publication of revenue and expenditure of the state budget on the Internet, in the format of open data. The aim of the development of this so-called in addition to the required breakdown under the budget composition decree, the clicking budget should be displayed up to the level of each specific expenditure of the State budget, including the identification of the beneficiary, except for those whose publication is prohibited by the special regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u351	Okay. We will decide on the proposal in the voting order number 251, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 251 of the present 194 for 88, against 73. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go. Next draft under letter B.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u352	The next proposal is Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Chamber of Deputies I. Supports the increase in the expenditure of the Chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in order to account for at least 5% of GDP by 2025 at the latest. Raising the chapter to use priority for predictable and transparent financing of regional education as well as public universities. Reform of regional education funding in order to ensure the stability of the education system and to improve the quality of education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u353	Individually? Yeah, okay. It is Mrs Kateřina Valachová's proposal under point I. I've started the vote with order number 252 and I'm asking who's in favour. Sorry. I'm sorry, I'm voting order number 252 for confusion. I'm signing you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has been settled, we will decide item I in the voting order number 253, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 253 out of 194 registered 167 in favour, against 8. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u354	Another suggestion. II. Recommends to the Government of the Czech Republic to increase the salaries of teachers by at least 15 per cent year on year and other staff in education by at least 10 per cent for the average salary of teachers and other staff in education by at least 150 per cent for 2017 at the latest in 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u355	Okay. We will decide in the vote the order number 254 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 254 of 195 present for 73, against 51 Member. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u356	III. Recommends to the Government of the Czech Republic to unite from 2020 state investment programmes aimed at developing regional education infrastructure budgeted in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and 398 of the General Treasury Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u357	We will decide in the vote the order number 255 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 255 of the 196 present for 52, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u358	IV. Recommends the Czech Government to take account of the above mentioned objectives and recommendations in the expenditure frameworks and in the budgetary strategy of the public institutions sector, which will be approved by 30 April 2019, and to project them in the medium term of the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u359	We will decide in the vote the serial number 256, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 256 of the 196 present for 43, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We have here the last draft accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u360	The final proposal is to Mr Pavel Kováčik. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to increase the budget expenditure of the Ministry of Agriculture by 1 billion. CZK for preferential use in the purchase of shares of water supply companies and sewerage into the property of municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-010-114.u361	Okay. We will decide in the vote order number 257, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 257 from 195 present for 161 Member, against 3. This proposal was adopted. Thank you. This has exhausted the accompanying resolutions. Madam rapporteur, I believe we have exhausted the whole point of the state budget. Thank you to the Minister of Finance, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point No. 114 of our agenda meeting with the approval of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2019. The next item is
