ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u1	111. Members Jana Pastuchová's proposal, Válková Válkova, Radka Maxová, Patrik Nacher, David Kasal, Karel Rais, Rostislav Vyzula, Martin Kolovratník and Jaroslav Bžoch on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 89/ - third reading Mrs Jana Pastuchová and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, took the position of rapporteur for the appellants' table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 89/3, which was delivered on 27 June this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 89/4. I ask the appellant if she wishes to speak before the debate is opened. Yes, it is. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u2	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, let me just briefly remind you what is going on in this House of the Press. The big discussion took place at second reading. We have a third reading today, so I wouldn't want to repeat it all. Just a short cut. This is the compulsory way of paying the housing allowance -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u3	I'm sorry, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind so that the appellant may present her arguments to us. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u4	Thank you. This is a compulsory way of paying a subsistence allowance for beneficiaries who receive it for more than six months in the last 12 months through vouchers. I would just like to say that vouchers as a form of social welfare payments have always existed in the law on aid in material distress. [[The MP is silent because of the noise in the hall.]] However, the Authority had to prove in administrative proceedings that the client could not manage the money or abuse the dose. The client could appeal and the decision was often, I warn very often, for formal reasons canceled. In the last parliamentary term, after consulting the people of the employment office and with other experts, I proposed that one who receives benefits in material distress for more than six months should receive part of the payout in legal bills, i.e. without the administrative procedure. This proposal was adopted. I would like to reiterate that this is part of a single dose of between 35 and 60 per cent of the dose, the rest of the dose, as well as all other benefits due to the client and his family, are paid in cash. In December and January, when the payout started, the authorities had a lot of work to do with administration, workplace equipment, safes, explaining new adjustments, as well as expanding the network of stores where vouchers can be applied. In the following months, the agenda has sat down and is now not subject to complaints or appeals, as we received yesterday from the Labour Office. My proposal responds to the problems that, in practice, have brought about a mandatory way of paying a subsistence allowance for some beneficiaries, and I suggest that this regulation should not concern recipients who use health or social services where they have a problem paying their meals and the basic need for these devices. Today, 99 colleagues of Mr Kaňkovský and others, who were actually identical, were withdrawn by the House's press. I think this has been discussed for a long time, and I have actually told you the fundamental thesis of my proposal. I beg his support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u5	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová, the plaintiff's deputy. Once again, I ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace so that we can discuss this bill. Does the rapporteur wish to speak to the guarantee committee? Madame, would you like to step out? No. I am opening a general debate. Mrs Rutová is enrolled in the general debate, followed by Mr Sklenák. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u6	Beautiful noon, colleagues and colleagues, dear government, Mr President. My contribution won't be too long. I am glad for what I have heard here from my colleague Pastuchová's mouth, and I am fully inclined to her opinion. I am from the Pilsen Region, so I wanted to know exactly what is going on with vouchers in material distress. I was at the employment office, just like my social committee colleague in my county. I think I can say that in all regions we agree on one. At first, there was really some administrative burden for the authorities, but at present it is a little different. It really sat down and there's no complaints about this. Complaints are really only from people who do not welcome these vouchers because they cannot pay for what they would like to pay, that is, alcohol or their games in gambling rooms or the like. [[12.10 hours]] Since it was also said here at the second reading that the beneficiaries of benefits felt like citizens of the second category, I went to one of the families receiving these vouchers and bought the vouchers for 500 crowns. Those vouchers are worth a lot of money. I took them in 50 crown checks or 50 crown vouchers and went to Pilsen to see if they would really look at me as a second-class citizen, but in either case they didn't. Those vouchers were taken at the drugstores, so they were taken at Alberto. So here's what I think is irrelevant. [[It's always busy in the hall.]] So I am fully inclined to what is now here, that the employment office gives part of the vouchers as vouchers and part of the money, and so it is entirely up to the office, because they know their clients best. And I would like to ask all of you, therefore, to raise your hand for my fellow Member Pastuchová's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u7	Thank you, Madame. Mr Sklenák, Mrs Richterová, will also speak in the debate. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, once again to stop discussing in the Chamber. We are in a situation where we do not understand what the speaker says. I beg you for a little generosity and discipline in this case. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u8	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would also very much like to ask you, my fellow Members, for a moment of attention. You know that I do not have long speeches, but I would like to try to persuade you to vote in a moment on an amendment that makes sense and which I support not only I, and which I have also put forward by my colleague Kaňkovský, support the Pirate Party and others. I'm willing to give you my point of view. Here, the previous speaker and the petitioner said it fit. Those are their words. But perhaps the aim of our activity, the purpose of the adoption of laws is something other than for the workers of the labour offices to sit down in order to adapt their activities to what we are adopting here. Of course, the point is whether the payment of a portion of the contribution in material distress in vouchers makes sense. Until December last year, the practice was such that it was purely on the consideration of the employment office if part of the contribution paid in the vouchers. And the practice was perfectly satisfactory and sufficient, because that's the situation, if the workers knew that there was a problem and that someone really couldn't manage the money or manage it weirdly, so they could reach for this practice. Since December last year, what the last Chamber of Deputies adopted has been true, namely that one who has been poor for a long time must receive part of the benefits in the vouchers. And that's causing a lot of trouble. That is also why we are here at the moment, and that is why the petitioner has tabled an amendment, because, of course, in December, cases started showing up where it puts people in difficult situations and makes no sense at all. So we're here today in a situation where we're looking for groups of people that we're going to remove from this obligation, instead of admitting that we're going on a blind path, and we're going back to the practice as it was, because it's, I repeat, absolutely sufficient. By the way, this is also shared by the Ombudsman's Office - you may have obtained their comments, the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, which supports this, a lot of organisations dealing with this issue. The problem with this House is that we are somewhat burdened with the phenomenon called. abuse. There's always someone coming in here and saying that something is being abused, and there's a law that needs to be passed to prevent it. So here, I guess, it seems, at least, according to the committee meeting, most feel the need to prevent the abuse of those benefits. I would just say to you, my colleagues, those persons, those beneficiaries of the benefits we are talking about here, those are the poorest citizens of this country. These are people who don't own any property, because if they own any property, they can't receive these benefits. They first have to sell everything, and when they have nothing, they are in material need and receive this contribution. If Mrs Rutová here is saying that she's tried it out and that she's taken a 50-caloron meal ticket and now she's dating her to see what it's like, you know, my colleague, to get into the same situation as those people, you'd have to have a third of your salary in those vouchers - 30,000 in vouchers! I'd like to see what you'd do with it, if you had it now, and I'd tell you, that's where Albert takes it, that's where Kaufland takes it, go spend it. And in this situation, these people are. They must, ladies and gentlemen, buy what is cheapest. They know where to buy the cheapest food, where to buy the cheapest clothes and everything, because they really have very little money. And if you tell them there's supermarkets somewhere where they can apply the voucher, it's just expensive for them. Even because the traders must, of course, pay the publishers part of the meal vouchers. There is a margin of at least 10 per cent, or around 10 per cent, and, of course, traders have to project it into the prices of their goods and they have to assume that they have lower sales. Of course, we, I say we get a lot of people into trouble. Useless, because they have to buy overpriced goods, they have to look for stores where they spend vouchers. And so if we look at the group that makes it all happen, so they're the alcoholics or the gamblers, then of course we're not gonna do anything about it, because if someone is so addicted to alcohol or playing and gets the voucher, they're not gonna go and buy their kids yogurt or something. He just goes there and knows where, because the market responded to it, and he just trades the voucher for money. And then he throws them in the vending machine, or he drinks them, except, of course, he doesn't get her full face value for the dealer's meal ticket, but much less. So basically, we're getting into a situation where the authorities are more busy. That is what we have heard, or we have the views of the Director-General of the Labour Office at our disposal. She clearly writes to us - I quote: "From the point of view of the employment authorities, it is necessary to mention, in particular, the high administrative complexity associated with one another. with a financial module. There was an increased frequency of queries at the end of 2017, in the first months of 2018, when questions flowed mainly from the concerns of clients of the new system..." And so on. This means, says the Director-General: "The apparent impact of the flat payment of vouchers on the reduction of benefits in material distress cannot be found. " In other words, there is more to it, work, there is no effect, the recipients of benefits have a more complex life and those who allegedly abuse it can unfortunately do so so so-called. to abuse further, except that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u9	Yes, please call rescue. I am interrupting the House of Deputies. [[After a while.]] I'm specifying the call for a break. I'm declaring a 10-minute break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 12:30 a.m., we will continue the negotiations of the Chamber of Deputies. Before we go back to discussing the interrupted point, in connection with the health pause we have just had here, I will give an extraordinarily important word to Mrs Pastuchová, who will tell us the information that may be useful to all of us once. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, if you've seen, I ran in with a briefcase like this, which is an automatic electric defibrillator. These defibrillators, just for interest, are located at every reception and here at the meeting hall is located on the wall behind the tables at the presentation. Just so you know, if this happens, because before the ambulance arrives, they're going now, but we can all save a life with that defibrillator. If anyone wants to train, we're all available to you paramedics since we've been here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u12	Thank you, madam. And now we return to discussing our point. We interrupted... Well, before we get to him, President Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u13	Just let me thank you all for your patience and empathy for our club. Karel already told us that he was perfectly fine, that we should leave him alone. So I think it's great. He's already in the hands of the doctors. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u14	Thank you. Thank you for the good news. And we're back to the House press 89. Mr Sklenák will continue his speech. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Well, let's hope everything's okay. And I'm just going to make a brief recap. I would very much like to ask for your support, or at least to consider the support of the amendment, which is identified as A1 identical to F4, which is, I repeat, an amendment which puts the legislation back in the state it was in before December last year. That is, specifically, that the employment authorities can, but may not provide part of the allowance in the vouchers. That is, if they have reason to do so. They know there's a difficult situation. On the contrary, they do not have to, as is the case at this point, when even the recipients of the benefits are completely problem-free, they are only poor, so they must draw part of the benefits in the vouchers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next in line for the debate is Mrs Richterová. After that, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to convince anyone because I'm sure you all have your own head. I'd just like to revisit the arguments from a new angle. It's up to you, of course. And I'm really glad that there's probably going to be some sort of mitigation in the sense that those in the residential facilities who have a very complicated life today do not have to have those vouchers. This seems to be the case with the Social Committee votes that it has this support, which I think is really very, very crucial for it to pass. I just want to start by saying that other problems in our social system that are deep and we need to do something about them, namely long-term dependence on benefits, long-term suspicion of the employment office, that someone is working black and that this measure does not really solve these things. It's important to say that this is a measure purely to make life miserable, and not to hide it. Please, that's all it is. And of course, we can make this political choice. I don't agree. However, I call for us not to call it anything else, because from the documents we have received from the Labour Office, which stress that this increased the administrative burden of the Labour Office, that in short, the administrative burden that they have managed has been associated with it, but that has actually increased the operating costs of the State. That as to how the numbers of people in material distress move - it is not traceable that it would have an effect. The joke is that it's a kind of signal, and that's what politics is. In fact, such an area measure as a gross compulsory payment to every poor person who is longer than six months in that material emergency means some part of that allowance for a living in vouchers, unfortunately, is that those people who desperately need cash, even because we as a state can't pay the various benefits that, yes, we have a system that needs some simplification, so we can't pay them in one time. So maybe when people need to pay rent and housing contributions were late, they collected the money as much as they could. I just want to point out that this is the technical problem our state has. And that's why the whole lot of crap started to bloom in the flat-rate benefits. That's been resounding here. I don't want to repeat what's already been done. I just want to point out that this is a logical phenomenon when you apply something that was originally an individual measure based on actually the judgement of professional social workers, and that is why it didn't pay off to be picked up by exactly surface traffickers. There weren't so many people who needed to exchange cash to make it such a widespread phenomenon. That actually the monthly average of the volume paid through vouchers was CZK 9.6 million a month in 2017 in the first eight months, through these vouchers. And it grew tenfold. 97 million. I just want to point out that this goes with it. When we decide, as politicians, that we want to signal, not solve the abuse of benefits, but that we want to signal, we make every poor person's life more difficult than six months in a material need, so that, despite this sort of increased amount of money, we pay a much larger margin to the publishers of those vouchers. And it's logical. They're businessmen, they want profit. But from each of the vouchers taken at the premises, it was said at the committee meeting from the former Minister's mouth that the margin was between 7 and 12 percent of the 97 million a month. We don't know the exact numbers. We don't know exactly what the margin is. This is different in different regions for different providers. But it's 7 to 12 percent of the 97 million a month. They're not small numbers anymore. And all of this adds up to the costs that are generated in general, because then, of course, those cheap establishments don't want to enter the system. Those sales. Of course, it doesn't work on markets, either. So you're really... The example of a big deal that doesn't answer is Lidl. I just want to point out that the regional inaccessibility in small municipalities and the availability in certain types of shops where the poorest people were accustomed to going is a real problem. It's not like we can just bend our shoulders. And now the biggest problem is really for those honest in material distress. The biggest problem is for those who, mostly for reasons that are simply objective, which the social workers could really consider, do not need to be punished further for their difficult life situation. And even those who now receive these vouchers are required. Social workers can't do anything about it. [[12.40 hours]] So I just want to emphasise once again that if it has been said that social workers know their people best, let us give them the tools to do their social work, which they have studied, often for many years, so that they can do it in an individual way. To give them a chance at least to pass the recommended proposal in committee to leave so-called reasons worthy of special consideration. So they can consider reasons worthy of special consideration and not grant the payout in the vouchers. And consider, if our work offices can do that, what we have imposed on them as politicians, even if such a measure, which means an administrative burden, generates a pickling mess, makes it difficult for the honest poor to put up with their situation, does not, in an equally crucial way, disrupt their life strategy, so if we really want to continue to support such a system in this situation. It seems pointless to me, but the decision is, of course, my fellow Members, entirely upon you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u18	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová and Mrs Hyťhová will respond with factual comments. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u19	Thank you. I'm sorry, but I have to respond to two speeches from previous speakers about a letter sent to the employment office. I also have it, and I stressed that the administrative burden was when this change was introduced. But it also says here that the employment office has not confirmed the assumption of a significant increase in the number of complaints in relation to the change in the method of payment. The qualified estimate found that for the first half of 2018, around 3% of all complaints about non-insurable social benefits were linked to change. And in the last letter, the Labor Office also sent us that the special consideration I'm putting in there is that the Labor Office considers it an effective form of working with clients. This alternative will allow the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic to assess the individual social situation of applicants flexibly within the administrative discretion of the Czech Republic. So it actually turns around. Earlier, the authorities had to explain why they weren't giving money, but they were giving food stamps. Today they're gonna have to explain why they don't give food stamps, but money. So I think that the authorities are working with it - precisely that Mrs Richterová says that they know their clients best, so they can apply it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u20	Thank you. Mrs Hyťhová's point of fact, followed by Mrs Richterová's point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u21	I would just like to respond briefly, through Mr President, to Mr Sklenák. Since we're on the social committee together, and he said that you can't pay for college college bills, and here on the mic he said that people only buy the most necessary of it, only the cheapest of it, and that they have to save, so I wonder why he said on the committee that they can't pay for college bills. At the same time, we all know that people in material distress may not be able to afford dorms for college students. And I just wanted to say... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Yes, a social scholarship. Just like my colleague here filled in. And I would just like to say that since point 99 was withdrawn in the morning, to which we as SPD had an amendment, we will decide on 89 on how individual amendments will pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u22	Thank you. Mrs Richterová will speak with a point of fact, and Mr Bláha will be prepared with a point of fact. In the meantime, I'm just gonna introduce you to your apologies. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for further negotiations for working reasons, Mr Jiří Běhounek from 12.45 to 15 hours for working reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u23	Thank you for the floor. Just to make sure there's no mistake. In fact, I would really like to clarify by citing the opinion of the Labour Office that I did not comment on the complaints at all. I just wanted to point out that they mentioned the high administrative complexity associated with, among other things, the financial module of economic activity as the first point in this statement. And I quote: Administrative intensity has also affected administrative proceedings, when all the benefits of the subsistence allowance that were paid on a continuous basis or a further period had to be re-evaluated. - So that's what was in the past. - And now they mention the high administrative demands for the future associated with the financial module. I would just like to make this very clear that I am not saying anything other than that we have imposed another long-term burden on the employment office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u24	Thank you. Mr Bláha and his point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I am so glad that we can discuss this and that through various comments you will learn how it really works in the finals, because in that real life, it is precisely that those who want to take advantage of it will always take advantage of it. So we're just doing extra work. But what's more, this fact only has one winner. And the winner is the ones who print the vouchers. If you've heard the amount of 96 million and you only take 10 percent of it, then a month's worth of $10 million goes to someone who prints the vouchers. One page is money for extradition and the other side is money for withdrawal. That means that the companies that accept the vouchers are usually torn down between 7 and 10 percent. So in the finals, it could be up to 15 percent that gets the person who deals with these vouchers. It's kind of like food stamps. So think about it, because we really only make life uncomfortable for the honest ones, but the dishonest ones can handle it easily. They're going to sell it. And those who buy it out are a bunch because it's a simple profit. The difference is 20 percent. So I'm gonna sell it, I'm gonna get 20 percent less, and whoever buys it from me is laughing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u26	The following is the factual comment made by Mr Sklenák. After that, with a factual remark, President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u27	Thank you for the floor. I just want to respond to a question or a speech by Mrs Hyťhová. I was talking on the Social Committee about the fact that, of course, today the entire families are in material distress. This is judged by the fact that, as jointly considered persons, families are children, and that family is in material distress. And a living allowance as a benefit in material distress serves to satisfy the basic needs of life. I pointed out that the basic needs of life, of course, are not just food. It's not enough to eat. He also has to wear something dressed, he has to travel and so on. I was just pointing out that maybe there are families where there are students who live in boarding school or dorms and so on. And, of course, we have other options for how those families get funding, various social scholarships and so on. But, of course, my point was general that this satisfying the basic needs of life is wider than just food. Then I'll just explain it to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u28	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that ministers come in here like violins. Because it is the duty of the Minister to attend, among other things, a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And at this point, I'd like to turn to the Treasury Secretary. She's not here, so I'll turn to Vice Prime Minister Brabec. One of the reasons the institute was even introduced was because part of the money was lost in the gambling rooms. We have adopted, I would say in general agreement, the amendment to the lottery law, or the new lottery law, where the so-called register of players was to be introduced. And I was already talking about the possibility that those receiving help in material distress should be excluded from throwing that money into a vending machine. I think that's why we pushed it into the law. However, two years have gone by, and the register isn't established, and the Treasury is constantly making excuses for something, and I don't know what. [[12.50 hours]] So I want to ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister Brabec what's going on with the players' registry, because that's one of the problems that, if he had solved himself, one of the problems that led to these vouchers was logically lost. But if it's not solved, then the problem just goes on and then the meaning of the vouchers continues. And it's true as always. If you're taking any repressive measures for a group of dishonest people, it's unfortunately going to fall on the honest ones. That's just the way it is, because there's no other way to do it selectively. But the register of players, among other things, could have helped at least in this segment so that money in material distress didn't end up in vending machines. He could have effectively prevented it. And nothing happened at all, just once every six months I read in public sources that finance has a problem with that, that it isn't yet. I have two questions: why it isn't and when it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u30	Thank you. We are continuing the general debate with those who are enrolled. Mr Kaňkovský is applied for, followed by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u31	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'm just getting started. I did not want to comment on the factual point, but I will have two brief remarks on what Mrs Hyťhová said here through the President, just to be clear. We have proposed today the removal of House press 99 from the agenda of this meeting, but the press remains in the system and we will see how press discussion will turn out 89. It would be good if one of the press had been approved. We have the option today, but the press 99 hasn't disappeared yet. And as far as the participation of ministers is concerned, it is not a blasphemy, it is rather a blasphemy. This print significantly affects the Ministry of MPSV. I must say that at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs expressed their views on the amendments and it is very wrong that we cannot know the position here today, because, for example, the amendment of Mr Sklenák and mine, which are identical, had a positive position by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But I'll get to that later. Discussions about mandatory vouchers, benefits for a living ranging from 35 to 65 percent have been going on for several months. She was very rich here in plenary and in the Committee on Social Policy. There are two facts to be said at the beginning. There are two currents of opinion. One represents Mrs Pastuchová and her colleagues, and this concerns the House press, which we are discussing now, that is, 89, which comes up with a solution to the unhappy situation of compulsory vouchers by a system of exceptions, I would say moderate exceptions, and there is still an institute of reasons worthy of special consideration. Then there's the second current of opinion that I and my colleagues represent, who say that the system has more problems with compulsory vouchers and that there is a need to do more of these exceptions. That's the House press 99. As far as the fundamental difference is concerned, we are proposing more exceptions. We think that the exceptions should also apply to those who have a granted care allowance in the middle to the highest degree of addiction, that this should apply to seniors - we talked about whether it should be over 68 years of age or over 70 years of age - and also about those who have a recognised disability in the third degree, and about those who are caring for a person close to us, that is, a person who is dependent on the physical assistance of another person. These are probably the fundamental differences that we will also be discussing as part of the approval of the amendments we have read today. I also want to say here that this is not a competition to see whether the House will be won by 89 colleagues Jana Pastuchová, who is the first to vote on the starting line at third reading. That's not the point. The point is to resolve the unhappy state around the vouchers. There is really a preference here to discuss whether it is difficult for the labour authorities, whether it is difficult for the social unions, and much less to discuss whether it really goes directly to people who are in a difficult situation. Yes, we can argue, and it is often true that some of these people are responsible for it themselves, but I think it still doesn't mean that we shouldn't be plotting for all kinds of doses to be addressed and to go to those who need them. There is, of course, the abuse factor. Roman Sklenák was talking about it. I'll join him. I still think that the state should be more concerned about the situation of a caring parent than a drone, or that at least we shouldn't turn it around. This means that we should not be the first one to be the drone and then the caring parent, but we should be able to target the doses and we should also be very good at checking and possibly punishing the abuse of the doses. As I have already said, the discussion on what kind of exceptions we should remove from the compulsory system of vouchers was very turbulent, and, as has been said, there are many problems. I've talked a lot about this here at second reading. Roman Sklenák, colleague Olga Richterová, mentioned some of the problems here today, so I won't repeat it all. But, if I may say for myself, I was most likely to receive comments from social services. Social workers there have a big problem with that. The big problem is in long-term care facilities, especially in psychiatric hospitals in long-term hospitalized hospitals. That's another circle of problems where they have a big problem with the mandatory vouchers. And that's what needs to be dealt with. [[It's busy in the hall.]] So if we are going to talk specifically about the amendments that I have taken the liberty of reading into the system and which I would like you to support -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down, so that the Member may have the right conditions for him to finish his speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u33	So the first proposal to be voted under the apparently approved voting procedure is the amendment under F4. Roman Sklenák has already spoken of him. It is the same amendment, which, just after considering all the circumstances, the scope of exceptions and fragmentation of opinions on which exceptions are yes and which are not, is also the opinion of the public defender of rights, who has presented dozens of complaints that the Ombudsman's office is addressing at the moment, so this proposal returns the system just before the last amendment. It is necessary - and perhaps also for the media, because, as I've noticed, the media may be a little bit intrigued. If we return the law on material distress before the last amendment, there will still be a chance for the employment office to use the vouchers. It will still be in the range of 35 to 65 percent, and it will be on the consideration of the workers of the employment offices who will have the opportunity, and precisely because they know clients, they will be able to assess whether or not to give them the vouchers. So Amendment F4, return before the last amendment. If this amendment fails, then Amendment F1 will be voted in some other place under the procedure. This applies to exceptions for persons caring for a person who is dependent on the assistance of another natural person at second to fourth levels, and also for a person who is caring for a person dependent on the assistance of a natural person under the age of 10, from the first stage. Here it must be said that these people usually have so much to worry about, that it is not easy for them to go around shops in a wide area. Here's to the margo of what my colleague Rutová said, and it's nothing personal, but it's different if you start going around the shops in a big city like Plzeň, and if you meet this problem in the countryside, where the benefits eater increases the cost of commuting to the shops where they can apply the vouchers. In addition, there will be a vote on the amendment under point F1, which is an exception for persons receiving a care allowance with a moderate to complete dependence. I also think that there is no need to stress that these people have a very difficult time with vouchers. The last proposal I tabled is Amendment F3, which provides an exception for persons with third-degree disability and seniors over 70 years of age. I firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that when voting on these amendments, you will take into account that benefits in material distress, in this case a living benefit, should be effective in helping people who are in a difficult situation in their lives. This should be the first and fundamental task of the state. [[13.00 hours]] Maybe I'll follow up on the debate that went on here yesterday. We all know or think that most of us here realize that the system of benefits and the social system in the Czech Republic has big gaps. There are big gaps in the dosage system at all. And here I would appeal to the government and to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance departments to actually come up with a proposal for a comprehensive change in social benefits and benefits system at all. As far as the position of the KDU-ČSL is concerned, we have dealt intensively with this problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u34	Ambassador, I'm sorry, it's 13 o'clock and we should be done. Please complete the sentence and we will adjourn the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u35	The KDU-ČSL club has devoted himself intensively to this, presenting its own amendment to the law under the House press 99 and a set of amendments. And I'll finish the rest of the speech in the next hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u36	Thank you. I'm interrupting this point. I'm finishing the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, meeting again at 2:30 p.m. We're going to be dealing with a block of laws at first reading. At the same time, I remind the members of the Organizing Committee that the meeting of the Organising Committee will begin five minutes after the end of the morning meeting, i.e. at 13.05 a.m. Enjoy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-005-111.u37	Good afternoon. I shall therefore begin the afternoon section of the Chamber of Deputies. So first, I'd like to read the apologies. Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes for his absence to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for the whole afternoon's meeting. From 14.30 to 17.00, Mr Milan Hnilička apologizes for reasons of work. Between 17.15 and 23.00, Mr František Elfmark apologizes for the hearing. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes today until 16.30 hours for work reasons. We will now proceed to the discussion of the first press. This is about
