ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u1	178. Information report by the Minister of Health completed information by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports on the state of the Faculty Hospital Ostrava and the Faculty of Medicine Ostrava I will ask for peace in the hall or, if necessary, Members to settle in their seats. The Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch should take the floor first. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to inform you about the situation at the University Hospital in Ostrava. I must begin by saying that I feel that something is being dealt with here, though not entirely with the detailed knowledge of the background. The fact that there are, of course, certain pressures in the media today on the personnel solution of the situation at the University Hospital in Ostrava is true. On the other hand, it must be said that the situation is certainly not black and white. I have dealt intensively with this situation in the last two weeks, but of course I have dealt with it in the past. It is true that there have been several personnel measures in that hospital, several changes in the position of clinic leaders, but the changes in certain cases were entirely justified. This must be said at the outset. Director Machytka came into office to map a situation that was not entirely good in terms of the various connections to private entities that apparently made money out of the hospital, that is, there were property links and personal connections between certain hospital leaders to private entities outside the hospital, which proved to be an internal audit, when this audit was carried out before the summer and found that indeed some of the faculty hospitals in Ostrava are also owners of a private laboratory and decide that samples will be sent to this laboratory for laboratory examination. They even evaluated this lab, of course, always very positive. In this situation, of course, I have agreed that personnel measures must take place. I just don't think it's okay if the hospital employees are also private lab owners and decide what samples they're going to be passed on to this lab, and that's how they do their business. This is where I agreed that there must be changes. I think they were completely legitimate and based on really mapped facts. So that's the first thing. Just so we don't see the whole thing through the context of the current situation, but we've seen it in some longer term, or backwards, as the situation has evolved. I agree that in that last step of personnel, with the appeal of the head of the gynecological and postpartum clinic, Mr. Šimetka, I see this appeal as very complicated. On the basis of the fact that this situation was dealt with in the media, I personally went to the Faculty Hospital in Ostrava on Friday. It must be said that before I tried to calm the situation down. I have dealt with Mr Šimetka repeatedly in person and remotely, when we agreed originally that he will return to his post as the leaders of the gynecological and obstetric clinic. On Wednesday afternoon he wrote to me that they agreed with the director of the hospital that Mr. Professor Šimetka will return to his post as head of the gynecological and obstetric clinic on Friday. He clearly wrote this message to me. I subsequently went to the hospital on Friday with the fact that this situation will be mitized and this, let's say, will be resolved at that particular moment, that is to say, the return of Professor Šimetka and some settlement of the disputes. Unfortunately, I arrived at the hospital in Ostrava on Friday and Mr. Professor Šimetka turned around, changed his mind in two days since Wednesday and decided not to return to his position as a leader. Of course, this has made the situation quite difficult. Perhaps I would still say to those appeals that it is surprising that no one was overly concerned with the situation where the previous director, Dr. Němeček, withdrew, terminated cooperation with a number of advantages. I can name here how many clinics have lost their priority for managing Director Němeček. It is a total of 16 hospital executives, whether vice-president or senior executives, who ended up managing Mr. Němeček. And no one's been mediating it like that. So it must also be said that the situation is not really completely black and white. And the fact that it may be nourished to some extent, the current case, someone who doesn't quite like it, that he had to, and now I'm not talking about Professor Šimetek, but maybe someone who doesn't like it, that he had to quit precisely because he may have been interrupted by certain activities that I was talking about, that they were accustomed to using the hospital for their private business, so it can also be. I don't want to suspect anyone here, but to a certain extent, I think the situation is very heated and perhaps not entirely justified. On the other hand, it is true that the situation in the hospital is problematic, without a doubt, the communication across the hospital is not optimal. I've been getting a number of negative and positive comments about hospital management over the past few days. There are several petitions, one in support of the current leadership, another against the current leadership. I have received a number of e-mails expressing the support of Director Machytek and from some of the leaders, the chiefs and so on, and, of course, those that are negative for management. So I would say that the situation in the hospital is split, that there are just two groups, one that supports leadership, the other that doesn't support. It's true that communication isn't quite good there. The atmosphere is a little tense, I'm sure I don't want to question that. And I made it clear, and now I've described it here that on Friday, when I personally went to the faculty hospital to listen to all the sides of the dispute, I went to calm the situation down. The fact that this failed because, as I say, Professor Šimetka changed his mind in two days and decided that he would not return to the position of chief, it changed the situation and I said on Friday that I wanted to take some time to think about it and I want to resolve the situation in the hospital in the order of days, which means, without a doubt, that the situation will be resolved in the final week regardless of the matter here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I will decide on my own, my best knowledge and conscience, so that the situation in the hospital calms down and the hospital can, of course, function without any major problems. So that's what I can say. I'm sure the situation doesn't please me. The media image is, let's say, negative, even though I feel like some of them are expressing themselves in the media and maybe the situation... or they're still pouring oil into the fire without waiting for any decision or final solution to come. As I say, I want to finish the situation this week and, of course, I can inform you afterwards, but I don't think that's absolutely necessary. Without a doubt, it will also be presented in a media presentation. [[18.10 hours]] So just enough to know what the situation was with the genesis, it's not black and white, that the appeal of certain hospital officials was quite appropriate from my point of view. I'd do the same for Director Machytka if I had this information. But of course, it's certainly not entirely positive on the other hand. And there were certainly a number of mistakes in terms of communication within the hospital. So, based on that, I'm going to deal with the situation further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u3	Thank you for your attention, too. Now the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga should complete the information, but he is duly excused from the start of the day. I have an update that the plaintiff doesn't mind. So if it doesn't bother the House, then we'll continue. I therefore ask Mr Leo Luzar, the appellant of this point, whether he wishes to speak and also to be rapporteur for this point. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me apologize first perhaps for bringing this subject here on this honorable ground of the House. Unfortunately, I expected that after the heated situation, and from the Minister's words, it would mean that it's actually happening now, that it's up to date. But the situation has been going on for almost a year. In other words, there's been something going on at Ostrava University Hospital for a year. And since the solution that was said on Friday in Ostrava when I expected it to be, and the Minister said that he would change his mind over the weekend and decide, I waited with suspense on Monday. And it didn't have to happen. Unfortunately, on Monday, the information, the solution we're all waiting for in the Moravian-Silesian region, just didn't come up. That is why I have decided to raise this issue to this House, because I think that one of the major faculty hospitals in the Republic, one of the areas with problems, the Moravian-Silesian Region, deserves an answer to the questions that are being raised. And they don't just sound from the professional public anymore. It doesn't just sound from inside the hospital anymore, but unfortunately, it got into the general public, too, for me. It also reached among the students of the medical faculty, which is directly associated with symbiosis with the faculty hospital, and it began to raise quite serious questions that should be raised. The Minister here used the argument that it should be a dispute, a historical dispute between the former minister, former director Mr. Němeček and his new successor who came to this hospital - I will allow myself to paraphrase - to introduce a new order. That's where he used an argument. And I'll ask the Minister. You're talking about diverting or dealing with samples that are put into private labs. I'm asking if you know how many percent of the samples from the overall samples have been diverted like this, and if it's over, if Mr. Machytka as director stopped it. According to my information, it was at least a percentage if we were talking about two or three percent of those samples that went to some lab, and most importantly because there was no other way to do it, and whether Mr. Machytka solved it and stopped it, and no more samples are going to private labs today, perhaps connected to existing doctors. Because if that argument were made, maybe you're right, but I'm afraid they misinformed you in preparation, and that the situation is simply not as black and white as you're trying to tell us that the hospital was working somehow, and it's good now. But I'd be willing to take that as an argument. But if a crisis manager is to start, a person who is to establish order in a hospital, a faculty hospital, a large faculty hospital, which, according to the Minister's statement, has been mismanaged in the long run, I ask why 33 advantages oppose the Director, why the vast majority of experts in that hospital oppose. Are all these seniors connected to the last bad job that worked there? Or is it something else? I have had the opportunity to have fun with doctors who do not live in politics like the two of us who do not work in various political beliefs and do not work in various political images that can affect it, and now I am heading to the former involvement of my colleague Němeček as Minister of Health. And, of course, that engagement at the Ministry might have damaged his reputation, and it might have worked somehow at the hospital. I'm heading for what's going on in there. And those doctors say we're apolitical. We don't care about politics. We want to do our expertise, our work. And we don't have time for any political skirmishes and any issues related to your interpretation or what's going on. We want to heal and we want to treat it with quality and modernity. And we just haven't been able to do this for the last year because we've been counting, yes, the new director is coming, it's gonna be new, and now in quotes, the broom that beats well, it's gonna make things right. We're gonna make it through these two, three, four months. We'll just sort these things out, and we'll work. But it didn't happen. And it started to escalate even. It got to the point that it even started pouring into the medical school. Those personal interests started to kind of increase their credit in deciding what's right and what's wrong from the factual things that should be discussed. And here I'm starting to wonder if the person responsible for this was appointed and should have solved the problems, if he had done the right thing, if he was doing all the steps he should have done. No one is infallible, of course. And I'm not saying Mr. Machytka isn't an expert. But he's probably gonna have a problem with the management system, communicating with those he's supposed to communicate with, that is, with those advantages, not being able to explain his idea of functioning, and not being able to explain to them how the faculty hospital under his leadership should work. And when it gets to the point that the students here are against it, they're almost on strike that the employees, in the vast majority of the trade unions, in the vast majority, all protest against the system that they're being introduced to, there's probably something wrong. And in my opinion, that's the wrong thing about management. Just Mr. Machytka can be a good doctor, I'm not saying he's not, I don't know him personally. But it's just that his management steps and what he's done in other faculty hospital employees haven't aroused confidence that he knows what he wants, and he knows how to deal with it. That's why I expected a clear solution from your visit on Friday. This existing leadership had some time to deal with the situation. You stood by the full weight of the Minister for the actions that have been taken. And, of course, that responsibility falls under the Ministry, because the faculty hospital is a ministerial matter, which I think we understand. And this is where I missed it on Monday. Therefore, Minister, I would like you to address this issue with your weight as Minister. That is why I have also prepared a motion for a resolution which I have handed out to honored colleagues at the clubs. I gave it to you to meet him. I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. But let me quote it now: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Minister of Health to resolve the situation at the Ostrava University Hospital immediately in accordance with the majority requirement and opinion of the professional public and employees of the Ostrava University Faculty of Medicine with the aim of stabilizing both organizations which are essential for the Moravian-Silesian Region and the city of Ostrava." I think that this motion for a resolution is passable in this House, and it will equip you with a mandate to deal with the problem that has arisen there in a fair and clear way in favour of these institutions, and so that we do not have to go back in time to the fact that, for example, accreditation of the Faculty of Medicine in Ostrava could be called into question, the Academic Senate of the Ostrava University could be called into question, or some of the expertise at the Ostrava Faculty Hospital, which I consider to be a top workplace, could be the departure of those guarantors, those who create it, and we could lose the reputation of this institution as the Ostrava Faculty Hospital, or that credit could be in a direction where we would not want it to go, and I do not want to use terms that are unworthy of this honored House. [[18.20 hours]] So much for my opening word, Minister. I firmly believe that the motion for a resolution is not directed against you, I think that is what you perceive, but it is aimed at dealing with the situation and dealing with it quickly and forcefully. I know the students and I were texted by the students, and you were talking about it, and I got their statement, and they're unhappy about it. As a state, we've experienced two governments, it's not your fault, we couldn't even deal with the court's decision to nullify the appeal. We've been there. We've had two police directors. It's not an easy situation, I think we're aware of that, it's not even a simple solution. Still, it can happen. But just to let it go so freely that there are two deans working here and now who, how, what and the opportunity to question all the decisions that have been made is quite a big problem. And even the academic community perceives and feels quite sensitive. I understand that the Minister of Education, I am speaking to him now, is actually excused. I spoke to his staff from the Ministry, and I warned them that I would also like to focus on whether the academic Senate and all the steps he has taken, because the position of the academic Senate is also called into question, in order to verify whether they correspond to the school law, whether the steps have been taken as they should be done in order not to challenge these steps. But it's also a solution that I think will require outside help. Because the solution between the two - and now the look of the rooster on the same field again - is a little bit of a problem. And there will also have to be a little bit of consideration for the circumstance that precedes it, the connection with the faculty hospital, which is very important, as well as the opinions of the professional public, the opinions of the people involved. And I firmly believe that from today's meeting, if this resolution is adopted by the House, your clear decision will come, and we will never have to deal with this case with the University Hospital in Ostrava, and we will only have to speak proudly about how the faculty hospitals work and how well they are managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u5	Thank you, too. I am now launching a general debate in which four Members are enrolled. He is Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Svoboda, Mr Juříček and Mr Vondrák. I assume that Mr Luzar has already made his speech. And now the Minister is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. dáma and gentlemen, if we're talking about the details, the internal audit that was carried out found that 50 percent of the total number of laboratory examinations commissioned in the last three years outside of the Institute of Pathology of the Ostrava University Hospital went to the laboratories of property linked to faculty hospital staff. At the same time, they carried out evaluations of external laboratories. This means that those who owned the laboratories entered samples into these laboratories and carried out regular evaluations of these laboratories so that the cooperation with them would continue. So I don't know if it's a thing that's normal, I guess for someone, but for me, it really isn't. And in this regard, I think that this personnel decision was absolutely appropriate and that everyone has to realize that he either wants to work for a state hospital where I think he doesn't have a completely bad salary as a leader, or he wants to do his own private business. But it doesn't work together. And this is where I think it was right. I agree, however, that the other steps were certainly not entirely happy and that the communication there is not optimal, in the hospital, I do not question that at all. The fact that there are just two groups, and I wouldn't even say it's some kind of overwhelming majority. I have also dealt with representatives of all trade unions, I have seen the expression, for example, of the Medical Union Club, which had a different opinion than the organization that mostly talks to the media. So the situation is, I'd say torn apart, not majority, but that's definitely something that's not okay, I'm sure I agree. And it has to be dealt with, I'm sure it has. I will deal with this regardless of this House's resolution. As I say, that the situation did not resolve on Friday, unfortunately I have to say, it was not entirely my fault, because if the retired chief of the gynecological and postpartum clinic held the position that he presented on Wednesday, that is, that he agreed with Director Machytka to get back on Friday as the chief of the gynecological and postpartum clinic under exactly the same conditions, and with this I went to Ostrava on Friday, that means that the situation would have calmed down, and he also presented it that is why he is doing it, so we would probably have a different situation today. That he changed his mind on Friday for some reason, and I don't know exactly where the reasons were, so, of course, the situation escalated even more. But here I think maybe it wasn't entirely fair on his part. But I don't want anybody's conscience to know why it changed, why they're gonna change their mind in two days, whether they get in or out. It's his personal business, of course. But it changed the situation. And why didn't I decide yesterday? I was abroad yesterday, I was represented by the Ministry of Health, respectively. The Czech Republic, at the Visegrad Four meeting in Slovakia, which is why I did not deal with the situation yesterday. So today I am actually the first working day in the Czech Republic and believe that this week the situation will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u7	Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Černohorský, then Mr Svoboda, before the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u8	Thank you. Hello. I would just like to respond to Mr Luzar or also to the Minister. [[President: By me, please.]] Through Mr President. Mr Luzar here asked quite an interesting question as to whether the samples are still being sent to those companies until now and whether there is anyone else who is doing such examinations, which is quite an important question in the context of the evaluation of the whole situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u9	I also thank you, and now I am asking Mr Svoboda for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that I signed up for this counter today has led me to believe that the Minister spoke about the fact that Ostrava Hospital is one of the 15 hospitals in charge. It is not possible to talk about Ostrava's hospital in this way. The Ostrava hospital is an extraordinary hospital with its location, the space it serves, in quotation marks, and all-regional hospital equipment. One important thing is that Ostrava Hospital has a medical faculty. The medical school, which is the youngest in our country, is not even ten years old, and it is a medical school that loses credit for such things, and its graduates, of course, will have a worse chance of applying than normal faculty graduates. That's a lot of things that are very important. That's why I decided to talk. Of course, fighting corruption is expensive, it always costs a lot - time, money, freedom. But it all has to have some sort of pattern. We have to try to maintain the function of the things we are in charge of. If there was a normal Accreditation Commission that worked until last year, the medical faculty and the Ostrava hospital would be here at the moment for accreditation. Because the departure of so many leaders who are the guarantors of those fields can't be easy. The guarantee has to be replaced by something. Nobody cared about that. There was no one appointed as a new branch guarantor. And without a sectoral guarantee, the study within the European Union is losing its European validity. It is simply because graduates of our medical faculties are entitled to practice in any country of the European Union, and it is because we meet some educational conditions. These include the fact that the workplaces are accredited, and the accreditation process guarantees that the quality and scope of the teaching corresponds to European criteria. That's the second very serious thing. [[18.30 hours]] Of course, if so many advantages are exchanged, it is a different situation than when Minister Němeček exchanged so many and so many advantages throughout his time, they too are growing old, they are retiring, so that the number of such exchanges is great. What arouses some unrest in me is that from the beginning it was said that in Ostrava hospital the director Němeček will have enormous problems due to his functioning in the government. Working in government - it is nothing more than that it may not have been in some form of government leadership. But there wasn't just an exchange of clinic privileges, there was an exchange in management. The head of the personnel department of such a huge faculty hospital with such a huge reach is now a woman who has no practice with the profession, she is a graduate of some secondary school teacher. I don't want to lower the education, but it's true that it's an education that has nothing to do with personalism or management. And that's where I see the whole buried dog. If something gets destroyed and cleaned up and cleaned up, it doesn't matter what falls, and if the machine works, or if it stops, it's managementally wrong. In a situation like this, the manager must be able to keep things going that he's fixing. Can't be fixed by ruining something. It doesn't work that way, and it shouldn't work that way in medicine anymore. Docent Šimetka is an extraordinary expert in his field. I say this with the full weight of having the same profession as him, and I've known him since I was a kid. He's actually been there for more than ten years now in charge. It's a field that's almost extinct today. Almost no one wants to do this profession, to answer for the maternity and gynecology, that is a very, very difficult profession. Dr. Šimetka is an excellent expert, and he's a decent man. A decent man I say with the big S at the beginning. If he says he can't stay in that position, it makes me more than doubt that everything is okay at the hospital. And if in the middle of the week he said he was going to return to his post, and on Friday he said, "It's not really possible with the director, I'm not able to cooperate with him," those are his words, so something's wrong, Minister. And that has to be dealt with. And I am convinced that this House has a right to say something about it. It's about the basal and basic care of our citizens. It is an area of our republic that has very many other problems, and the problem with the problem of the hospital and the faculty is indeed more than bad to use fine words. I am convinced that when a year goes by and the changes you wished for did not occur, it is time to look for another solution. All I'm saying is, it's time to find another way to manage this problem! And it's a medical problem, it's a university problem, it's a human problem! And once again, I say circle back, and this has to be someone who can solve things, who has management skills and who is able to communicate. You know, doctors are a special sort of thing. Waiters say they're the worst guests because they understand everything and they're always right. That remains a little bit in you when you decide things like illness or severe illness. But on the other hand, they're very communicative people because it's their profession. They actually work as confessionals today, because in our infidel country, people don't come to church as much as they consult their doctors. And doctors are used to finding solutions. They are used to finding solutions and they know that there are no remedies in their profession, so they try to find solutions quickly and well. I don't believe it, because I know these people, some of them actually from a young age as a starting doctor, some of them as equal colleagues, that these people would not be willing to take any solution that would be functional. At the number in which it is, it's simply not appropriate to the situation. I am not saying any resolution that should be voted on. What I'm saying is my appeal to you, Minister. Take it really seriously. And don't worry about it with the feeling that you have some direction, something you wanted and that you want to push it. Solve it in such a way that it is a good way to deal with things. And when I'm dealing with something useful, I often have to say, "I've made a mistake, but I will correct it as quickly as possible." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u11	Good evening. I see here with the prime minister's right to express himself. It's the only priority right, I'll give you my word. And then Mr Pavel Juříček would have prepared himself in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Medical school. I don't know if Mr. Machytka is threatening medical school. First of all, in office is not a year, but about six months, he was appointed in April, so I don't know if he is the author of medical school problems. The problem with the medical school was that the medical school, and I don't know exactly who, wasn't able to process a change in the position of dean. This is simply the fact that Professor Zonča, who was one of the two deans, i.e. the suspended dean, attacked this procedure in court and succeeded three times. The court ruled three times that he should be returned. And that, of course, is a problem, that's certainly not an optimal thing, but somebody in that faculty was wrong, and that's what caused the problem. The fact that, of course, the situation today is problematic from the point of view of publishing tenders and the like, because the director and dean have to agree, and the dean is basically not quite there today, is not exactly who he is, it obviously also causes problems. It is clear that the relationship between the medical faculty and the hospital has been very bad for some time now, thanks to these changes that have been brought about in the past. This may be one of the original causes of the current problems. The faculty needs to have a clear, indisputable dean who will work with the director of the hospital as well as in the future, and overall communication will work better. On the other hand, I don't think there's any threat to the care of the faculty hospital. I said it was one of several faculty hospitals that the Ministry of Health runs. I don't want to put her down with this at all. It is very important for the region. And I also think that patient care has certainly not been fundamentally compromised in the last month, which I don't think it is. The fact that the situation is complicated in terms of communication, that's true, but I wouldn't say it would have any direct impact on patients. [[18.40 hours]] So it's just to illustrate the problematic relationships that are between the medical faculty and the hospital, and which certainly need to be resolved by being appointed as a standard, long-term dean, who will not be questioned in any way. And I believe that the overall situation will also stabilize considerably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u13	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Svoboda would speak. And it is the only factual point at the moment, so then Mr Pavel Juříček would prepare himself. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u14	Yes, I apologize for my point of fact, but I have some facts that concern the medical school and the faculty hospital. The medical school and the faculty hospital are twins, even conjoined twins. They can only work for each other. The moment you start tearing down the hospital, I say it as a delegated word, so you're also tearing down the faculty. It's just because the hospital teaches and provides teaching in the clinical fields. At the moment the quality of the hospital declines, the quality of the medical faculty automatically declines. That is why the system is set up so that both academics and the director really decide on the head of the clinic. Even in the appointment of the head of the school's post, it's like the dean's law has more power. And now we're in a situation where there are two deans, one was appointed, the other was returned to office, and the management decided - you know? To the dean who was appointed there, they said, "Please don't make any big decisions yet, and wait for the mandate to run. - Because every dean is elected for four years, it was on three, now it's on four, and he's done with his mandate. Well, that's a management decision par excellence! And that's how it works. And if you want to hear something. I guarantee you with the guarantee of my medical experience, that medical care suffers there. The moment it starts to disintegrate, when it loses its head, because the hospital, the clinic is a ship that has a captain, and then the next batch goes on, and when you break it, it stops working. I guarantee you, the care suffers. Guaranteed, I'm putting my hand in the fire. I know that very well. That's why it can't be downplayed like that. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That is why we need to take this absolutely seriously.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u15	So now I would call on Mr Pavel Juříček to speak in the debate, and Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd rather just focus on the facts. It must be said that Mr. MUDr. Evžen Machytka actually returned from the United States after x years, where he worked as a gastroenterologist with excellent recommendations just from individual CEOs of individual hospitals. Among the hospitals he worked at was Mayo University Hospital. At the same time, when he applied for the tender, and now I don't know when it was, he exceeded all other candidates with great knowledge in the field, with a large range of knowledge and managers from the United States, where it is common that universities and faculties also establish their startups, where he founded them as well. And that tender, let's say he won by a big steamer - he exceeded the other candidates by a few classes, let's say. At the same time he had some experience from the Czech Republic, whether from Brno or from Ostrava, and at the same time he was interested in surrounding himself with other people from abroad, which was supposed to be doc. Zonča, who, if the medical school worked, could become the chief of surgery. He is a relatively young man, but in surgery in Switzerland and Germany with an incredible reputation, and he is a man who dares to do difficult and complex things, not simple and common, which were just typical of the previous leaders who worked as head of surgery at the Ostrava University Hospital. The first departure that was signaled in this way was actually at Professor Penk's own request, who knew that time was leaving in some way, and that was kind of a deal. docent Zonča is confirmed several times that he is a lecturer because three judgments of the administrative court, one of the Supreme Administrative Court, clearly state that the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine was not legally appointed, which was the previous Dean, and that he was illegally manipulated by the membership of the academic Senate. [[Dean]] In other words, the academic Senate was not properly composed and this situation arose from the incorrect composition of the academic Senate. Subsequently, even though these actions were declared by the Regional Court, even by the Supreme Administrative Court, the Rector of the University of Ostrava did not intend to respect these actions by an independent court. And we met several times with Professor Lata and asked him to cooperate precisely because the dean, who was appointed illegally on the basis of a rigged academic senate, was the person who had the labs that the minister spoke of. The case is really quite difficult, and if the House really wants to deal with this in detail, then I think it is appropriate to announce that an independent committee of inquiry should be established, but it will not be very pleasant for any of us. So just to get back. Mr. MUDr. Machytka is a man uncorruptible and a man partly raised abroad, who clearly always promotes the very impossibility of corruption. I described his steps at the beginning. And then when he did some sort of financial and legal audit, he called off the very people who were tied to the money lines. It must be said that to this day I have news that it has managed to save the hospital about 50 miles. koruna; 50 miles. Of course, there are not too many crowns within billions, but they are money lines that are clear. But I would like to get back to one thing right now - to think that the person who calls off the people who are clearly standing on those money lines should be respected by us and should be bowed down to him. Not that we're saying it's a measure, but it's gonna damage the entire medical school or it's gonna damage the faculty hospital. I think we're here to promote really incorruptible. And I think Mr. MUDr. Machytka clearly proved it. He knew he was going to the lion's den and he wouldn't breathe easily. The second thing is that when it turned out that docent. Zonča is dean, so his dean position was not allowed, and he, as an excellent surgeon, basically has no reason to stay here in the Czech Republic in any way, and he prefers to leave it a little nestled pond back to Austria this time, where he works as a surgeon in a private Salzburg hospital. [[18.50 hours]] Finally, I would like to read to you one more letter from Professor Grundmann to the Rector, who has promised to give his hand several times in cooperation to declare selection procedures for new privileges and, at the same time, to be appointed by the new seniors. I mean, what Dr. Machytka did towards Dr. Ondřej Šimetek wasn't well. One more time: it wasn't good. But he had a legal analysis that showed that the previous director had signed a travel report to Dr. Šimetka for three months as a doctor without borders. He left for three months and, at the same time, was not basically a priority, or a functional priority, of the obstetrical-gynecological primacy, while he was in charge of completely senseless construction of new obstetric-gynecological halls for CZK 180 million, when the hospital was in danger of losing CZK 60 million in the absence of individual transfer protocols. Based on the legal analysis presented by the law firm, with which the faculty hospital cooperates, on the basis of these matters, not the expertise, the excellent expertise of Mr Šimetka, he called him back because he had specific facts on which the chief failed to play a role. But a senseless role that has been set in past periods prior to the hospital management. Of course, it's illusionary to think that doctors, experts, professional bureaucracy, which is really only meant to do those things that they understand, build pavilions, say if there's enough iron, concrete, and if the optical fibers are properly divided. That's just nonsense. This is what Dr. Machytka wants to change into project management so that doctors can really do their medical work and they can do things effectively, not like this. But that was just a mistake, which, when it was discovered, I met with Dr. Šimetka myself, and for two hours I persuaded him that this error of Dr. Machytka's tactical nature was wrong, and that Dr. Šimetka, who really has a reputation throughout the Czech Republic, but also abroad, should return to his position. And that Dr. Machytka would apologize to him based on that stupid legal analysis. Then the minister, who also persuaded him, stepped in and seemed to be convinced by the minister. After that, what we've heard here has come into being. But I really just want to say in conclusion. There are actually two "enemy" parties here. But it's true that if any of you were in that managerial position and were actually in the claws of various media-based affairs and at the same time a dysfunctional medical faculty and an inefficient rector, he's actually completely trapped. Of course, the man himself struggles and wants to fight it because he has already started how Ostrava University Hospital will cooperate with Olomouc, Professor Havlík, how he will cooperate with the University Hospital in Zlín, Dr. engineer Maráček, so as to make joint purchases as usual abroad, so as to save himself and keep more money for doctors and nurses. Because the cost reduction is actually defined by the nature of the distribution of money in health care. And like I said, now it's just an opinion. In addition to the petitions, where about 30 doctors reject Dr. Machytka, on the other hand, there are about 150 doctors and nurses who support Dr. Machytka today. But the opinion of Professor Grundmann, who is a very respected man, I think he's worth quoting to you some of his things. So an open letter about the dissatisfaction of doctors running the University of Ostrava Medical School. This letter is written by Professor Grundmann to Professor Lata: "Dear Rector, I appeal to you with interest in expressing the discontent of doctors at Ostrava University and members of the academic community of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Ostrava. First of all, the defense of Professor Zonč. In the introduction - Thank you. [[Strong noise in the hall. The President is asking for peace.]] At the beginning, I'll say docent. MUDr. Pavel Zonča, ., FRCS, MBA, performed a huge piece of work for the medical faculty and took the only possible path for the medical faculty in medical and nonmedical fields. As doctors, we both know that the acquisition of doctoral programs in general medicine and other scientific works by Dean Zonč were breakthroughs and did not follow up with new leadership. Professor Zonč rumors are entirely based on lies and misinformation. I am an older man, so I am not afraid to stand up for my opinion, and I am not going to accept intimidation methods against current leadership. The illegitimate composition of the medical faculty - another point. I am primarily expressing my dissatisfaction in relation to the academic Senate of the Faculty of Medicine, which, in my view, does not show a legitimate composition, given the case-law of the Regional Court in Ostrava and the Supreme Administrative Court, which, although it has the management of the Faculty of Medicine at its disposal, nevertheless does not treat it with due respect and I would literally say that what is going on is repeated obstruction of judicial decisions in a situation where the competent judicial authorities are told that a decision is given by a Senate in a composition which does not comply with the rules and therefore this composition is very likely to have an effect on the legality of the decisions taken." And this continues with three pages where he clearly stood up for Professor Zonča and Dr. Machytka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u17	Thank you. I'll read two apologies. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologizes from 18:00 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Dominik Feri apologises between 18:15 and 19:00 for working reasons. So now we have two minutes. I would just like to say that I have noted that the original agreement was that we will end at 19 o'clock, but I have now noted the proposal not to interrupt Mr Černohorský, who is with a point of fact. That would be the will to negotiate this point. This is not a law; we can still vote on the resolution after 7:00 p.m., or the day of the hearing is within 21:00 p.m. So maybe I'll ask you in advance to the diaper to no longer interrupt the Member if you agree to discuss this after 19 o'clock. I ask the Presidents of the Members' Clubs and, where appropriate, their representatives. So it's quiet, so we'll still act after 7:00. I will now ask Mr Lukáš Černohorský with a factual remark and prepare Mr Petr Dolínek with a factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u18	I would like to respond to the fact that Mr. Machytka had a big lead in the selection process. He ended up as rated as the second candidate, and that was Mr. Havrlant. So I guess it was more of a subjective evaluation. This needs to be straightened out. But I got another interesting one... Or the gloss of one of the journalists from the Moravian-Silesian daily, which I will now read through Mr President, and I would like to ask Mr Juříček the following question: "Most interesting, however, is that new connections are beginning to come out. Some may be speculation, others may be suspiciously fitting in. In the galleys, there is increasingly loud talk of Machytka becoming director of the FN thanks to the intercession of two regional representatives of the ANO movement. One of them is Pavel Juříček - an MP, a big businessman from Opavsko, who has a great influence on the Minister of Health. He was on the selection committee for head of the FN, and for Machytka he worked hard to get there. An even more interesting role seems to be played by the Senator for YES Peter Koliba, the Porubian doctor, who, by the way, is a gynecologist. And it was the recent senseless appeal of the chief of the obstetric clinic Ondřej Šimetka that was the last demon on the necklace of the senseless decisions of Evžen Machytka." Otherwise I quote from the Gloss of Aleš Uhr. I would like to ask the Member here, or the Minister, whether it was really so that Mr Machytka was lobbied and, if so, on what basis was Mr Machytka preferred, on the contrary, when Mr Havrlant was supported by the Faculty of Ostrava? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u19	I would just ask you to address yourself through the President. So thank you otherwise for keeping time. And with another factual remark, Mr Petr Dolínek. So far it is the last point of fact, so it will eventually be prepared if another one enters, Mr. Ivo Vondrák with a performance. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u20	Good evening, colleagues. In part, I wanted to say what the previous speaker said, that I would really ask the Member not to be misleading. There were clearly two candidates in the final with the same number of points in the tender. After the deputy mayor did the analysis. Excuse me, the Deputy Minister has done an analysis that clearly recommended one of the candidates, which I fully respect. It's a classic procedure. But just don't make it out here that someone was miles away, etcetera. And the other thing only. Mr. Němeček has been in office for 13 years. And the minister mentioned 16 exchanges. It's been six months and five exchanges here. Again. I would just like to ask, through Mr President, that I think we are not discussing this today because of Mr Němeček, that no one has mentioned him here. And I think it was a useless parallel. I'd like to stand up for the Minister here on one thing, that I'm sure it's hard to figure this out. It's very complicated, as described here. The whole field of college is young there. The situation is complicated. And all the more I wouldn't want to ruin it with parallels from the past. I think we need to face it the way it is and figure this thing out. I very much appreciate Mr. Docent Svoboda in the expert part, as he said, and historically for our eight years of experience and cooperation, I can say that he was never wrong in the professional part. Therefore, I think it is good to take the words that have been said very seriously here. And one last thing. I am very sorry that the current director of Ostrava's minister's hospital has shown such awkwardness as the fact that we are spending an hour of time here today running into the details of who runs what part of the faculty, who is where the leader, who sends what samples. That doesn't belong here. In order for the Minister to be exposed to having an argument over the phone with a superior, and the Director is unable to guarantee it, I think that's embarrassing. So I strongly hope that the Director is following the situation and will bring about his responsibility quickly in the order of hours. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u21	Now, therefore, in the general debate, Mr Ivo Vondrák. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And Mr. Válek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u22	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In a nutshell, in a nutshell. First of all, I am unable to confirm or disprove the medical skills of Professor Zonč or Dr. Machytka. That's the first thing. However, as a person who has been head of an academic institution for quite a long time, I can evaluate the results of Mr. Machytka's management work. A good manager has to have a vision and get people for her. The result is that personnel policy leads to the destruction of the entire FN. And the fact that it said that the hospital was torn apart, I beg you, is proof that the director can't handle it. That's just the way it is. You can't basically lead a hospital into this state in the nine months it's been operating there. Finally, the opinion of 34 chief executives, leaders and their representatives, who - and I will quote now - are expressing a significant breach of trust in the person of the director and demanding the elimination of the atmosphere of fear and uncertainty in the hospital. I think it's pretty obvious, and I don't think there's much to discuss. Now I'd like to stand up for Professor Šimetka. I've had a chance to meet a whole bunch of FN doctors in that time. We've been dealing with this for more than 14 days. The hospital's been in these problems for a long time. Professor Šimetka was called away in such a way that by midnight he had to leave his office and take his things in a box! When he was to be put back in his position, he asked the director to apologize to him. And he's been labeled a man who's aggressive. Don't be mad at me, this is not how you deal with the head of a clinic that has an academic degree and also actually works for lékař Without Borders, which I would consider positive, because it sacrifices its time and basically puts life in such situations sometimes. So please, I'd like to say the situation is serious. I think it really is wrong that we are dealing with it here in the House of Parliament, because it is not appropriate. But I believe - and we have expressed our position in this way with the Mayor, because we are also essentially exposed to the pressure of the situation. By the way, I, too, have to be responsible for the state of health in our region and FN is crucial. I therefore ask that we agree on this resolution and, if possible, resolve the situation as it has been said here. I believe that it would be, and here it has been said from the mouth of the previous speaker, that it would be best if the director had done so himself and voluntarily and left with honor. No one wants to touch him, of course, but it's a decision that's on him, and I think it's primarily on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u23	Well, thank you. I would therefore now like to call, for the last time entered into the general debate, Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u24	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I want to be nice, even though I got a little upset at some of the shows. I took with me the Rules of Procedure and Elections of the Academic Senate of the Faculty of Medicine of Ostrava, because on the basis of one of the performances I came to the impression that the Rules of Procedure must be completely different from the Rules of Procedure of the other faculties of medicine. It's not, it's the same. I am two consecutive periods, and through the President a fellow Member She scrubbed it out, made the president of the Academy Senate of the Masaryk University Medical Faculty. I organized the choice of three deans. I took part in the next dean's election. And I worked for six years as president of the Association of Academic Boards of Medical Faculties of the Czech and Slovak Republics, i.e. the Academic Senate of the Faculty of Medicine of Ostrava, and I met their presidents repeatedly. We always have meetings once a year and we discuss problems. So in 1989, one of the essential things, one of the fundamental things students fought for, was something called academic freedom. Discussing that academic freedoms... or suggesting that academic freedoms are not something that is unshakable, I find it incredibly defensive. And part of academic freedoms is to respect the decisions of academic chambers of faculties and universities. In academic senators, there are not just some corrupt academics, if anyone thought so, but in a number of academic chambers there are half, or at least a third, in most half of the students. The fact that there could be a rigged election to the Senate, where half of the students are, that the students have manipulated the election and that they have elected someone who has been manipulated by the election, that seems completely absurd to me. Yes. In the history of individual faculties, a number of deans appealed. And yes, architecture in Brno is one of those examples. Those deans fought from the decisions of the academic chambers. The reasons were different. But let's remember the Pilsner law case. Who was finally held accountable? Chairman of the Academic Senate of the Faculty of Law in Pilsen. He was the one who answered. The Academic Senate is the faculty parliament. The Academic Senate is the parliament of the university. His position is unshakable, and if there really are suspicions of manipulating the election to the academic Senate, it is indeed an extremely serious suspicion. And if it sounds on Parliament's soil, it should be very, very consistently addressed. [[19.10 hours]] The dean is not elected simply, the dean is elected by the academic Senate, must be elected by an absolute majority, a two-thirds majority, and must be confirmed by the Rector. The dean can be called off by the academic senate. He can call him off any time. That's the law of the academic senate and his duty. That means if there's a dean in Ostrava at the medical school who's not supposed to be dean, then we said and we heard here that the academic senate of the medical faculty isn't doing it. If that is the case, it is a very, very serious situation. And that he doesn't have a convention - yes, he has a convention. In this year he had organized a certificate, in this year he had organized a certificate of the Faculty of Medicine in Ostrava. Will he organize them? It won't. They're organized by the First Medical Faculty. Ostrava's out, KOR representatives won't be there, they won't be organising the tests, they're moving back to 1st Medical School. That's why. From the chaos that reigns there. That's why we need to end this chaos as quickly as possible. I don't know what individual colleagues are like. I'm an honorary member of the Surgical Society, I've never met Professor Zonča, I've never heard him lecture, I don't know him personally. I've been to the Gastroenterological Society on the committee, I'm Vice President of the Society of Gastrointestinal Oncology, I've never heard Dr. Mastyk Machytka, I can't evaluate them as experts, and it's nonsense to talk about it like that. There are a number of doctors who are top experts, and there's no point in personalizing it. I don't want to be serious, I want to be lightweight. It's the same as when they asked in the rychlý Arrow whether to vote for Losna or the Mažňák Man. From my point of view, maybe a Bahňák. But make it work. Let it work quickly to the satisfaction of patients, to the satisfaction of academics, to the satisfaction of students and to the functioning of the medical faculty. The Faculty of Medicine in Ostrava was created not in a happy way. From the beginning there are doubts as to whether it meets the requirements for the functioning of the medical school, if there are enough academics with sufficient accreditation, if it is of sufficient quality. We want this faculty to be, we need it to stay, to be good, and this incredibly undermines trust both in the medical faculty and in the faculty hospital. Of course, patients are not affected because doctors are doing their best not to be affected. The nurses try, all the employees try, but the result in the eyes of the professional public and in the eyes of the lay public is disastrous. I'm incredibly upset when we've been debating Ostrava for the last month, but for the last six months at our expert meetings where I lecture. That's just awful. It is awkward, and it both bothers me as a doctor and as a Member. I'd like this situation to be resolved really quickly. I would like all those involved to sit at the round table, whether there is a commission, but I consider it unnecessary, it is entirely within the competence of both ministers, so that they remain fully academic freedom of the Senate, so that decisions of the Senate of the Medical Faculty and the University and the position of the Rector are accepted, because these persons are duly elected by the proper process, so that relations are calmed down and the faculty and faculty hospitals begin to function. Yes, I agree that many of these problems are historical and unfortunately none of us are responsible for them sitting here. However, it is our fault if this continues. Let's get this over with. I think there are a number of questions that are in Ostrava. We could debate the labs, but I don't think it belongs to a debate on Parliament's land. We might as well be debating, and the Minister knows because I gave it to him and we talked about treating a number of cancer patients. I don't want to open the topics, I don't want to do it, but if this situation doesn't work out, I'm left with nothing else. I would very much like to, and for this very much please, in the interests of all of us, let us resolve this as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u25	That was Mr. Válek. I have a point of fact here. I'm going to ask Mrs. Helena Válková to perform. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I actually hear the mention of Pilsner's rights whenever I hear the mention of Pilsner's rights, so the past and my beloved faculty emerge, and as I was very hesitant at the time with the assistants, now the professors, perhaps Professor Bezouška, what to do in a situation when we knew what was going on there, and we knew that we had to get off, and at the same time we knew that it could happen - and we did not know by then what damage was caused by the leadership on the reputation of Pilsen's rights, what would happen after our performance. In the end, we did it, we don't regret it, the faculty cleared itself, got all the accreditations, even if it took her about ten years. So from the point of view of the past, in all situations, even the hardest, we've always respected the academic Senate. Even when we didn't like it at all. Then, a year later, we left because we didn't get the trust we needed, because many people didn't vote for us, because in the secret elections, it turned out that they couldn't forget that we had the reputation of Pilsner's rights, even though it was justified, basically damaged by their announcements. It took too long for the prestige of the Pilsen Law School to get back to - I hope - deserved. So I agree completely with that, and I underline the importance of what my previous speaker, the namesake, Mr Válek, has said, through you, Mr Vice-President, that it must never happen that academic freedoms and the rights of the academic Senate must be questioned. That's the last of my sentence. Right now, I'm going to jump into the present, but a little bit into the future, because there's also a shame about the reputation of Ostrava Medical School in the academic community, and that's because they're running now, as you all know, accreditation processes, and a lot of my colleagues and colleagues are asking how they can apply for accreditation, how can they - [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u27	Madam, time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u28	- how can they get accreditation if they have two deans there. So it might have an immediate -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u29	Madam, time. I have to, I'm sorry, but -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u30	Okay. So I'm just done with the memento. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u31	Feel free to log in again. Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Juříček. Please, your two minutes. By the way, since no one is enrolled in the general debate, if you want to go into the general debate? Okay. But that was after that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u32	I just wanted to say a few facts. The Regional Court and the Supreme Administrative Court have said that the academic Senate is poorly elected and manipulated. Just for the record, in terms of expertise in the academic Senate of the Faculty of Medicine in Ostrava, there are three doctors from the faculty hospital. The other five doctors are not from the faculty hospital and the rest of the academic Senate is made up of non-doctors and students. That's just a point of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u33	Thank you. Now, then, the Minister with priority rights. Mr Válek's point of fact has yet to come to my attention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't want to drag it all out. There's been a lot of arguments here. It must be said that the real double rule is wrong. That's indisputable. It will end because by the end of October, Mr. Professor Zonča will end, and as far as I know, new elections are already being made to the Dean of the Medical School. I believe that will calm things down. I consider this to be one of the basic solutions to the problem that doesn't go completely to my head, because it's just that none of us are responsible for the problems at the medical school. The fact that there was a lawsuit, probably not by law, because three times the court ruled that it wasn't, is probably true, even though we can simply disagree with the legal opinion, but I believe that the situation will simply be resolved by the end of October, that Professor Zonča will end as dean and then there will be new elections. For me, the whole discussion, and I don't want to drag it any further - of course, I'm going to take all the arguments out of it, and that's what I'm going to decide. I don't think I really need a resolution or anything like that. As I said, I was convinced that I wanted to settle the situation this week, one way or another, regardless of the fact that this House is dealing with it. I will also do my best to benefit the University Hospital in Ostrava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u35	So, that was the minister. Mr Válek will now speak with a point of fact and prepare Mr Svoboda. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u36	I'm terribly sorry, but I have to say it and I'm sorry. I'm the last person to defend, I'm from a competitive faculty that would defend the Ostrava Medical Faculty and their academic senate. Chairman of the academic Senate, Department of Intensive Medicine, Urgent Medicine, Forensics, other members. docent MUDr. Bužga, Institute of Physiology and Pathophysiology, Associate Professor František Dorko, Institute of Anatomy, Professor Milan Grundmann, Institute of Pharmacology, MUDr. Irena Chmelová, Department of Rehabilitation, Master Jaroslava Chylíková, Department of Chmelová, Master Martina Kovalová, Institute of Epidemiology and Public Health Protection, Associate Professor Krupa, Institute of Imaging Techniques, MUDr. Mrázková, Department of Epidemiology. And so I could go on. There are representatives of individual theoretical institutes, as is perfectly common in all academic senators. If you knew how the election works, you'd understand why it's like this. And, of course, students' representatives are there. In a number of academic chambers of medical faculties, the majority of students are overhalf. A typical example is the 2nd Medical School, if I remember correctly. That's how it is. Those are the academic freedoms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u37	Thank you. And now, for the moment, the final point in fact, Mr Svoboda. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u38	Actually, a colleague of Válek said it all. If I want to talk about the academic senate, I should read the rules, as he says. Each academic senate has defined how many clinics there are, how many representatives of theoretical disciplines, how many students there are. This is clearly defined and chosen separately. Each election is separate and the student cannot fill the post of educator and the theorist cannot run for a clinic. This is where we keep telling each other things that aren't true, and it really bothers me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u39	Thank you. And one more point of fact. Attention - Mr Michálek, Mr Michálek, has signed up electronically before you, so Mr Michálek, Mr Michálek, two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u40	I just wanted to correct the student statement. They make up a maximum of one half of the members of the academic senate, to be clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u41	And now, in fact, or in general? You don't care. So here's to the de facto Mr. Černohorský MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u42	I still haven't been told whether these samples are still being sent to the same company and if there is anyone else who does these tests. If the Minister does not know this, I will answer you and Mr Luzar through the President, even in writing if the Minister does not know at this time. But I'd like to hear that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u43	Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u44	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I can also add this in detail, but it should be said that the audit ended in June or July, which mapped out the work of this private laboratory and the staff links of those representatives of the individual clinics, who were subsequently recalled. So it is clear that in a relatively short time it is not possible to change the whole thing from June or July, but the situation is that indeed some contracts are already being terminated, some are running and gradually the hospital's goal is to switch to another system of taking these samples so that it is simply not bound to just one particular laboratory. I am convinced, at least as I know at least the market for laboratory services, that there are more entities capable of offering these services, and that hospital simply wants to create a transparent environment. And it's certainly not possible, I repeat, that hospital officials are also in organs or are owners of a private lab that receives samples from this hospital. I don't think it's okay, and she did, as far as I know, even the hospital. All those who make this decision should have signed a statement of conflict of interest if they were not in this conflict. This was also one of the internal audit measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u45	That was the Minister. I'll read the apologies. Mr Jiří Bláha apologizes from his duties in the region from 19.05 until the end of the House meeting. Mr Dominik Feri, another apology between 19 and 21 hours for work reasons. So let me see... because I see no more applications in the context of the general debate, and that concludes the general debate. I will ask whether there is interest in the final words of either the plaintiff or the minister. You're interested in the final word. Okay. Mr Leo Luzar, who is the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. There have been a lot of arguments here, but I think the aim of this debate today was to say that the Chamber of Deputies does not care what is going on in the faculties, what is going on in the organisations that talk about having problems and that the ministries do not solve these problems or deal with them lately and slowly. I think that, even from today's debate, the Minister has taken a lot of comments and observations on both academic freedoms, academic chambers, and the functioning and management of the management of large hospitals. The Minister, of course, refers more than once in this debate to the audit that has been carried out. I would very much like to ask him here if this audit could be available so that we can see and read what he was drawing from, because I don't believe his intention is to do any harm, certainly not. He got the documents and drew and made decisions from these documents. I will be very happy to be able to get acquainted with these documents, too, to know what the situation looks like under this audit. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for a motion for a resolution. This resolution is written, say, in a free style in order to seek solutions, and a quick solution. If there are any problems with any words, whether most of the employees are supposed to be there or not to be mentioned by the employees, and the way I'm picking up in the machine guns, I'll leave you to it. But I think that this resolution is quite reasonable to end this debate, and especially to find a solution for the University Hospital in Ostrava, the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Ostrava, the Moravian-Silesian Region and the city of Ostrava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u47	Thank you. We will now proceed to the debate in detail and Mr Leo Luzar has once again taken the floor. I'm going to ask you to read the resolution. It's on my desk. I'll have to give it to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u48	Thank you. So: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Minister of Health to resolve immediately the situation at the Ostrava University Hospital in accordance with the majority requirement and opinion of the professional public and employees of the Ostrava University Faculty of Medicine with the aim of stabilizing both organizations, which are essential for the Moravian-Silesian Region and the city of Ostrava."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-006-178.u49	Thank you. Since I do not have any more entered into the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I'll ask again if you're interested in the final word. Neither does the Minister. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the resolution. I'll call the Members to the O.R. I see and I hear that there's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. Sign up with all your voting cards. [[Gong.]] I think there's enough of us... still Members coming. I will not read the resolution again because it is clear to all of us what to vote on. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes the resolution, press the button and raise your hand. In voting number 45, 127 Members voted in favour of 78, against 11, and 38 abstained. The resolution was adopted. That concludes this point. I also conclude today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00 and have a good evening.
