ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u1	65. Proposal by Members Milan Hnilička, Patrik Nacher, Věra Procházková, Jaroslav Bžoch and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws /house print 241/ - first reading prosit have Mr Milan Hnilička, Mr Milan Hnilička, present the motion put forward by the representatives of the appellants. And I call on you to bear with me, because Members are still leaving, so there is not enough peace. Anyway... It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u2	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable colleagues, honourable members of the Government, together with 51 colleagues and fellow Members, I present to you for discussion a draft law on the amendment of Act No.115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws, which is being discussed as House Press No. 241. As of 1 March this year, I also serve as a Government Commissioner for Sport in addition to the position of the Chamber of Deputies. I cooperate with representatives of the sports environment, from which I, as a former professional athlete and proud representative of our republic and later club and union officials come from. I am communicating with the municipal and regional authorities for which I am trying to take account of their needs when setting rules on the financing of sport at the central level of the state. He has cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of Finance is a matter of course and I am very pleased that I also receive positive reactions from representatives of these departments to my work as a government agent for sport. A lot of friends and friends and a lot of strangers ask me why I'm doing this. If I have to do politics at all. I often hear it: You had a pretty good position in that hockey union. I answer them, yes. I need it. I am tired of looking at the direction of sport in the Czech Republic. Our children are getting less and less sporty. Our children's mobility is pathetic. And gym class has become one of the least popular subjects. Our national sports have successfully fallen through the world's rankings. And the only sports that even the world's top today are all based on the individual approach of the individual and his family, almost independently of the state support system. I also need it because I see that sports are done differently out there. Better, efficient. With much better results, whether at the level of representation or at the level of sport of the entire society in general. And here, unfortunately, I can see and hear constant yammering, how nothing works. How expensive everything is, how we don't have the necessary sports grounds. They don't have sports equipment in the clubs. Like coaches who take care of our little girls and boys do their jobs for real for free. And I don't want to hear it anymore. I'd like to change that. That is why I am here, which is why I have been running for the Chamber of Deputies to help change the functioning of sports support and to correct today's unflattering reputation of all those who have driven sport from the central level. [[16.20 hours]] But what really pisses me off, and maybe I could find a different expression for it, when I'm hearing on TV or reading in the newspaper about new and new cases in the allocation of sports subsidies. I hate this because I see how it degrades the whole sports environment, how it distrusts all those who work honestly in this sport and make it with love and great sacrifice at the expense of their free time, their families and the nearest and often using their own money, which is not really small. When I participated as a representative of the YES in the preparation of the Government's programming statement and we discussed with representatives of social democracy, we clearly agreed that we must move on with sport and create a new entity that will newly govern the area of support for sport in the Czech Republic. And while you know him, I will allow all of you colleagues to quote a part of the text of this closed programming statement: "The Government Commissioner for Sport, subordinate to the Prime Minister, will coordinate with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the area of State aid for sport and define institutional, financial and legislative parameters for the emergence of a new central authority, the National Sports Agency, which will comprehensively ensure the implementation of a state policy in the field of promoting sport and the movement activities of the population." So, ladies and gentlemen, here we go. Before first reading, a technical amendment to the Sport Support Act is submitted, which regulates this key, which is that it gives the possibility of creating a National Sports Agency. An agency which will aim to comprehensively ensure the implementation of state policy in the area of promoting sport and the movement activities of the population, i.e. all of us. I would now like to thank everyone at this point, with whom I had the opportunity to communicate and prepare this technical amendment, which was across the political spectrum, and who later signed up for it. Thank you again. The negotiations that I conduct with representatives of the sports environment clearly result in conclusions and recommendations, not only that this is necessary, but it is necessary to change and set up new conditions for promoting sport in order to match the importance of sport as a community service. In providing support for sport, it is absolutely crucial to place emphasis on speed, clarity, transparency, predictability, stability and ongoing awareness. You're probably asking what I mean by speed. Let me give you some specific examples. Isn't it absurd that Jizera's 50, which takes place in January, should receive as a request for a project in a challenge in June, and the subsidy was awarded to her in September or October, i.e. nine months after the last competitor of this great and prestigious race? At that rate, I also mean that a small club that asks for a grant to support its activities in December will receive a grant in August of the following year, again only after eight months of application. I ask how the sports environment can function effectively and effectively, which is expected of course, when it does not actually know whether the subsidy will be allocated to it, if the conditions of the subsidy will not be changed during the period from the announcement of the call for a grant and the decision to be given. I want to say here that I do not see at speed that money is being sent headlessly and blindly to all those who request it, but that the sport environment is kept informed about the preparations of calls, the conditions and criteria under which financial support can be obtained, that they, that is, the sports environment, the upcoming changes are consulted and that there are no errors and unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic obstructions, precisely because clubs, associations and simply the entire sporting events are waiting for the required financial support for a long time. Here I see the necessity and fundamental change of the grant provider's approach to all grant applicants. I also mentioned clarity. Here I am thinking above all of the creation of a functional register of athletes, coaches and sports officials, but also the introduction of a register of sports venues. After all, the central authority, the Ministry of Education responsible for sport, currently does not even know how many active athletes, coaches, clubs, playgrounds and sports grounds are. So I ask - is it possible to grant in such an inconspicuous environment correctly and on time, clearly and efficiently sports subsidies that keep Czech sport above water? Is it possible in such an environment to expect that with the support of the state, we will be able to raise new Olympic winners or that we will succeed in attracting the majority of our society to sports, sports and sports activities? Definitely not, in my opinion. Such an environment clearly does not record it. Therefore, we can't be surprised when the Norwegian anthem, eight Dutch and five Austrians played at the last winter Olympics, and if it weren't for our fantastic and relatively autonomous Ester Ledecká, we wouldn't have heard our anthem once. Those countries I mentioned, Norway, Holland or Austria, are not as big as the United States of America or Russia. They're just as big as us, but in their systems, they're pre-precised - isn't that exactly what we're missing? - clarity, transparency, clear targeting of the aid and the related effectiveness of the resources spent. They just have what we're missing at the central level. Therefore, when we start with the basic one, this is the register, it will also be important for the sake of clarity to introduce the digitalisation of the sports environment, whether within the electronic register of athletes for the purpose of more accurate and faster redistribution of subsidies or for the purpose of effective control. Only after real implementation of such measures will we be able to talk about the basic elements of a clear sports environment. I also mentioned transparency, predictability and stability. These criteria, respectively. These necessary conditions are essential to each other and are basic building blocks for the development of sport, because every sport organisation needs to know for its activity the conditions under which support from the state will be provided and ideally at what level. For its development, it needs to know under what conditions it will eventually be able to achieve higher support, or possibly to support another or another from another financial source. I would like to say that almost every sport organisation deals with multi-source funding. But what has caused the development of Czech sport in recent years has been the absence of a systematic approach. At almost regular intervals, new ministers of education alternated, with each new minister came up with another way of grabbing the support of sport. In the last ten years, 13 ministers have replaced the Education Department. And in such an environment, it is really very difficult to create working systems. And I ask - isn't it in the amendment to the law that we proposed the six-year term of office of the President of the Agency that will ensure these necessary conditions for the development of sport in the form of transparency, predictability and stability? Will this not create the necessary space for systematic access to sport? I dare say it will be. Perhaps you, my dear colleagues, are now telling yourself what this hnilička is telling us, where did he come from, that he's telling us it's just like this. Well, I would like to use at this point the audit conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office, which I have here with me, I can show, if necessary, the conclusions of the last four inspections carried out at the Ministry of Education between 2011 and 2016. They note that the grant of state budget subsidies was a systemic error of the Ministry of Education in providing subsidies to promote sport. Let me give you a few examples. The Ministry of Education allocated a grant from the state budget of CZK 4.5 million to the beneficiary, who prepared the application for the subsidy eleven months after the deadline and did not meet the conditions laid down in the programme at all. Or, for example, when the Ministry of Education granted a subsidy for a project for which the applicant did not request aid. In particular, MŠMT granted a grant from the state budget of CZK 250 000 to the beneficiary for the project, even though the applicant did not ask to support the project in the applications for the grant. It is not quite incredible for me to conclude and find the SAO that the Ministry of Finance wrongly spent the funds of the state budget and violated budgetary discipline by - and now, please, listen carefully - providing subsidies on the basis of subsidy applications which were made only after the decision to grant it was given. [[16.30 hours]] The calculation of system errors is long, describes errors in requests, errors in deadlines, of course also errors in the purpose of using the subsidy etc. The failure was also seen by the SAO in insufficient control, when the Ministry of Education examined subsidies only in two cases, in projects worth CZK 15 million, although the state budget supported projects worth more than CZK 3 billion. As I say, these are absolutely incredible errors for me, which have been made repeatedly as the SAO's findings during further checks. There is no mention that the SAO's control actions aimed at granting aid to sport resulted in the submission of four criminal notifications and the submission of 25 notifications of suspected violations of budgetary discipline. If I add to this the intervention of the Police of the Czech Republic from May last year, which took place in connection with the distribution of subsidies to promote sport, then I will just underline literally the critical condition that systematic support for sport in the Czech Republic has reached and from which it only gets very complicated and complexly. In this context, I will merely add that the intervention of the police had such a fatal impact on the Department of Sport at the Ministry of Sports that, outside the accused, it meant the immediate departures of officials, heads of department or director of the Department of Sport. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, do any of you still doubt how essential and necessary is the change that must take place in order to start working professional, systematic and targeted support for Czech sport? I, along with the other drafters, have no doubt about it. As a first and necessary step towards change, we jointly promote the creation of a new central government body, which will also have its own budget chapter in the state budget, we propose the creation of a National Sports Agency. I may answer before you ask - no, it will not be a new ministry with a often demanding and complicated system of operation and sometimes a very cumbersome apparatus. I am convinced, together with the other proponents of this bill, that it is not necessary to establish a new ministry in order to meet the expectations of not only the sports environment but also the general public, even though it sounds from the proposals of some representatives of the sports environment or from some colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies. In view of previous legislative practice, experience and history in excluding specific parts of competences from ministries, such as the proposed allocation of sport from the Ministry of Education, a model has proved successful in transferring these competences to a new, other central government body, but not at the level of the newly established ministry. For example, this model was used in the establishment of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements or the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure. I believe that this procedure has its logic, also taking into account the Civil Service Act and its implementing legislation, in particular Government Decree No. 92/2015 Coll., on Rules for the Organisation of the Service Office. In this context, I would like to point out, and with full conviction, that although the proposed draft law is about exempting sport from the Ministry of Education, it is necessary to consider the whole sport area so essential for our entire society that the proposed agency will have some attributes - and I repeat, only some attributes - similar to the Ministry. This is why the Agency is proposed as a central government body with its own budget chapter. If you're asking why we think it's right this way, I'll answer simply. Since I've been operating in a sports environment as a functionary, deputy and government agent, I've been trying to have discussions and discussions with parents of sports children, coaches, teachers and gym teachers, representatives of sports associations, the biggest sports clubs, discussing sports with sportsmen such as Radek Štěpánek, Jarda Jágr or Pavel Nedvěd, they're good friends of mine, and others who are also slowly getting into sports on so-called sports. The other side. And after these debates, I am clearly convinced that sport is part of the whole society. Sports mixes into sports activities of preschool children, children in schools, students in universities, many of us who are enrolled in professional, semi-professional or amateur sports clubs, in unity and associations, in which we find our own fulfillment and satisfaction from sports performances. Sport is clearly becoming an integral part of life and many of our seniors, and I am very pleased about that. Perhaps we are all also aware that sport is a fundamental attribute of healthy life and a tool for maintaining the physical and mental condition of our children, including adults. We perceive that sport is essential as a preventive tool against disease and plays an important role in preventing the consequences of overuse of information technology at the expense of natural leisure. Sport has an important role to play in strengthening crime prevention, drug prevention and other sociopathological phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, with all due respect for the entire cultural environment, allow me to make some comparisons between sport and culture. From the perspective of the social impact of the areas, the area of sport is as important as the area of culture. Contrary to the area of sport, culture is managed by the Ministry and two state funds as a tool of the Ministry of Culture for the distribution of subsidies. While sport is a social phenomenon as well as culture, the competence of the state in this area is exercised by the fifth section of the Education Department. Successful athletes spread the good name of our country abroad, as well as artists or scientists. The future of children is significantly linked to sport, as well as culture or science. Despite all this, he has not yet found sport as a social phenomenon owns a place among the central authorities of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, for all the reasons and facts that I have mentioned, and I believe that there is sufficient justification, I would like to say that the proposal proposed by us to amend the law on the creation of a central administrative office for sport is in fact the only possible solution to the situation that cannot be ignored any further. In accordance with the Government Declaration YES and ČSSD, we therefore propose that - as I have mentioned several times - this institution bear the name of the National Sports Agency. The Agency's main task will be to create a new system of State aid for sport, which, in cooperation with regional and general authorities, will ensure systematic, targeted and effective aid and support for sport at all levels. We are aware that we cannot impose any tasks on the authorities. But we can help them financially and methodically. Together with the authorities, we can better plan and coordinate support for sport from the central level. The goal is therefore absolutely clear - rebooting the operation of the sports environment, professional, systematic and targeted support for Czech sport and reducing the financial intensity of sport, which goes mainly to families and households. Yes, the largest source of funding for sport in our country is really home. According to the KPNG study, the share of household funds in total sport consumption in 2017 was 81 percent. Only then did the public money follow. According to all the necessary formal requirements, the parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the Law on promoting sport has been passed through a commentary procedure and was approved by the Government in mid-August, proposing certain recommendations. I firmly believe that the amendment will go through the first reading, which is why I consider it appropriate to discuss these recommendations further, to take some of them into account and to work them perfectly into the amendment of the law. We consider the recommendations of the Legislative Council of the Government to be crucial, which states that it is desirable for the purposes of the amendment of the law to lay down precisely transitional provisions which clearly lay down the plan and timetable, to lay down for a certain period the common competences of the old and new office and also to describe the progress of the deletion of the functional posts of experts from the Sports Department for the Agency's needs. Since the proposed amendment also envisages certain changes in the law of competence, which consist in the transfer of competences in the field of sport from the Ministry of Sports to the National Sports Agency, we also propose to amend the law on conflict of interest, in order to create conditions for the head of the Agency to be anyone who meets the conditions necessary for this position and who, on the Prime Minister's proposal, the Government will approve. I am quite responsible in saying that this position should also remain open to the Member or Senator of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Maybe you'll ask me again why. Well, because the prestige and status of the National Sports Agency would simply be strengthened, both within the state administration and at international level. [[16.40 hours]] When I was in Georgia two weeks ago when I attended an international meeting of sports ministers and representatives of sports at the level of parliaments, there was no doubt about how important a social role sports has in other countries and regions as well. I would like to say that it should therefore not be an obstacle to us, even if the position of President of the Agency is open to a Member or senator of Parliament. It would demonstrate the importance and prestige of sport for our entire company and here in our country. In our view, this would also have an advantage in discussing the new state policy of sport, the new law on sport and other related documents. It is precisely because the Agency has been waiting for a very demanding legislative period since the beginning of its operation, the negotiation of policies and laws, which will have to take place in close cooperation with both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, that can be regarded as an advantage for all. As I have already indicated, the Agency should be headed by a President who will elect two Vice-Presidents. The Agency is designed as an institution whose task is to improve, as far as possible, the conditions of sport, the public utility of which is laid down by the Law on the promotion of sport. The Agency's important role will be to prepare strategic conceptual documents and legal and legal regulations. Its coordination and methodological activities towards both self-government and sports organisations will be essential. In particular, we propose that the President and Vice-Presidents of the Agency should not be subject to the Civil Service Act. I am also often asked how we are to invent that the structure of the agency will look. Of course, we deal with this in close cooperation with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. However, my idea is quite clear. A support administrative cabinet should be created around the President and Vice-Presidents, which will cooperate directly with the Department of Foreign Relations and Communication, as well as with the Security Department. The assumption is that most of these people will be employed under the Labour Code. The executive component will consist of four trade unions, which will concentrate the key forces to ensure the development of sport support. It will certainly be a very important department of sports programmes, which will be further divided according to programmes supporting sports activities and support ensuring the restoration and construction of sports infrastructure. Since nothing can be done without a strong IT structure today, an ICT department will be created to provide the Agency's digital infrastructure, IT management of sports programs and electronic registers of athletes, clubs and associations. It will also be controlled by electronic systems ensuring project evaluation and the entire project procedure from the applicant's application to the decision granting the subsidy. Another department will be the Department of Legal and Economic Affairs, which will ensure all necessary legislative and legal matters as well as the keeping of the Agency's accounts, selection procedures, personnel and salary issues, and finally those issues of the Agency's economic governance. The fourth and further future activities of the Agency will be a key trade union, which will evaluate the effects of promoting sport on the sport environment, will analyse the necessary adjustments to the programmes so that money invested in the sport environment from public sources is as effective as possible. This department will also set up a department of statistical and also a department of control of sports programmes. I would very much like the Agency to be able to run from the middle of next year with the fact that it would still work in full cooperation with the Ministry of Education for the rest of 2019. The transitions of employees and the transfer of responsibilities and liabilities would be realized. The estimated final status of the Agency's staff is 80, while 30 employees of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports who carry out the sport agenda today should be gradually transferred to the Agency. The remaining employees will be selected in the selection procedure in accordance with the Civil Service Act or the Labour Code rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that by submitting our proposal, we have not ended our work on introducing a new system of State aid for sport, on the contrary. By submitting this bill, the next stage has begun for us. We are working to create conditions for the creation of a new authority in the field of sport further, so that the transition of the agenda from MŠMT to the new office is as simple, smooth as possible and has no negative impact on the sports environment. We are very well aware of the public's negative view of how to distribute subsidies in sport at present, and we will do everything possible to ensure that public awareness and confidence in the administration and the Chamber of Deputies improve in this regard. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the creation of the bill with their suggestions, comments and proposals at this point. In particular, I thank the representatives of the sports environment, the staff of the Department of Government Legislation and the Ministry of Finance. I thank the representatives of the regional authorities that we had the opportunity to consult them on the bill, as well as those of the municipalities who allowed us to discuss it with the public. I would like to express my special thanks to representatives of the largest roofing organizations - the Czech Union of Sport, the Czech Olympic Committee and the Czech municipality of Sokol. I received their joint letter at the end of September, which they wrote to me in which they write the following - I would like to quote: "Dear Government Agent, following a meeting with you and the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Andrej Babiš, who took place on 16 August 2018 and during which sports organizations and associations had the opportunity to comment on the proposal for an amendment to the Sport Support Act, which you submitted together with other Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Czech Olympic Committee, the Czech Union of Sport and the Czech municipality of Sokol to support this proposal. We strongly hope that changes in the organisation of the state administration, which aims to initiate the amendment, will help Czech sport at all levels, from sport to general public and children to peak. In the development of Czech sport we are always ready to help you. Sincerely Jiří Kejval, Chairman of the Czech Olympic Committee, Miroslav Jansta, Chairman of the Czech Union of Sport, Hana Moučková, Mayor of the Czech Sokol Region." This is where I would like to present the original of this letter. On the basis of all the information and knowledge and facts I have told you here today, allow me to express my deep conviction that the proposal for an amendment to the Sport Support Act is prepared so that it can be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies and approved gradually in all three readings. I'm asking you today to support and approve the first step. I am prepared to discuss our proposal in further readings and accept all the suggestions that will lead to its further improvement. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, on behalf of all the Members who have attached their signature to the proposal, and on behalf of myself, in particular for the reasons I have said, I would like to ask you to release the bill tabled by us into second reading. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u3	Thank you, too. I will remind you that the Government's position has been delivered as House press 241/1. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the role, or I will take the role of rapporteur. I thank Mr Hnilička for the very detailed presentation of the law. I think if he hadn't passed the Sports Act, he would have applied to Cuba as a speaker in terms of the length of that speech. Now, seriously. The role of the rapporteur is, of course, very difficult. We have seen here this morning when the rapporteur came to great pressure from experts on the procedure of Mr Stanjura and Mr Kalousek. So you can see that this is nothing enviable, but yet here I stand to report this law. In the opening words, I focus on purely technical things to describe to you what the law is about, and so on. As rapporteur, then, with priority rights, I will speak with some political commentary. This amendment to the Sport Support Act is more or less introduced by the National Sports Agency. In its essence, it transfers the powers of sport management from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior into the hands of this new agency. Technically, it sets out the authorities of this new agency. It sets out the supervisory authority, which may interest you to know where there would be five members appointed by ministers of education, defence, interior, local development and employee finance and five members of the Chamber of Deputies who would sit in the Supervisory Committee. [[16.50 hours]] The Agency's scope is defined in particular for providing financial support for sport by the state budget, but also for issuing anti-doping rules and programmes and coordinating the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports Departments, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. He also wants to promote sport as an ambition. Other parts of the submitted amendment are also relatively technical and are discussing the transition periods in particular before it goes from the Ministry of Education to this new National Sports Agency. To be honest, everything is at the heart of this novel. In short, it is the creation of this new National Sports Agency. I'm not here to read you the whole reason report, and I'd also be in the business of my previous speaker. So I guess I think this is a good thing from a formal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u5	Thank you. I hereby open a general debate in which I have six applications at the moment. Members of Bartoň and Krejza are the first to be properly enrolled, but I understand that Mr Klaus is applying with priority rights to the debate... [[Mr. Klaus is speaking off the microphone.]] Not yet, okay. In that case, please, Mr Bartona.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I listened to the speech of the suggestor, Mr Hnilička, I would immediately sign some of his thesis. However, I need to deal more with what is written in the draft amendment and what the consequences may be. The National Sports Agency itself, or the National Sports Agency, its origin, why not? Let me say that sport generally stagnates in the Ministry of Education. He's not given the proper attention. It would like to improve many of the processes that are there. The National Sports Agency could ensure this if it was well-run, well-managed, under control and so on. What I can't agree with is how the National Sports Agency is defined in an amendment to the law. I should probably say that if you say sport, I probably see something other than most of the company as a sport. I would say that, under the term "sport," I perceive mostly that people go to sports. Children, young people, amateur athletes in their free time play sports. What most people think of is so called sports fun. Sports fun is simple. You sit on a couch or a beer pub and watch someone else play sports. But in our country, we enjoy the sports entertainment, not the sport itself. However, I will probably say a lot more about this when it comes to the budget. I don't even know any other industry where there's such a large clientelistic system as in sports. And I agree with the petitioner, Mr. Hnilička, and I am helping him in anything where he will try to limit the clientelistic environment, the corruption environment so that every crown of public money he travels to is traceable so as not to be lost somewhere in a black hole, as unfortunately happens now. And by public money, I don't just mean subsidies from the Ministry, I mean public money from the regions, from the municipalities. The proposal has some positives. As one of the positives I would mention, for example, § 6b para. 2 where the petitioners aim to establish clear rules for who will not be granted a subsidy. It is said that we will not support doping, we will not support in any way the entities that are trying to influence the competition. We will not support entities that violate the terms of the subsidy. This is very positive, it has not yet been an extra custom. However, there is missing, and I have already blamed it before, a little bit more effort to demand transparency for all sports subjects, including those who continue to redistribute subsidies. We can't see there anymore. We see from the public money that the money goes to, what a sports organization, but we don't know anymore, we don't see where it's going to go. I am referring directly to sports associations, which are actually a private entity, they are a company and do not have to give any information about how they manage their money, especially with the money they get from public sources. I also see a small plus in that the proposal is in § 6b para. 3, seeks multiannual funding, which I would point out, in the field of sport, where the coach is particularly supposed to take care of his children and not write applications every year and wait a few months for the subsidy to arrive. If this multi-annual funding is particularly intended to finance the activities of those trainers and those body-building unity that take care of amateur sport, I certainly welcome that. They really need to be provided with some background, so they need the money to come on January 1st or January 2nd, not to happen like it happened last year, that some grants for projects, although requested on time, arrived about nine months later. So I welcome multi-annual funding, it is possible, although it does not apply much in our country, it is more common abroad. What I lack on the proposal is the creation of rules for obtaining the subsidy in the Agency itself - although Mr Hnilička mentioned that it was his aim, to have clear and transparent rules and to remove the human factor, which will redistribute it somewhere else, so I also lack some legal framework, so that these clear rules for redistributing subsidies also have those other entities in a row. That means the associations that keep splitting it up. That's where I come across the clientelistic environment. And especially at the lowest level, where once Franta doesn't know Honza, she can slowly say goodbye to the subsidy or any claim from these entities. As a great disadvantage, I see that the National Sports Agency will be the central body of the state administration. It will be completely removed from the government's decision-making process. The government will not influence her, nor will it have any leverage against her chairman. In this I am much in conflict with the petitioners. Frankly, I think that the government should also have a policy in the field of sport, and that policy should be put in place, and the National Sports Agency should implement that policy. But politics is something that should come from the government, something that should be controllable, which should be... It should also answer to the Chamber of Deputies. Now that we want something in sport, we can intersect the minister under which it belongs, but once it's the central body of the state administration, we can't do anything here. This is as if we now want to interpel the Competition Authority or the Radio and Television Council. We can't. So here I see it as a big minus. The President, who is appointed and called off by the government, but, and I have pulled this out, can only be dismissed if he breaks his duties in a particularly rude manner. Here I would warn a lot about it, so according to practice, according to various interpretations it is de facto irrevocable. What's a gross violation of your duties? [[17,00 hours]] I can say it wasn't that long ago when I looked at the former Minister of Education, Mrs Valachová actually resigned from her mandate only on the grounds that one of the sports officials visited her deputy. Am I saying that right? Certainly, through Mr President, I have now turned to my colleague Valachová. Is this a gross violation of the agency president's duties? I don't think so. But as long as it's at the Ministry, yes, we can see that. It is the direct influence of an entity to which subsidies are granted, and this entity tried to lobby directly at the Ministry. Which I see here is that the president of the National Sports Agency would not be affected entirely by this. So this I see that the chairman is actually untouchable, decides on the National Sports Agency, has a budget under him, dictates what the rules will be. From my point of view, in fact, the President of the National Sports Agency will become a sports dictator in our country, who will be unlimited in his work. In particular, the fact that it appoints two of its Vice-Presidents without any tender taking place at all without taking into account any other standard procedures. What's interesting is removing the president from the conflict of interest law. I don't mean to presume, there's probably only one Member who has the ambition to be President of the National Sports Agency, but I would warn that a Member or a Senator should be removed from a conflict of interest in this. As much as I appreciate the petitioner, I would strongly protest that the Member should be the chairman of the National Sports Agency to be in this clear conflict of interest. I also approach this by not knowing who it will be in the future. So I speak in general, and I do a lot of work on how this can be abused. Another thing that is non-standard about this sports agency is the unique supervisory body of the Agency, which will actually consist of five Members, of five representatives of the Government, can be said to mean. And here I would point out again, this is a completely non-standard solution, where we have nothing like it. If anything, so that the supervisory authority is appointed by the Chamber of Deputies, but not by the five Members directly excluded from the conflict of interest law. So I think it is there that if a Member is carrying out surveillance activities somewhere, he does not pay a price for this activity. In this case, that would be the case. What I take as the positive of this proposal is the register and the efforts to digitize it. There's nothing new about the register, which we already have in the Sports Support Act now. He should be running by now, he should be working for six months. We should know for six months now, and we should be digitized, and we should have an idea of what sports sites we have, what clubs we have, who is the coach, how many members are there. We should have an overview of how many are registered in what sport, whether they are duplicated, or whether more are logged in. That should work now. However, I am glad that if the National Sports Agency passes through that it has taken this as its own, precisely through digitalisation it can be easier and easier to allocate subsidies for sport. Because we already know exactly who's playing sports, who deserves a bigger place, or a grant for action at all. We know, we have an overview of where we need a new sports area at all. Depending on who's playing sports, where who's applying. So, I would conclude by saying that I welcome the effort to do something about sport, especially in the field of amateur sport, not sports entertainment, which is unfortunately more important for many people. But I see so many problems in the proposal that it may not even be possible to solve them at second reading. Therefore, and I am likely to sign up for this in a detailed debate, I would like to put forward a proposal for a return to recast, with particular emphasis on removing all exceptions, so that the law on promoting sport is in line with the law on conflict of interest, with the service law. In order to eliminate all non-standardities both in the proceedings and in the control of the Agency. That's very important. And as a crucial point to redefine the fact that the National Sports Agency will be the central body of the state administration. Preferably if she stayed on the level of the ministry. Or if she's not supposed to be in the ministry to stay at government level. So that the government can have responsibility for this agency and we, as a supervisory body to guard the government, so that we can control the government, that it has a sport policy and that it fulfils this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u7	Thank you, too. I would like to point out that there is no detailed debate at first reading, so I am registering your proposal to return to work because the detailed debate is not at first reading. And now, please, there are two factual points, so as first Mr Adamec, then Mr Nacher. Then, with priority rights, Mr Klaus. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will now respond to what my colleague Bartoň said. I agree with him more or less, except for the minor exceptions. I was struck by the sport versus sport and the control of the money at city and county level. I must say that today the cities are the main guarantor of sports financing as such and, of course, the regions also contribute to being fair. But we in the cities today have these systems developed so that we really know about the last crown that goes into sports, whether in investment or in the operation of sports clubs. But why did I make my point? You know, I understand the petitioners who want to deal with the funding of sports after all the trouble we've had here. In fact, it started with the fall of sazka, when actually sports squirrels had their golden chicken stolen. Let's just say that the money went in some way back then, it wasn't ideal, but there was definitely more money in sports than it is now. Today there is weight in villages and regions. But on the other hand, I must say that all good intentions may not lead to a successful end. I think the road to hell is paved with all the good intentions, and this bill kind of seems to me... Don't let the petitioners get mad at me, because when I read the ministries' opinions on this bill, they're not just negative because they're government ministries. And it is de facto a proposal from government MPs. I really do not think that we are able to correct this bill at second reading, to make such good amendments that the law makes sense. I don't think that's how it works. That we all feel that we need to do something about this financing, but this journey in this form seems really very strange to me. I think that the government should take on its funding for sport, the government should present us with a good proposal so that it is in line with European legislation and with all the law of the Czech Republic, so that we do not have to make a ton of adjustments here. [[Attention on time.]] I will also join the motion to return to the recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u9	I also thank you, and I ask you now with Mr Nacher's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to my colleague Bartona, and I see a contradiction there. I wrote it down to be absolutely accurate. He also said, and I agree with him to some extent that the sport environment is the environment where it is the greatest - if he listened to me - the greatest, so to speak, the cluster of clientelism, the most clientelistic environment is around sport. At the same time, however, he identified the president of the future agency as a sports dictator, as I wrote to myself, which I think is too strong an expression, but he said that he was almost irrevocable. [[17.10 hours]] Well, if it's hard to recant, it's a sign of independence for me, because if such a president were to be easily dismissed, he might just be subject to the political pressures and therefore to the clientelism. So either one pays, and I resent the clientelism in the sport, and then I will protect the president of such an agency by being harder or harder to recant, or easily rescindable, and therefore more easily under those clientelistic political pressures. But he can't pay both. So I would quite like to hear, through Mr President, what you are leaning towards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u11	I thank you, and Mr Bartoň will respond with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u12	Thank you. I would have responded to Mr Nacher through you. This is when the President of such an agency is to be removed. I called him a sports dictator, because from the way I see it, he's de facto irrevocable, and it's not said under what conditions the Prime Minister can call him off. As soon as he calls him off... Let me put it this way, Mrs Valachová will forgive me: as soon as he walks into Pelta's door, I can call him off, can't I? That's a simple question. Not according to this law. The moment the Prime Minister does this, the President will, of course, appeal to the court because they have not been fulfilled according to his interpretation of the terms of appeal, we do not know how he will decide the year, in the meantime we already have another President, after a year the court will decide that the conditions of appeal have not been fulfilled, they will return it, we suddenly have two presidents of the National Sports Agency and we are where we were. So it was about when the chairman of the National Sports Agency could be called off and when he didn't. Personally, I'd like him to be at any time, if the Prime Minister decides to do so, when the government that appoints him decides so that she can call him off at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u13	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, please, Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sorry, I didn't get to finish the story in my two minutes. I think there's gonna be a lot of discussions like this today. I said that I was joining the proposal to go back to the recast, just from the title that I understand the efforts of the petitioners, that they want the sport to flourish here in the Czech Republic, and I am not yet, I would say, set up to give a straight motion for rejection. Because I think it would really be right for the government to take over this issue. Let's not take the illusion that we're gonna do this here, fix this place, even get commended for what they think, especially the athletes think it's like we're gonna push it through here at any cost, that it's gonna be okay. I'm warning you. It won't be good. I read the explanatory notes. It's really a dangerous thing. I understand good intentions, but I repeat, good intentions are not enough. It has to be professionally processed. So at this point, I'm just explaining that I'm making a motion for revision, which means to me that it's going to be presented to the government, to the petitioner, and that he's just gonna push through his side to bring this bill in a professional form here in the House plenary so he doesn't embarrass us and into unnecessary discussions so that we can all, with a clean slate, raise our hand. It's a law that I don't think is that much opposition, coalition, we all know it's a problem, we want to solve it, but at this point, don't be mad, it can't be that way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u15	Thank you. I understand you're not suggesting rejection at this point. And now, please, the rapporteur, Klaus, with priority rights, Mr Krejza will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u16	I am of the opinion that two proposals have been put back to the recast, Mr Bartona and Mr Adamec, which also summarized the majority position of our club, as we voted on this Orientally. So I'm not gonna be the third person to suggest going back to rework. You may have noticed that I'm not a very good speaker, but sometimes I am going to amuse you with some short-cut thinking, so I'm going to try it this time. In my opinion, this law was created by the Prime Minister getting angry and saying "do something about the sport" and by his colleague Hnilička. I Hnilička, almost everyone likes Jumbo, including me, honestly, so that's why most people tend to send the law to a second reading, and so on. But that's just not enough. I really think that law is very weak. A few of our colleagues from our club, as well as athletes, wanted to support this for similar reasons. But I don't think that law solves anything that's the problem. I agree with the theories on the crisis of sport and its support, the errors of the whole system. But there's nothing about that. And we're actually introducing a new body to redistribute subsidies. That doesn't sound good for right-wing politics anymore, a plan like that. In fact, there was no pressure to change any particular decree, to meet a subcommittee or a school committee, and to push for a change in the decree or a change in the methodology, etc. These are all normal processes if we want to correct the material things that Members can do. To do such a serious conceptual thing by the law of the parliamentary initiative seems to me that it is not okay, and I fully agree with my previous speaker, Mr Adamec. This is indeed a matter for the government to present. We have key questions here: how much money do we want to put in this sport? It's a serious question. The answer is not infinity. How exactly are we going to put them there? How specifically do we provide money for children's and youth's coaches? One of the key things. What sports do we want to support, and according to what criteria? These are all serious questions, conceptual issues, and I don't see them anywhere in this bill. All I see is the agency proposal. And besides, I'm sorry, I'm always going to vote against this kind of law, because we're deciding on taxes, and this country is to be ruled by the government with pardon. If you want to promote sport, I agree, I love sports too, I'm still racing some of those grandfather cycling races, so do the Ministry of Sport. That's normal. It's my minister, he's an elected MP, he's mostly from the Chamber of Deputies, he's on the job, he's being followed by journalists, he's being cursed, we're intersecting him. And this organ has to work harder. The idea that we're gonna create another agency that we're gonna vote for on Wednesday at 12:30, and I've got a text coming up: we're gonna vote for a Kolohnát or a Vomáčka... In this way... I mean, those guys, the good Mr. Hnilička isn't gonna be there forever, there's gonna be someone else in five years. And there will be an agency that will not be under public control. It will live its own life, there will be five Members, once a year a control report will come to the House Committee on 40 pages, each sixth Member will open it at least, ask one stupid question and then approve 8 billion. It's approved, over. In that normal world, those ministries have to work, they have to work properly, they're under control. This is how the world is founded. I simply reject the creation of other agencies and other agencies, such an addict of independence, because that cancels any public control. Pirates would call it transparency maybe, I don't know, but the system is supposed to work from top to bottom. These are roughly the main questions why I cannot support this type of law, and I have also repeatedly told the translator, so I apologize to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Vondrák, then Mr Hnilička. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have had my point about what was said here a moment ago, because I am a former athlete, and today I am a former scientist, and I think that we have solved the problem of transparent distribution through agencies in the field of science. We have two, it is the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, we have a Technology Agency of the Czech Republic that works for this purpose to really shade the distribution of funds from the influence and decision-making of politicians. And I think it works fine. And I think the analogy with the sports agency or sports agency isn't bad at all, because I think the main objective of such an agency is to find a way to distribute the funds. I think that's a way that's secure and transparent. Just as we control the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic and the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic here in Parliament, we can, of course, control such an agency for sport transparently. That's why I like the idea. I understand that making such a law out of clean water on a green meadow is not easy, but I would still like to encourage further development of this law here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u19	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Hnilička, Mr Rais will be prepared - with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u20	Thank you. I would only react briefly to my previous speakers. As far as the subcommittee is concerned, we consulted there twice, we discussed the amendment there, and one of the topics that I should not be too long was the position of chairman. It was said that stability was important for us in the position of chairman, so that he would not be changed politically either with the new government or under any political conditions. Therefore, this topic sounded very strongly there and we agreed that yes, we want to create a strong position, but the position for me was finally created as standard. I would like to quote: "The President shall be dismissed if he has violated his obligations arising from his duties in a particularly gross manner. " I think that might be enough. "Or if he is unable to carry out his duties for six months." That's probably my reaction to that. I would like to say that we certainly did not pull the novel out of our pocket, but we acted on the subcommittee for sport twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u21	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Rais. Mr Klaus will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u22	Thank you. Have a good day. We've been talking about GAČR and TAČR agencies. There is also a National Accreditation Agency within the Ministry of Education, which may be giving more important things than money. It basically allows thousands, tens of thousands of university people to function to perform their duties. I'm talking about it because the management model of the agency is basically... I don't want to say copy it, but use it. In fact, in the debate, I did not hear anything specific, i.e. in the area of criticism, that it is a question of the rebuttal and irrevocableness of the management of the Agency. That is what I think all the things that have been going on here are essentially in the subcommittee and in the school committee to be dealt with further. So I don't think there's any reason to cut it in public, but it's better to move it forward and discuss it there at second reading. Because I remember something here, too, so in the last four years, I remember doing the Science and Research Agency, and I wouldn't want to bring that up. I mean, there's a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u23	Thank you, too. I would like to point out that we are only at the beginning of the debate. Please, Mr Klaus, Mr Vácha will be prepared with due cause.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u24	I will use a factual remark on what it serves, a response to my previous speakers. First of all, Mr Rais. I therefore sincerely believe that the National Accreditation Agency is a deterrent to the independence of the Agency in the environment of Czech education. It's got 81 colleges. I'd always defend the idea that it's supposed to be one union at the Ministry. I have written it repeatedly, and even for the reign of Secretary Valachová, where no one can suspect that I have any power sympathy for who should decide. The state really has to be simple, be simple. Second thing. I will respond to Mr Vondrák. Let's get this money out of the hands of the politicians. Again, I disagree. That's people's money, taxpayers' money. We represent them here now. We can call it pejorative politicians, but here the bill also introduces that there are five members in the institutions appointed by the Minister of Education, Defence, Interior and so on and five Members. They're also politicians in some way, except it's ten times more complicated. The normal thing is that the government works, the parliament controls it, criticizes it, the minister controls his respective unions, and they do conceptual work, they do it for years, these people are interchangeable, there is political will. Indeed, this law is meant to be a government law, not a parliamentary initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u25	Thank you, too. Mr. Vácha, please. Mr. Rais will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u26	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to my colleague Rais, both fellow academics. I would not compare this agency with GAČR and TAČR agencies. After all, the most excellent projects go to the science agencies. Those scientists have to write the project, defend it, have to have some previous results and so on. Whereas this agency is not only going to be on top sports, it's going to be on the bottom level. They'll be handing out money to different clubs where there'll be twenty-three kids, and they'll want to buy a mat, and they'll have to run the club regularly every year, and the money will go mainly to their activities, to pay for some coach. So the comparison between the GAČR, TAČR and this agency isn't quite right, I think. As far as the accreditation agency is concerned, we already have the National Accreditation Authority, which is separated from the Ministry of Education, so the comparison is already limping there. Then maybe I'll turn myself in for another complaint. Only since I'm here, I would agree with virtually all the complaints that have been said here by all the previous speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Rais. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u28	Thank you. As far as my colleague Klaus is concerned, he basically presented an exact discussion here that can take place somewhere on a committee or subcommittee, whether there should be five politicians on the board of directors or four or six. That's exactly the space to talk about it. As far as my colleague Vácha is concerned, we may have misunderstood each other. I'd be more specific. Of course, I was concerned with the formal structure of the Agency's construction, and I was not concerned with the processes that would take place inside. I am one of the supporters of the fact that I think that the National Accreditation Agency was a step in the right direction, because it actually brought a much greater degree of freedom for universities than it was last time. Of course, responsibility is also involved with that freedom; it must behave adequately, far more responsibly than before, when there was a central authority. And speaking of philosophical steps, this is consistent with a liberal approach so that management goes down and isn't decided down somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u29	Good evening. Technical from the scene. Please. It's a real point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u30	Thank you. If no one's logged in. I could have come to you and said it, but I want it on the record. Those control mechanisms in grant agencies, those people who are in the audit bodies of grant agencies, are chosen from experts and are approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Whereas the new agency's supervisory authority here will be purely under the authority of the coalition. Representatives from the ministries will be there and representatives from the Members will be there. There will be five Members, but those Members will be named by the Chamber of Deputies and, of course, the Chamber of Deputies can only name members from the coalition, they can name members from the opposition, but they will always be majority under government or coalition, I don't want to say, forces, Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u31	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Milan Hnilička is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u32	I would like to respond to my previous speaker through the President, Mr Vácha. The audit authority is a little bit extra, because as far as I know, we have the SAO and the Ministry of Finance, which will primarily be controlled by this authority. Therefore, it was the will of the petitioners to give it even more weight so that transparent decisions on subsidies and on all of us's money would be strengthened. That was the point. If we in committees, subcommittees, if we go through the first reading, we decide to cancel or simply adjust this body, that's where we can do it. Of course, it's living material. [[17.30 hours]] I think it is also necessary to perceive this, and that is why I have appointed the large organisations that this agency is made for sports environments. For them, we allocate the money. It's a novel about sports promotion, not sports restrictions. And these organizations have made it clear, so let's get back to the point. This agency is an offer for the sports environment so that we can develop to create conditions for them so that we can all sport so that our children can start to sport more. And these details that we're talking about here, let's talk about in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have two applications for factual notes here. The first is Mr. Vácha. Mr Ivo Vondrák will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u34	Thanks for the word. Of course, I support it, and I think everyone here has said that there should be some change in the financing of sport. But just as my colleague Bartoň said here, and I think that even colleagues from ODS, at the time it will be an agency, the distribution of the current CZK 6 billion will simply be in power or in the hands of a few chosen people, will be controlled by some supervisory body, which will name the House and ministers. And we, who will approve the state budget, will have no control over the six billion. I'm not illusioning ourselves that we have control over funds that flow to the ministry, for example, no. But we can still interpel these ministers, we can go to them, we can somehow drag them through the media. Well, then, of course, we could have the Prime Minister, too. But after all, the mechanism for controlling the Ministry and some government agencies at the level of the Chamber of Deputies is diametrically different from when it will be the Ministry and when it will be the agency. And these are the details that maybe we should talk about on the committee, or, as the previous speakers have suggested, the plaintiff should be talking about them with the government, or if it were to be processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u35	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u36	So let's make this brief. I think that the task of these agencies is to make a selection of the entities to which we then grant the subsidy funds, financial support. So I would be asking you to defend the concept of excellence, just as I would defend this notion of grant science agencies, where it is also not always about excellence, but it is always about some relevance where we want to put the money, for what purpose. But it's not the point of having this debate here. I think that's what committees are for. But that's why I want us to move this to those committees so we can start talking about it. So that's my last point. Let's actually put this in the expert discussion so that it can happen in some way, because I think that right now the money for sport is being distributed to me in an unknown way. And we always have a big problem on the edge every year, who we're supposed to give the money to, based on what criteria. This is an extremely complicated process. And I'm just gonna be happy if something like that, like a sports agency, helps me do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u37	Thank you. Mr Milan Hnilička with a point of fact. And Mr. Václav Klaus will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u38	I'm sorry. I didn't really want to perform tonight. But to the control. That's absolutely essential. And I read here in my speech, in one year, I'm not going to name it, there's been a check, two checks of $15 million out of $3 billion. And that was at the Ministry. So what kind of control are we talking about having control over this? That's one of the reasons we're here. Otherwise, maybe we didn't have anything to talk about. And that was before the fundraiser. Therefore, let us not talk about the fact that until now the Chamber of Deputies has had control over how subsidies are redistributed into sport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u39	Thank you. Mr. Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u40	I will speak to Mr Vondrák's previous speaker, to his appeal: get it on the committees and there you will be professionally involved. Like what, for God's sake? Like whether there'll be five Members or four in that supervisory body? Or is the Minister of Agriculture going to appoint another member? There's nothing professional about it! This is a purely technical amendment to the formation of a state body and some statutes that it has a president and vice-chairman. That's the first point. And second point. For me, money flows into sports in an unknown way. And here in this amendment, did you learn anything about how money flows? There's not a word about it. The law isn't about that at all. So I'm a little backstabbing against these argument fouls. So let's talk about whether it makes sense for the government not to have ministries and more and more agencies to be created. I'll take this debate, I understand someone's got a different opinion. But let's not talk about sports affairs or anything, because this law isn't about sports affairs. This law is about the creation of the National Agency for Sport, which takes over the sport of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and partly the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. So let's actually have a really specific debate, and let's not throw the things that aren't in this law. They should be there eventually. But they're not there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u41	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ivo Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u42	To be clear to the previous speaker, I mean, this law defines how to create an instrument that will distribute the funds. That's the point. So please, let's not use the concept of manipulation here simply. Let's act a little classy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u43	Thank you. And now we are going back to the general debate. Mr Karel Krejza has the floor. Mr Jakub Janda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Although I am not an Olympic winner as one of the law's promoters, I have not won a World Cup like Jakub Janda, who will speak to me. But I've spent 12 years promoting sport at community level. It's from public funds, and the issue is really not simple. It's not. In my opinion, it is not possible to create completely transparent or virtually. clear rules to rule out the human factor. I just can't. I can't imagine. I didn't invent it. I don't think anybody came up with it. See ya. Because if there was such a suggestion, as I agreed with all my previous speakers, we would probably agree and we would have voted unanimously, everything would be ideal, but unfortunately, that is not going to happen. I didn't feel like I totally disagreed with any of my previous speakers' arguments. But my conclusion is different. I'm used to taking risks. Sports support is important to me. And we all know that sports funding needs to be changed. I don't think it's possible to put the rules into law. I Klausn't know if he's capable of putting it into the law. I don't think so, even though I'm not legislative. Just what we're talking about. Sport creates about 2.7 % from the performance of our economy, 5 % makes Škoda Auto. This is really like a large share of GDP. When we count the multiplier effects, it is CZK 300 billion in performances and CZK 65 billion in revenue to public budgets. Those are huge numbers. I'd be happy to support the establishment of the Ministry of Sport. But unfortunately, that's not how the situation stands today. [[17.40 hours]] I think that the criticism of this law is justified, or the current proposal that we have here is justified. We're gonna need a lot of work on him. But I've decided that if I don't pass the motion to return to work, I will personally support this proposal for second reading, perhaps against most of my club, but I do so because I appreciate all the people, volunteers, whose work we can estimate up to 20 billion. each year, who enter the sport. And I did it myself, I bought a lot of jerseys for kids, etc. etc. and maybe many of you, so you know what this is all about. And the support from the state is insufficient, and even though there were arguments like right-wing solutions, unfortunately, I don't know any right-wing solutions here. So I'm gonna back it up for second reading, and I'm gonna hope that we get to a better proposal together, and I think the petitioner promised me that, and I'm assuming he'll keep his word if he's listening to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u45	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Patrik Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank my predecessor for the words, kind words, but I would still like to respond to what was said before, because I feel like we're painting a round square here. We all agree that something needs to be done about financing sports, yes, I can see that you nod your heads, yes, and when something's proposed, it's said it's not the same. When the agency proposes, I hear here that it would be good for us to come directly with the Ministry. I can imagine, I don't know, if we came with the Ministry, someone would come, why we're here with the Ministry, why we're here with the fly tank, that an agency would be enough. In other words, I have a feeling, and I would just follow up on a fellow speaker who, even if he is from the opposition, supported it, so let's look for what's positive in this and not what's not in it. Because we always find it there. Whoever's a fan of the new ministry, we get one vote and lose two because we say, we're creating a whole new office here. This is the agency. That means, let's really not paint a round square, but let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u47	Thank you. Back to the general debate. Mr Jakub Janda, Mr Jan Bauer will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Sport Support Act de facto reflects the current state, level, position and its grip on public administration. It can be said that sport is simply a kind of cinderella among the agendas administered by the government, a kind of unwanted testament at the Ministry of Education, a kind of bitter subject. Unlike the past, however, it has at least its position in such important documents as the Government's programming declaration. Although it is vaguely described how to deal with the sports agenda or how to actually take it from the point of view of government or public administration in general, what priorities it should have or how to view it from a holistic point of view as a system, it has its place there and thanks for that. Before I start discussing the factual and technical part of it, and also before many of you stop listening to this speech, let me tell you why we should be very careful when discussing such a fundamental point as this amendment. In contrast to many other agendas, there is no other legislative regulation other than international conventions and the Act on the Protection of Olympic Symbolics. And let me also mention in this context a few basic tasks that sport in our society has and for which we are to pay sufficient attention to sport as such. Our ancestors already realized this, the Members of all the Houses of the First Republic, even the then Austro-Hungarian Reich Council, only we partially forgot and resigned. Our first republic was founded on sport, but at that time the falcon called it not sport, but physical culture. Well, then. Sport is a fundamental pillar of interpersonal relations. Sport was and is a significant part of civil and federal life. Community life in municipalities and cities keeps our society healthy and is one of the tools of socialization of man, the development of relations between people and, above all, the instrument by which we raise children to healthy competition or social activity. The creation of life's friendship often happens through or through sports. Sport teaches us teamwork, cooperation and responsibility to the whole, to ourselves, to our loved ones, to our friends, to society. Sport brings out all the healthy things our society has come up with, and moral and social values often develop on these healthy foundations. Socio-pathological phenomena, such as exclusion from society, civil passivity and atomization of our society, are often the result of the fact that interpersonal relations in our society do not work. Sport is the best drug prevention ever. Just remember the endless debates on the House floor, whether in plenary or at conferences, round tables, how important this current topic is. We deal with consequences and repression, but it is the sport that is the most effective and best prevention. Sport has an absolutely inconsequential effect on health. How much has been saved by public health money because of the prevention of civilization diseases and diseases due to sports. I know a lot of you are gonna say that as much as it cost to plaster broken bones in sports, but the financial difference between busted rib from basketball and lung cancer from smoking is pretty big, if ever comparable. However, let us not deny that fitness, whether physical or mental, is the basis for personal satisfaction. A satisfied person usually leads quality life and quality life is the basis of personal happiness. A strong person has proven to be less ill, more resistance and, mostly, higher work performance, which are important indicators of quality of life at all, as well as indicators of economic and economic nature. Sport is also the best export article in the Czech Republic. And it's not just about Czech representation. It's about upbringing, self-confident and self-confident personalities that we raise to patriotism and patriotism. I could go on, but I don't think that if you weren't convinced by these arguments either, you wouldn't be convinced by my views on this bill. However, I will not be uncritical about this proposal. I frankly say that this amendment will not bring anything essential to turn Czech sport into ruins, and that will finally make it so-called. They moved the ice, and at least not in the real sports reality of small clubs and teams. But what this amendment brings is at least an attempt to change. An ambitious attempt that could be the basis for a wider change that Czech sport so much and so badly needs. An attempt that wants to introduce so much stability, effective and independent support for sport. An attempt to introduce a real and systemic solution to ambition. Yes, sport needs a system. The system, and especially the one that is well set, is an alpha and an omega of success, an alpha and an omega of operation of the sports environment, an alpha and an omega to limit non-transparency. The system, which would set up some ongoing experiment or habit in sport, will significantly contribute to the return of sport and the Czech Republic among the drivers, among the leaders. The setting up of the sport system is an alpha and an omega to stop watching on TV constantly stealing public money by sports squirrels and constant cases that reflect the sports environment at the highest levels. To stop looking at the fact that children in Upper Lhota are not dumped while in Lower Lhota they have heated seats on the playground, even though there is no football club. So we don't build sports halls unless someone wins the Olympics. To stop subsidizing rauts and champagne to politicians. To see our children play sports, perhaps just for joy, and to be able to train them as well. [[17.50 hours]] The reason why I am talking about these things and why we are looking at these things is because it is a very small political courage to set up the system, or at least to think about it continuously. Instead of political courage to negotiate with sports unions and to present a sophisticated law, we have only experienced stageization. Of course, sports unions and other institutions will always protest and remind you of any attempt to set up the system, because the system will usually not be fair. We will never set up a fair system in sport. He just doesn't exist. Every deputy who has ever had a sport in gesca, whether at the level of the municipality, the region or the ministry, knows this. Every member of any sports committee or committee knows that. There is no way to split money fairly in sport. There will always be someone who will promote mass sports rather than the small ones, or, on the contrary, someone who will promote an even distribution of all sports. But back to that stage. The constant stageization tried by the previous governments is the initial and fundamental mistake that has become in our legislation. Even when the first sports legislation was introduced, it was retreated because the sports environment was at all pleased that they would at least receive a law on promoting sport instead of a standard law on sport, or some other legal framework that would at least partly follow up on earlier laws on the organisation of physical education. However, let us be aware that the Sport Support Act was purely intended to legalise the flow of public finances into sport. That's where it starts and that's where it ends. This law had nothing to do but legalize public money used for the body. But since then, no minister has found enough political courage to openly say that sport is a mess, and will deal with it conceptually, systemically. I'll be fair. Trials were. But they have always ended up a terrible failure, especially because they never found a listener in the government or here in the House. Perhaps this is due to the fact that sport is competently under the Ministry of Education, which is in itself a troubled resort, and no minister wanted to make so much effort for such a marginality as sport, which nobody in the House would appreciate anyway. And still, as it happens, he'd get scolded for it. And when the minister who had the courage was found, he remained in his position, as is customary among the ministers of education, for only a few months. However, back to the matter. We have here a law on promoting sport, the purpose of which is to legalise public money resulting in sports activities. We have here the Act on the Protection of Olympic Symbolics and then several international conventions. Coincidentally, there is also one on the agenda of this meeting concerning doping, which brings together some kind of legislative framework to govern this huge sport environment. Does that really seem like a sufficient public authority to you? Does this really seem like enough legal background for a sports environment to you? Let us compare the framework of legislation for such a culture, which has a separate ministry with the size of the cultural environment. Is that really comparable? That he needs a separate law on sports, everyone says, apart from politicians, experts and sports unions, and maybe even athletes themselves. But instead of sitting at the table and starting to think from A to Z, we're constantly amending. One day, we'll stick sports records to this law. One mandatory municipal and regional concepts. Next year, it could be a performance sport. After the next six months, the sports doctors will be back. There's chaos that doesn't suit anybody at all, but we're looking at how we've solved the problem, and we're still getting our hands on it. By the way, those famous sports registers, which are supposed to work after the last amendment of this law for two years, do not work surprisingly. Half the municipalities that have been assigned to develop the concept of sport development have not, at least in the best case...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u49	Yes. I'd like to keep the news desk quiet. Thank you very much for giving the honourable Member the opportunity to complete his contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u50	Thank you, Mr President. In the worse village or town they commissioned this concept to be developed by an agency, the mayor of the concept smeared from the mail envelope and hid somewhere deep into the drawer. Half of the counties made Ctrl+C and Ctrl+V, and it has a concept of journalism. Honor for municipalities, cities and regions who have taken all responsibility to prepare a sporting concept and have considered at least the basic pillars of which sport should be taken, what conditions sport needs and what they intend to do and when. There aren't many of them. Why is that all of this? Because no one checks it. The twenty officials who are suffering from the Ministry of Education are barely able to account for and manage subsidies, let alone to check any obligations arising from the amendment to the Sport Support Act, especially two years old. I don't even talk about anyone thinking about a strategy, if not a sports policy, about solving the performance problem of representation or the problems of getting the kids back to sport. It simply has no one to do it, which is a problem of about 122 Czech sports. Then there are such cases where sports officials come a week before the Olympics to see the Minister of Education and hysterically in front of cameras and microphones shout that the Olympics are in danger and that athletes will not leave and that this will be an international disgrace. And an incompetent politician, the Minister of Education at that time, takes a few tens of millions that could have been intended for children, and sends them to officials in turn to avoid embarrassment. Sports officials are laughing, athletes themselves are murmuring, and politicians are being swept away by the police and the media. Why am I saying all this? Because sports are connected vessels, and if there was that system that I was talking about right at the beginning of my speech, and that's what this proposal is trying to do, there couldn't be a problem. And that's not all. How do we want to achieve, for example, the results of our representation when athletes today have the status of military cleaners? Their cost of work is therefore somewhere at the level of the summer strawberry picking brigade in England, while being a top athlete with proper preparation. Some institute or anchoring what is called a professional athlete does not exist at all today. Today, professional athletes are businessmen whose accountants get their hair up in terror when they count their income. To make matters worse, we'll add an EET to their wounds. Now, I'm gonna talk about absurdity, but I'd really like to see a football player who's gonna put a receipt on the cash register during the rotation, or a skier who's gonna go through the finish line and sign the ticket. How do we want to attract children to sport if we don't have enough coaches, and rather coaches who would motivate children to play sports? And all the more so when gym class in schools is usually an unpopular subject. So how are we going to get coaches and high-quality gym instructors if we don't have conditions for them? We must enable coaches to become gym instructors and, on the contrary, develop their pedagogical and physical potential, make them quality educators and provide them with such conditions as to satisfy themselves and motivate children to sport. We need to allow the athletes a dual career so that our children have anybody to train. So that professional athletes can train our children after finishing their careers and not go somewhere to work, like the fabric. We are losing immense human wealth. I'm deliberately not talking about sports amateur, sports performance, sports handicapped or the sport of seniors. Sport just needs a system. We need a clearly defined sport strategy at the level of policy, which will determine direction, philosophy and priorities. He needs concept and integrity. It needs clear boundaries in which it can move. This amendment does not bring it entirely. This amendment does not sufficiently stress the importance of setting sport policy as such in some form of a sophisticated document or strategy that would fully set philosophy, where and what means the Czech sport will continue to take. A sports policy with which sports associations and sports environments would be identified at all, on which they could rely on their future development and know what to expect in the coming years, and which would be followed by a traditional plan that would describe specific priorities instead of existing government floscules and show the means by which they will be implemented, without administrative parameters and empty sentences. [[18.00 hours]] This amendment vaguely defines the emergence of a new office, an agency with unclear competence, unclear structure, a very unstandard management system, unclear obligations and unclear rights. Most importantly, however, it is not clear by whom, by what and how it will be controlled, what feedback mechanisms will be, what safeguards will be, that it will carry out its tasks, how its questions will be dealt with. The amendment in the paragraphs describes the emergence of a presidential post, which will be the hand of unlimited and hard rule over the new office. Not that Czech sport doesn't need it, but we are still in a legal and democratic state where there must be control. In this case, too, and in particular, opposition control. Especially in institutions where a government appointment takes place. We cannot allow a situation in which the opposition will not be able to influence and control the state apparatus. Nor does the President of the new agency de facto have clear powers and powers. Acting on behalf of the agency on the outside, chairing who? Who could possibly be the chairman of the agency? Anyone who's gonna like the Prime Minister right now? How will he perform his duties properly and must he perform it properly at all? What will guarantee that the function will be carried out in accordance with a sports strategy or policy? These are all unanswered questions. The proposed amendment clearly lacks the anchoring that the President of the Agency must submit his strategic documents for approval. In my opinion, it is also imperative that the President or at least a representative of the Agency should attend when the House authority requests the presence of the President or a representative of the Agency at its meeting. The amendment also vaguely gives rise to presidencys, again without defining what the Vice-Presidents are for, to what extent they will represent the President of the Agency. Again, it is also unclear who can become Vice-President of the Agency. And I certainly wouldn't want the sport policy to be determined by an ex-Liberian coach, for example, I have nothing against the Liberijec. On the contrary, in the composition with the President, the Vice-Presidents should form some top body of the Agency, which has the fundamental decision-making power... [[Silence because of the noise in the O.R.]] -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u51	I'd like my esteemed colleagues to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u52	Thank you. Who has the crucial decision-making power in the creation of sports policy and is the wise collegiate who considers the Czech Republic's professional and independent sports priorities. It is also not clear with the Vice-Presidents what they will have a long term of office. The current situation in which they are both appointed may be considered inappropriate. At least one of them should be elected, for example, by the House. It is precisely the top body of the Agency that should decide on the most important issues such as approval and submission by the Government of Action Sports Plans, draft budget and final account, annual report, draft organisational structure or rules of action and financing of resort centres. The novel doesn't answer or count on it all again. In fact, it is not even clear what its legal status will be in terms of public administration. It's gonna be the central body of the state administration, isn't it? Nor is it clear whether the Agency will address the initiatives of the House or the Senate and their institutions. And if so, who will be responsible for their execution, how and when. This amendment vaguely predicts that it will coordinate not only the resort centers, but also the anti-doping center. Resort sports centers are a big and unanswered problem of Czech sport. Interfering with this agenda is a very ambitious step that I welcome, but must be clearly and intelligibly presented, discussed and accepted by all parties. This amendment accurately defines how the sports register will work and how it will be managed, supplemented and updated with the information in it. It's not clear who they're gonna be managing, who's gonna put data in them, what happens if no one does. The designers seem to expect sports clubs to do it, so the already administratively burdened clubs, based primarily on voluntary work, will force them to paper again and again, and thus pass on additional burdens to them. At a time of digitization, when these things should be eliminated as much as possible. This amendment resets the flow of finance and the whole way of financing sport, introduces some steps and mechanisms and returns to a practice that has been completely abandoned in the past. I think I was critical of the amendment proposal. But these are all things that we can complete and change. They're not things that, as they say, didn't take the train. These are partial matters which may be changed by amendments. For many of you, this can and will be all the arguments for which we should throw this amendment off the table. But let us be constructive for a moment. Really constructive. This is the opportunity. The amendment is not perfect, it is not ideal and from my point of view it is not finished. Despite all this, I would love to give her a chance. Because he has ambition. He comes up with something that is not partial but complex, and at least in a partial way he tries to solve problems of Czech sport. They try to stabilise, try to demolish the negative phenomena that accompany the sport, try to self-reliant and independent but effective control of finance. In short, he has an ambition that's right. I myself was an athlete, I'm an athlete, and I've always tried to be honest. I believe in the word and handshake. I also perceive Milan Hnilička, who presented this novel. After all, we have been dealing with him for several months and weeks, and I have no doubt that he will work on many of the topics that I have mentioned here. There's gonna be a lot of work to do on this novel. Maybe even a great deal of work. There's gonna be a lot of compromises. I have already prepared several amendments myself, and I have already discussed dozens of them with the translators. Please give this novel a chance. Let's work on it, let's work on it together. Let us show that just as sports are teamwork with team spirit, this novel will also be teamwork with team spirit, on which all work equally for good cause and for good result of Czech sport. Ladies and gentlemen, I know I've been a little longer today. However, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u53	Thank you. Before I make a factual comment to Mr Jan Birke, I will read the apologies. From 18 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes for personal reasons, Minister Adam Vojtěch from today's meeting from 18 o'clock to the end of the day and Mr Richter 18 o'clock to the end of the working day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u54	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Jand for his precise and correct description of the situation of sport in the Czech Republic. I think it was very consistent with the introductory very detailed presentation of the novel about the agency from the mouth and the pen of Milan Hnilička, by your means. Let me - I mean, when I was doing sports, it was the end of World War II, so today I'm just the one who gives money for the sport in the role of mayor. I just want to ask, and I think it sounds here, and I don't want to convince the convinced, and I don't want to convince the unconvinced, but only really three or four sentences to the intention. I wouldn't want us to kill that intention, with the negation of everything being wrong. I think we can all agree that a very good and important debate has started, because if the union we have in all the cities, or the club, the sports club, doesn't get the money from the Ministry, then he doesn't get it from the county, and then he has the last resort, and then he just has the city. And if he doesn't get it from the city, then it's just the parents who put some money into it. Maybe I skipped someone and maybe I didn't mention someone. [[18.10 hours]] On the other hand, that is why I am, and perhaps just like my previous speaker, Janda, on the very hand, and because I appreciate Milan Hnilička by means of you, as a former hockey stick, and I think he's keeping his word. And if we're ready to open it up and start debating it, I think we can come to a situation where something needs to be done about sport. It's not real, it's not left-handed, but it needs to be resolved, 'cause it just can't go on like this. Thank you and I apologize for filling out the whole limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u55	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time to a point of fact and returning to the general debate. Mr Jan Bauer will be given the floor, Mr Ivo pojezdný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also grown up and still live in a sports environment, so I will allow myself not to be primarily critical, because this really does not deserve Czech sport, but I would like to begin by saying perhaps a little weird or astonishment, because it is evident that at the beginning of the discussion a government MP, coincidentally in one person a government agent, with a relatively steep and harsh criticism of the conditions at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which took place there in recent years, including under the rule of his own party, mainly under the leadership of the current coalition partner. And I confess, I have now seen that the Minister has left, that I have not heard yet - the current Minister of Education, Youth and Sports is not yet silent and does not express itself, so the former Minister does not speak or remain silent. Because the words that have been said here, I don't think it would please any minister who is responsible and who has heard the words that have been said here. It's logical. I would be interested in the opinion of the current Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, who is so far silent, and we are preparing here to cut off about one third of the Ministry's body and probably only the Ministry of Education and Youth will remain. I hope there won't be a proposal for the Ministry of Education to leave in the future, then perhaps only the Ministry of Youth would be left. But what I'm interested in is his opinion of what he thinks about all this. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I am very interested in sports and my colleagues, who are members of the sports subcommittee, regularly ask what is new. I have always done my part at the beginning of this parliamentary term to read the January 2018 programming declaration -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u57	Please, I'll cut you off. I would ask all Members if they have something important to deal with in the foyer, because no one is comfortable talking to the humming hall. Thank you very much. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I took the job and at the beginning of this parliamentary term, when the government was developing without confidence, I read the programming statement and I have to say that unfortunately to my surprise poor sport ended up at the last, 34th place of the entire list, on the last page, and for a year I waited what was new, as a big fan of sports. And I completely agree with what Mr. Milan Hnilička said here at the beginning that the current sport has many successes, but also has many problems, that it is worth our attention. I've been waiting a year to see if we can come up with anything new. Then came the second programming statement of the government, which I also read in that chapter of the sport, is in the last place, on the nice page number 40, where one chapter deals with it, and during that year nothing really happened, and even my colleagues in South Bohemia, because I am mainly involved in rural sport, they always asked when the big words will finally come and they will start to realize the big bang that will come to promote sport, because in both of these two programming statements it is written that they will significantly increase funding for sport. I've been waiting for a year, so I'm more of a rhetorical question: is it going to happen, is it going to happen? A new law on promoting sport is to be prepared. I've been waiting for a year. It will be, won't it be? Is there gonna be a new one? It's been a year. We will prepare multiannual financial plans - which is a big problem of financing sport, because everything is just going seriously to one fiscal year. It's gonna happen, isn't it gonna happen? Support for direct distribution of money directly to sports clubs, physical unity, unions, etc. Is this happening during that year? You're doing it, aren't you? I know some things are happening, and I believe the translator will answer me. Greater involvement of experts in all areas of sport - I don't know if the situation has improved or not. Support for training centres, which is simply a painful place for Czech sport, again if there can be any mention here. Money from the state budget for major international sporting events, different from what was done in the past. Again, I wonder if anything has changed. Among other things, in cooperation with the municipalities and with the regions, we will prepare funds to invest, in my opinion, significantly underfunded infrastructure for Czech sports areas. So for that reason, no matter why the petitioner is not angry with me, I do not accept his sincere opinion that he wants to do something about Czech sport, but during that year of waiting for concrete results, what I expected is that there is an MP's proposal signed by 51 Members, which, among other things, is that it is noted that at the previous and current Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports it was done strangely. MSMT, keep your hands off the money, you can't do it. This distribution of money will be done in a different way, and for this reason we come up with an agency where it will be done in a completely different and more transparent way. I want to believe that, of course. That is why I have read the explanatory report and not as an opposition politician, but as a person who really cares about what is at the heart of the proposal, I wanted to draw up some arguments that will commend the proposal and which may be critical of the proposal. And when I read the explanatory memorandum, and it has been heard here several times today, I must admit that neither the government where this proposal came from, because, of course, the government's agent is to be directly subordinate to the Prime Minister, did not support this proposal, gave a neutral position, and you will find three pages questioning comments. And the more you get into it, the more question marks and the more questions appear. bohužel, I say unfortunately. Words such as nonsystemic, government lacks, government recommends to consider, it is inappropriate, it is atypical, it is necessary to clarify, it is necessary to elaborate, the proposal does not reflect, it does not consider the government to be the same, it is not obvious - this is what the text looks like within the government's neutral opinion. Perhaps, before I speak, the current Minister of Education, Youth and Sports will arrive, and he will tell us if he cares that one third of the body of his ministry - probably this proposal will receive support - will leave his ministry. So I'm interested in his opinion. Minister, I ask you very much through the President if you could comment on this. But the opinions of other ministries as contact ministries, such as MŠMT, Ministry of Finance, Defence, Justice, Homeland, not to mention the ÚOHS, which even gave a dissenting opinion, so once again on this proposal, where I expected support as an opposition Member, you will read the words as a proposal does not reflect, it is controversial, it is problematic, it brings uncertainty, it does not solve, it is not clear, it needs to be worked out, it does not respect, it is not reasonable, it is not acceptable, it does not agree, it gives an impression - in this way, the Ministry controlled either by the parties or by the party where the petitioner of this proposal comes, it is not clear, it does not need to be worked out, it does not respect, it is not reasonable, it does not agree, it creates an impression - it is thus directed by the party or by the party from which the petitioner of this proposal comes, it is expressed to the work that he has shown here. And now for the complete conclusion. I would not want to be the one who breaks good thoughts and good ideas really do something about Czech sport, but I feel that what we have here now is not a draft law, but it is more like a substantive bill, which, of course, runs by some commentary procedure after all ministries, and in my opinion, given the criticism, not from my side or from the opposition, but criticism from my own ranks is practically incomplete and it is not worthy of us to vote on it because it really requires significant work. Therefore, in conclusion, I would first of all like to ask either the previous Minister, but especially the present Minister, who, through this explanatory report, has very critically expressed his position here on this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u59	Thank you. The Minister is registered with priority rights, but there is a factual remark from Mr Václav Klaus. He'll give you priority, so you can. Minister, you may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, respond to the speaker. But before that, in the opening passages of today's discussion of this point, some things have fallen and I would like to illuminate them. Here are the issues concerning the fact that the current state of affairs is miserable at the Ministry of Education. There's been some stuff going on here about the past few years. And of course the cases were there, the SAO findings were there, and they were also followed up with the SAO findings. This means that a number of measures have been introduced. So to respond to some of the things Bartoň said here. But I don't take it confrontationally, just to make the debate clear. As far as the money that goes to the unions is concerned, just because it has the nature of the subsidy, so as regards public funds, it tightens the control of the billing of the particular subsidy. I mean, if you've seen any case of this year at the FAČR, it wasn't about public money, it was about private money, which they had there and which they somehow redistributed. I mean, and I guess we can agree that the desirable situation is also that if it's a state sport policy, then the unions shouldn't send money to that space at any rate. Again, I have to say that we've come a long way, and if the unions can use money for their activities and organizations, only targeted projects that are under some kind of control and are not random actions. As regards the acceleration of the subsidy process. Let's remember, and I'm saying that it's very difficult, because it's tied to the state budget, that's how resources get to someone 1. 1st of any year. Technically, it just doesn't work. But I have to say, it's going to be a year-on-year step up the subsidy payout process. And a flagship that goes to individual unity and clubs, where four and a half thousand clubs, even because of the outages of funds at the municipal level, so it asks for money to operate at central level. And the criterion is the number of athletes, which is what we want, so it increases year-on-year. It's been increasing for another year in a row, and for next year, it's going to increase the amount of funds that are going to go there, that is, from 960 million it's going to go somewhere to one and a half billion. And the number of clubs they want, and they have sports kids, so I believe they're going to be close to 6,000, which at this point in time, from registered around 9,000 clubs, is a fairly solid number. But, now I'm getting to the heart of the poodle, I'm not gonna pretend that sport is one of the agendas of the great Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. This means that, in full compliance with the Government's programme statement, any improvement in the field of sport that will move these well-started processes forward and allow the concrete management of the agency, or the Ministry, when it has fallen, to pursue only the sport agenda, is a step in the right direction. With regard to the comments made by the Government on the parliamentary proposal which it has signed, I believe, 51 Members, yes, you are right. Many departments have made these comments, and I must say that we have agreed on the government to process and submitrs, respectively to the representatives of the petitioners, as we would have imagined as ministries, that the comments would be settled. That's what happened. This means that my colleague Hnilička has a basically paragrafo version of those individual comment points. So for me, the comments that the government had are being processed and I think they can be very well discussed in the next process, or this legislative process. This means that there is a comprehensive amendment, or the basis for a complete amendment, which, of course, must be given by the petitioner. Therefore, in my opinion, it is possible to consider the Government's comments as settled or ready to settle in the course of the legislative process. I mean, if I'm to translate it into simple Czech, let this proposal in the next reading, and there it is possible to work these things out. Thank you, that's the position of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u61	Thank you. With a factual remark from Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Milan Hnilička will be prepared with a factual comment. I'd like to see if there's any peace on the left side of this table. [[Members in ministerial benches are having a discussion.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u62	I was gonna say one more thing. Laws are supposed to be good in general. It's about things they have to pay for a long time. And just know that if, for all I know, Mr. Pávek and Mr. Krejza had passed this law, they would have read it that way. So all the government's position would be negative, not neutral, the law would be rejected immediately, or it would end up in some 680th place, and it wouldn't happen by Christmas. This is one fact. And the second thing that's more serious. Mathematicians call it evidence by dispute. After all, there are as many problems as sports in education. So we can say, there are a lot of problems in schools, with funding, students can't do anything, and so on, so let's start the School Agency, let's name five warlords, and Minister Plaga will become Minister of Youth. That's exactly the logic we're using here for the good of the sport. Mrs Rutová from the school committee would be the chair of the School Agency. So it's exactly the same logic that we're using here, and we're pretending that we're going to fix the system. But the right method would be to interpelize Minister Plaga, wouldn't it? Put pressure on him by us opposition even more. Government MPs too, so there's no shame in it. What's wrong with the sport, they've already changed the distribution, when it changes, why does it change? Those are the normal steps of how it's supposed to go down. And we've been talking about tech for four hours, like the agency's ever gonna be. Slowly, the mansion is still missing to be delivered. That's what we'll deliver at second reading. So that's about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u63	Another Mr Milan Hnilička and Mr Jan Volný will be prepared, all factual remarks. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u64	I would just like to respond through the President to the Minister and support exactly what he said. Today at the Sports Department, there's a huge effort to improve the programs and the challenges. And what's missing, unfortunately, is the means, or somehow, the whiplash, how to get it into those clubs. The program My Club, which concerns financing all bodybuilding unity and small and large sports clubs, depends on the fact that they, the sports environment, enter the number of members, and unfortunately, today we have no way to check if the number of members is really there. Therefore, I strongly support the efforts of the Ministry of Education to do something about this, and I strongly support this. But unfortunately, both personnel and professional background is not in this department. Today, there are basically 20 employees working there, and that is basically not enough to distribute so much money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u65	Thank you. Mr. Jan Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u66	Mr President, thank you. Greetings to all colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to argue a little bit here with Mr. Klaus Jr.'s statement. He compared the attitude to sport to education, that there are also problems in education. I think that this activity, which is certainly not perfectly written, wants to unite the attitude and funding of sport. And here with many previous speakers, it was rightly said that it was torn apart, that every ministry had some kind of bubble of money to support sport. The ministries and the authorities that put money in sports may be five, maybe six. Here's an effort to get it under one hat, under one control. And not only to check that it is purposefully spent, it is, of course, a necessary condition for it to work, but also to take it all the way. [[18.30 hours]] I am also a former athlete, a representative, and subsequently I was a long-time trainer in Mariánské Lázně. And I know how those coaches, those enthusiasts, are able to either support, maintain, or completely destroy the relationship to sports in cities like Mariánské Lázně. And how many times have they been completely unappreciated and completely plonk, because they only did it out of love. They may keep doing this, but if they don't see any minimal awards, sooner or later, they're the families, the wives just push them to go somewhere in the brigade rather than to be in the stadium every day. I would very much ask that we give this law space. We won't rush him, we won't shorten the deadlines, let's discuss it. I liked my colleague Janda's speech. [[Attention on time.]] Let's give it some space! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u67	Thank you. I will ask the right side of the Chamber this time to lower its noise level. Thank you. In the general debate is Mr Ivo Pojezný, Mr Juránek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u68	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I was gonna say nice afternoon, that's when we started, it's early evening. I think that this House is beginning to suffer from some sort of parliamentary illness, these are factual comments that will then degenerate the whole debate somewhere else entirely before we originally led it. I didn't take advantage of it because I knew I was gonna perform, so any colleague could decide. I think it's fair. Therefore, allow me first to respond to some colleagues. For example, Mr Bauer, who here called on the Minister to speak. He got provoked, perhaps he could wait a little longer, Mrs. Valachová, the former minister, but perhaps he could also ask the former Minister of Education from his own ranks Mr. Fiala, and that is precisely the most tragic period in the financing of sport. I think my colleague Hnilička was very mild when he only informed us about some minor troubles, but I'm going to set it straight. The Supreme Audit Office clearly defined in 2011 to 2013, and this is the black moth of our Czech sport that MŠMT failed as a guarantor in the field of sport. It was unable to set measurable targets and redistribute funds without being able to assess the resulting effect of the subsidies. Now beware: out of more than three billion, it sent more than 1.2 billion. beneficiaries on the basis of incomplete, incorrect, late deliveries or completely missing applications for subsidies. One billion went to beneficiaries who did not fully meet the conditions for granting subsidies. Well, then we can't be surprised that there is some parliamentary initiative that just wants out of it and that some proposal has been made for an amendment to the Sport Support Act. Mr. Jakub Janda, a colleague of Janda, a big sport fan, also said he didn't want any champagne to be paid, and I feel that at this level it's more expensive champagne, so I won't say at what price some champagne bottle is worth not paying politicians. Well, let's look back at the sport that politicians attended important sports events in the Czech Republic. I didn't see much left-handed there, but I've always seen a deputy from the ODS. Remember, for example, fed cups, tennis tournaments, etc. Yes, they were hounds. And remember this period, when officials were set clear boundaries and some ranking of the order that sports clubs' finances would get. Well, what happened? When the ranking was drawn up according to clear rules, the Deputy Minister came in, crossed out the whole page and wrote what the mobsters wanted to fight against this amendment to the Sports Support Act. Of course, Mr Bartoň, who touched on this amendment, is clearly nothing more than the control of the last beneficiary of the funds. I wouldn't have signed this novel without it. And there's no way that, and that's always been a proposal from the civil democrats - let's give it to the unions, they'll somehow redistribute it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u69	Please, I'll cut you off! And if there is no peace in the Chamber, especially from the right side, then we will not continue. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u70	Thank you. I wanted to say, sir, but Mr Vice-President, for keeping his colleagues quiet. Well, it turned out very tragic. The redistribution was inefficient, wrong, and if it was redistributed through the unions, where did the funding go? They've reached the wages of various officials. And just remember the letter, I would say, when Mrs. Čáslavská was abused about three years ago when we received the letter, individual clubs to make the Czech Olympic Committee the largest authority to redistribute the finances. But they got the chance. They've been given the opportunity to redistribute the funds from the lotteries. I think it was some 600 million crowns. They were supposed to put it mainly on children, youth and youth coaches, and out of the 600 million crowns, if you were watching it, 400,000 just came to children and youth. Of 600, or more than 600 million crowns. I want to say that I have signed this amendment with a clear conscience that it is the only possible step at the moment to somehow emerge from our major problems so unfortunately corruptly affected sports environment, which is not only caused by corruption but also by bad, inefficient, transparent redistribution of funds. And I am also glad that this amendment reflects the enormous importance of sport and its social status for its extraordinary importance, which unfortunately has been forgotten since 1990. And if you look at how much money came from the state budget, we were really on the verge of Europe. I do not say the European Union. The whole of Europe, really. I think we were in second place somewhere, only Romania was behind us. However, I feel like the first step and it is necessary to separate the law on promoting sport and the law on sport. This is the second step, which should be aimed at a new law on sport, but also, of course, sufficient funding for funds and certainly not least to improve control mechanisms. And I think that this amendment is clearly moving towards this. The essence of funding must remain, as the Minister said in the end, on direct financing of clubs, especially with emphasis on sporting children, youth, but also on helping the disabled, national representation, international sporting events on our territory, and we must not forget the promotion of sport. But be careful, especially for the promotion not among adults, but especially for the promotion that will appeal to our little children. The most precious thing we have. And unfortunately, because of where this sport was conducted, we have a generation that has never been a sport. These are people under the age of 40 who are starting families today, they have their children, and I completely doubt that these people will lead their children to sport. I know that sports children are declining across Europe. We know that it is tragic in our country that, for example, over the last six years, it has ceased its activities at 350 football clubs, i.e. The ones in the small villages, and I'm sure we'll carry this burden for a long time. Although I know that eight million football players have ended up in football throughout the European Union in the last five years. The tragedy is that those who play sports usually end up with sport at the age of 15. [[18.40 hours]] Sport, of course, also lacks a huge amount of investment over the years. It's been said here. If we have a sports lot worth more than 90 billion crowns, according to some - I have the impression that ČUS has worked out that internal debt in sports grounds is over 60 billion crowns. Moreover, it is mostly an infrastructure that was built before 1989. We have supported the creation of an agency, a small ministry of sport, in the past, and the intention to create an optimal and professional sport subject, which has a separate budget chapter and, in addition, with optimal control mechanisms, is extremely desirable in my view. This should not result in inefficient phenomena, often with criminal backgrounds, and it is a crucial step and a very important step for cleansing sport from various lobbyist groups linked to this area. I therefore see the amendment as an instrument for improving the conditions of the whole sports environment. I see that improving the financing of sport will also encourage raising funds to give it a green light. I'm gonna trust the government, I'm gonna trust Milan Hnilička, who's gonna make it happen in the current government, that's what's gonna happen. But I'm also firmly convinced if the agency is set up, that after years, the Supreme Audit Office will have no reason to point to such serious shortcomings that have unfortunately been here in the past. That's why I signed the proposal. And I am firmly convinced that the proposal is of good quality. Of course, it can change - it's not about Milan Hnilička, as I've heard from many sides, because he's here today, he doesn't have to be here tomorrow, there might be someone else. I also agree with the overlap of that term in order to intervene in more parliamentary elections. It's only good. I believe that the sports environment will accept this very positively, and it is obvious that despite the large roofing organizations that supported it, my information is that it is supported by the small ones, and they believe that the sports environment will improve rapidly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u71	Thank you. I have three factual points here. The first is Mr Kopřiva, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Mr Adamec is also in the order of factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm glad the debate is going on and everyone wants to express themselves, but we have two more points on the table today, and we should talk about them too. So I would like to propose an extension of the negotiations today after 7:00 p.m., so that points 50 and 52 can be discussed, because they have been included for today. And I think there's a general consensus when they're included that they're gonna wake up. I understand that maybe some people don't want to talk about it, because maybe they don't think it's appropriate, but I think we should talk about it tonight. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u73	You must make this proposal on behalf of two parliamentary clubs, otherwise I will not vote on it. [[Noise in the hall. Members of the assembly are coming to the ballroom.]] I am pleased that the Members have all come to the Chamber, but unfortunately Mr Kopřiva's proposal for an extension of the date is unvoteable because the proposal must be made by two Members' clubs. Another point of fact is Mr Ivan Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u74	Mr President, colleagues, I do not know if I am going to yell you out at this point, but I wanted to respond to my colleague on the left when he said some things here, as was very bad for those ugly right-wing governments. So Chairman Fiala isn't here, he can't defend himself. I would just like to say that in 2010 he arrived - 2012 was the Minister of Education, Mr Dobeš, and the President of the Fiala was from May 2012 to June 2013, when the government fell. So everyone get a picture of who prepared these budgets and how it was, how they were consumed. And by the way, I don't know whose deputy was interrogated and shut down by the police, who then ran the Ministry of Education and Sports for the last five years. So let me get this straight. Otherwise, of course, I understand what happened here, I don't have a problem with that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u75	Sorry. I will ask the Chamber of Deputies to really keep it down, because it is very unpleasant to speak in a humming room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u76	I don't mind. I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u77	We'll wait. I'll set the time for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u78	So I repeat, we need to use the facts as the facts really were, and let's not throw the problems at someone else. I don't think we should ever go back to the past at this point. We have a serious question ahead of us. Take a look at the government's interest in discussing this point. [[There are two ministers sitting on the government bench.]] I think, and I repeat, it should be a government priority number if not one, at least two. And let's not make this accusation about what happened in the past. I think that today, more or less all the burden or most of the burden of financing sport has been borne by municipalities, cities and regions. So I have no objection to wanting to change that, but the question is how. And I fundamentally disagree with that, because I consider the proposal to be very poor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u79	Thank you, though, for keeping time. And I will ask Mr Václav Klaus with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u80	I also wanted to respond to Mr Pojezný, with the fact that it does not seem dignified to involve any issues of the past in the substantive discussion of the law on sport. Some people like the law or present it, some people don't like it, so we make arguments. But you yourself always react very anxiously when someone's throwing you thirty-year-old stuff, which I understand, if some of you aren't that old, then you're very much reacting that it's not your fault, but just as much as I don't like it, don't do to another. When we're discussing the law here, tossing something seven years ago, nine years ago, who was a minister, it's not a matter of substance. The point is whether the law is good and good or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u81	Thank you. So another one with a factual remark, Mr Ivo Pojezný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u82	Colleagues, I have begun my speech by responding to my previous speakers. And since my previous speakers were just talking about the past, I gave it back to them. That's all. I didn't want to talk about it at all. I didn't want to respond to those reports from the Supreme Audit Office, you guys came up with it. If you hadn't come up with it, I wouldn't have responded. I guess you didn't listen to me. I specifically responded to Mr Bauer and Mr Janda. That's all I did. The fact that you're reacting to me after I'm not dragging it in, why did you bring it in here? I would just say about the amendment to the Sports Support Act, and that's all. So don't blame me. I only responded to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u83	Thank you. Mr Kubíček, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will allow myself, on behalf of the two ANO and ČSSD MPs, to propose negotiations after the 19th hour before this item is discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u85	Yes. I will put this proposal to a vote. So I'll check you out. We will be voting on the proposal of two ANO and ČSSD MEPs to negotiate this point even after 7 pm. The number has settled. I'm opening the vote... I have now begun the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 172, 147 Members signed in for 106, versus 8. The motion was accepted. [[18.50 hours]] Let's keep going. Mr Jan Lipavský is registered in the factual notes, and Mrs Dana Balcarová will be prepared. He checked out, so Mrs. Balcarová. He's checking out, too, so we're going to the debate. Mr Juránek is a member of the debate. Please, you have the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] I shall ask once again, before I give the floor to Mr Juránek, to keep the Chamber of Deputies quiet, so that we can negotiate this point. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u86	Mr President, honourable speakers, Mr Minister, now I think of the Minister of Education, I am very pleased that this debate has taken place here. I didn't enter it, and I don't even want to respond to those who were before me, because I take it that this law is of great interest. And I'm going to add one thing to that, it's even more interested in having a law on sport here as such. And I think that's a thing that's been going on for a very long time, and this thing isn't going well here at all. I won't talk about the past or who's to blame. It's not important. The reason this situation arose is that it is already the despair of those who are and live with a sports environment more than just watching from the couch. Because they want the sport environment to be handled better from above in some way. Because what municipalities do, I thank them very much for it, the municipalities do what they can, but they have a certain amount of budget and a certain degree of responsibility. The regions are also trying very hard, and I think that when I look at the summary report that the regions put into sport, that the regions give the maximum of what they have from the budgetary determination of taxes. There's someone in every county who somehow supports the sport. If we're talking about this right now, of course we have to deal with the Sport Act, and in it we're going to deal with a lot of the comments that have been made here, and I'm willing to sign up for them, and I'm going to deal with them, and I'm going to be very happy that they've already been made today, but that they're going to be dealt with in a system way and that we're going to deal with it in a different way. [[The noise in the room won't stop!]] It's important, it's said here, it's important that we deal with this. But now we're on the sidelines. I would say now, please, we have come into a situation that support is not and cannot be addressed. I thank the Minister for what is being dealt with. That the number of children appeared in the first place as a criterion, I think at the age of six to twenty-three years, even one to twenty-three, I apologize, whether that's accurate, that's a big step forward. [[Warning from the rapporteur: one to twenty-three]] I'll tell you, the situation that has occurred in our schools, for example, is completely insane. When I went to school, gym class was the most popular. And if somebody didn't go to gym class, it was such a shame that even if his leg was broken, he'd go in there, pretending and loitering. At present, ten years ago, what happened in the South Moravian Region at one economic school, where there were all the girls, that none of them went to gym class. Imagine that there wasn't a single girl in the whole school who would go to this school. The director's dealt with it. It's been 12 years, no matter what. I'll tell you what, he was looking for a solution within the school. I'm going to point out how he finally got to the solution. He put out a tender for gym teacher, a teacher came in and said, "If you agree to do it, I'll do aerobics in gym class." Not that half the girls applied, all the girls at that school applied for physical education. [[Members are noisy.]] I'm just giving instructions here. The school did it, but it didn't make it at the national level anymore. She couldn't even do her third gym class. And at the moment, gym class is a hated subject. I beg you, too, by helping those coaches, by helping in some way in the distribution of money, and by supporting this agency, or the reading that we have here for second reading, so that we can fulfill -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u87	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you because the noise level... The Chamber of Deputies is really... undignified... I'd ask you to continue because we've quieted down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u88	- so we can fill up some of the things that have been going on since 1995. We're talking about the agency putting together a rap sheet. Not that there's no record, but there's 10.5 million athletes in the register. It's useless. We're still approaching this number of 10.5 million, and we're getting into this situation that we can't figure out if someone is in three unitys or if they're in one, and we can't even pinpoint exactly how those kids are accepted. That means, just that we're gonna put this agency on the job to take care of that record from a slightly different form, that it's gonna be their filling, that's a huge contribution to the sports environment. I'm begging you, too, with the sports grounds we have. In each region it has been mapped differently, in every city it has been mapped differently according to some system, but we haven't even found the right criteria to evaluate it, because imagine we have gymnasiums that don't fit according to the rules or basketball court. Speaking of volleyball, how many halls we have, where we can play by the rules. Even in those schools, when gyms are built, he doesn't care about these things. We need to look for these paths. I wouldn't mind if the Ministry of Education existed, but right now, on that basis... sorry... [[Warning from the rapporteur]] Thank you. The Ministry of Education exists, but I meant the Ministry of Sport. I don't mind if we come to this, but that's a harder way to go than finding a way to that agency right now. That is why I think the Agency is the right step in the direction to help this sport environment significantly by preparing the conceptual materials there, because they will have nothing more important to worry about than how to create the concept of sport. [[There's still a lot of noise and restlessness in the hall!]] And now I'm gonna tell you one more thing. I'm, uh, someone in front of me, I'm sure it was for the mass sport, the sport for the general public. I'm in favour of the children who are mostly overweight at the moment taking a little less time off. But I'm also in favour of the representation. You know, if we don't give them the motivation of our athletes, if we don't create the space for representation on the other hand, we won't be able to attract them to the sport or show them how good it is that they do sports in some way. That is why I have applied to this matter and I have also signed among the petitioners. I know it has a number of flaws, but the comments made by the various ministries are already proposed directly in paragrafo. That means it's not like it's boiled out of the water, something has to be reprepared. The D.O.D. agreed to it. And the basis for me is that the Minister of Education agrees with this, as has been said here, I have to say it all, education, youth and sports, so that we don't forget that the body building belongs there too. From that perspective, it's for me that we've already taken a huge step forward. And I thank everyone who's dealt with it and dealt with it. [[19.00 hours]] Please, it affects us all because it affects every single child. If we have children, or if we have grandchildren, it affects everyone at this point. And we can incorporate everything into it, including the health sport, because there's the overlap with the health care at the moment we're as a nation getting fat, and we have statistics that we're very fat about our children, so of course that's bordering. But the Minister of Health is not here, but I believe the Minister of Health will also support it. And now for this agency as such, I definitely need us to say to each other and accept that this is the way we're going to go, so that we really don't forget that we agreed on this thing, at least mostly. But I'll be glad if the comments that were here are incorporated into two laws. After all, we have a stenographic record of it, so we can read it all, because I don't think it's the lost hours we've devoted to it, because within those hours, there was a preparation for the law on sports. And the Agency will not decide on sport as such. We're gonna pass the sports bill here. And if the agency's conceptual materials are, they'll get back here, because the agency's conceptual material has no one else to approve. This means that I consider it very important here to say that we have taken the first step today, and I thank all those who have taken the first step. Thank you for listening. I tried not to enter those two minutes or react now to those who somehow said something because I wanted us to have this whole view of sport. And I say thank you, everyone. But I would like to conclude by thanking especially the fact that the particular blackout that was created by the state is largely offset by this blackout in the municipalities and regions. And at the end of the day, I'm only gonna give you one snag. You know, I'm gonna step in now that I'm part of a sports environment, and we, as a sports environment, have lost one thing in the past. The loss was big and heavy, and her name is sazka. I hope we don't make any more mistakes like this in the sports environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u89	Thank you. Let me read the apologies. Mr Ondřej Benešík is excused here from 19 o'clock until the end of the day. Furthermore, Mr Mikuláš Peksa apologizes for personal reasons from 19:00 5 minutes 31 seconds 157 milliseconds and 486 microseconds. I was asked to read it this way and specify exactly the time of departure of Mr Peksa. Furthermore, Vice-President Okamura apologizes until the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a final request for a debate. I would really like Mr Válek to have our speech delivered in a dignified and peaceful environment so that we can reach the conclusion of this point. [[Member of the War: Thank you, Mr President.]] Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. I think he's still... I don't understand why we can't calm some people down, and if we want to discuss something, let's discuss it in the foyer. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u90	Thank you once again, Mr President, but there is always a dignified environment in the Chamber of Deputies, so I am not afraid of that. And since we have quite a lot of self-help students, I'm used to lecturing in front of those who basically don't know what I'm talking about. And there's no danger of that. [[Laughs in plenary.]] I'm wondering if I should tell you how it's customary for me to be short. Then I won't say it. I won't be short, but I'll be brief if it helps somehow. I'd like to say we're talking about sports. So I've been looking for what sports are. I found that the word sport is from the English word disport and that it means cheer and distraction. I didn't quite feel like this is what we're talking about. But it was said here that the proposal was supported by the Sokol municipality, and I liked that very much. As Professor Tyrš, who was a university professor, teacher - and we were talking about professors - like Pierre de Coubertin, he defined the sport somewhat differently. He defined it by the word calokagathia. Kalokagathia is Greek and means harmony and symbiosis between spirit, mind and body. And I think that's what we should be discussing, and that should be here. And I'm gonna save enough space for that, if it moves to second reading, second reading. I would like to say three things very briefly. The first thing I'd like to mention is the buffoons. The Buffoon of English Buffoon means a clown or a merry kick, and that certainly is not the boofoons, as we know them from Czech sport. They're crooks and crooks robbing athletes for money. The second thing I would like to point out, from my point of view, the athletes are top, performance and recreational. I greatly appreciate top athletes as much as I respect Nobelův laureates. I really appreciate the performance athletes, as I appreciate the scientists who do base research for a living. But what I would like us to support are recreational athletes, i.e. those who play the harmony of the body and the spirit in their spare time. And I'd like to support them. So if such an agency were to be created - I want to believe that the debate about the law, about the agency, will be very open and the original proposal will change - then I would like the funding to be divided very clearly and clearly in the spirit of the proposed grant agencies for funding for top sport, performance sport and recreational sport, because, as in science, a team that wants to research from a small district workplace, compete with a team from a research institute or university, it is hard for recreational athletes and top athletes to compete with the same amount of money. And why am I as a doctor about this change? Because whoever looks at me sees at first glance that I'm neither peak nor performance, even if I'm a recreational athlete. Why do I care about this change? Because our children's obesity is increasing. Obesity of the population is increasing, leading to an increase in the number of diseases. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a very interesting research that took place in England in connection with the London Olympics in 2012. The English Olympians gradually raised less and less money and, after the Olympics were approved to London, the Parliament decided that it would dramatically increase the money that would go to the Olympics to prepare the Olympics, the English Olympics. And yes, the English Olympians jumped third in London. On what pretext was this money invested in these Olympics? The pretext, or the defense was very simple. By supporting the Olympics, promoting sport, youth and children will become more athletic, healthier, leaner. The complete dismay of all those who advocated this project was the complete opposite. That one Olympian may have cost a hundred times more than before, but the population kept getting fatter, the children continued to play less sports. And those examples, those beautiful London 2012 examples, didn't lead to more sports for the youth. I believe that colleagues of top athletes, who are in our ranks and whom I personally appreciate very much, are particularly interested in children's sport, children's health, and that this will be the aim of the agency. And if he does, then he has my support. If she doesn't, then she doesn't have my support and I'll do everything I can to make sure she doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u91	Thank you, honourable Member. I don't have any other MPs registered. I am ending the general debate. Any final words? The rapporteur? The plaintiff? Interested? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u92	Thank you. I would just like to thank everyone present for the discussion. I would also like to thank opponents for their views, because only in this way can we improve and work on our material. And now I'd like to ask everyone to let us get to second reading, and so they voted for our novel today. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u93	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u94	I will reincarnate myself once again into the role of rapporteur. I won't talk about things anymore. I'm saying the debate was a matter of fact. Two proposals were made to return the law to the recast, from the Pirate Club Mr. Bartoň and from the ODS Club Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u95	Thank you. As the rapporteur said, we have a motion to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I will vote on this proposal. I'll check you out before... So, before I begin the vote, we will vote on the proposal to return the material submitted for completion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 173, 148 Members voted in favour of 42, against 81. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order a motion to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Isn't that... Yes. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u96	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I believe that this law will change the structure of the public administration if it comes into force and its effectiveness and the National Agency for Sport is established here. This means that this National Agency will in a way be separated from the Ministry of Education. That is why I am proposing that this be given to the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because that is precisely the committee in charge of the public administration, and the most important task of this law is that this structure will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u97	Thank you. I shall have a vote on the proposal for the Guarantee Committee to be designated by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 174, 148 Members signed in for 99 against 32. The motion was accepted. I note that the Guarantee Committee has been designated by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I have factual points here, but... Mr. Chairman Michálek has priority rights to report. Real notes don't work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u98	So I would like to propose the committee, which was also proposed by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and which should really be in charge. That's the school committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u99	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u100	Please, now you've decided to take it from the Minister of Education and Education, and then you're going to add it to us. That's a total comedy to me. The law will still pass if thousands of other Members enter. He's already a Paquila. So I would very much ask you not to assign it to the school committee when you took it away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u101	Thank you. I will have President Michálek's proposal put to the vote that the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports should be appointed as the next committee. I'll let you vote on this. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting with order number 175. Registered 148, for 126, versus 12. The motion was accepted. Mr. Válek MP. [[Strong noise and restlessness in the hall.]] I'm asking for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid to say this now, but I hope that... I would therefore suggest that one of the committees or other committees should be the Committee on Health for the reasons that I have mentioned. But if you don't mind and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u103	Should I take that as a suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u104	Yes. I propose that the next committee be the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u105	I will put this proposal to a vote. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 176, registered is 148, for 52, versus 59. The motion was not accepted. We've dealt with this... Anyone else checking in? I don't see anyone. I beg you, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u106	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to propose an agricultural committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-003-065.u107	Well. I will, of course, vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number 177, registered is 146, for 27, against 78. The motion was denied. I see no further suggestion on the commandment. I'm saying we're ending this point. With the agreement of the MPs, we'll continue tomorrow at ten o'clock according to the program where we'll discuss the contracts... [[Interview off the microphone.]] Interpelations are canceled. There aren't any interpelations. It's a political club deal.
