ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I welcome you all here. I ask you to settle in your seats and, if possible, lower the noise level in the hall so that we do not have to shout. We have a sixth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[The big noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I'll give you guys a minute. I'm opening the sixth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 6th meeting on 4 January 2018. The invitation was sent to you on Friday, January 5, 2018. I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Vice-President Hamáček will vote with replacement card number 2. President Stanjura votes with card number 1. We will first proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting as at the beginning of each meeting. I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall. I propose that we designate Mr František Kopřiva and Mr Jiří Mihola as the verifier. Does anyone else have a proposal to identify the verifiers? [[He doesn't.]] One more time, please, quiet in the room! Let's take a vote. If no one else has a proposal, I am opening the vote and asking who is for the verifiers so proposed. Who's against it? Voting number 1, 144 Members registered, for 139, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have appointed members of František Kopřiva and members of Jiří Mihola as verifiers of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I now say that by the beginning of the meeting they asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting by the following Members: Ivan Adamec without giving reason, Dana Balcarová for medical reasons, Marian Bojko for medical reasons, Pavel Jelínek for family reasons, Přemysl Mališ for family reasons, Květa Matušovská for personal reasons, David Pražák for health reasons, Antonín Staněk for no reason. Martin Jiránek by 10.00 for personal reasons. Minister Jiří Milek apologizes from the members of the government from 9 to 13.00 for work reasons and Minister Martin Stropnický from 9.00 to 11.00 for work reasons. I also read Mrs Olga Richtrová's apology between 9.00 and 9.30 because of a doctor's visit. We've dealt with apologies. We will now proceed to the establishment of the programme of the 6th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. With regard to the overall discussion of the draft agenda, I have some information from Gremia. We propose to include new points in the draft agenda, namely: 1. the amendment of the European Union's asylum policy and the revision of the so-called Dublin Protocol, 2. a proposal for the election of members or the establishment of a standing commission Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, 3. a proposal for the election of the President of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, 4. Government bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on conditions of operation of vehicles on roads, House printing 51, first reading. We also propose the following procedure: paragraph 22 of the proposal for a programme, this is the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, to place firmly on Wednesday 17. 1., i.e. today, as the first item, paragraph 10 of the draft programme, House Press 22, Labour Code, to include firmly on Tuesday 23. 1. as the first item and point 5 of the draft programme, House press 27, Senate proposal on pharmaceuticals, to include on Wednesday 24. 1:00 p.m., 2:30 p.m. I have some information for you. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we have item 36 on the agenda - Answers to written interpelations. To date this point is not fulfilled, you can cross it out. I will now ask you, Members of Parliament, to comment on the draft programme if necessary. I, for the moment, register as the first priority application for President Bartoš's application, followed by President Bartošek, then with priority rights Vice-President Okamura, President Faltýnek reporting from the seat. Noted. Please, Mr. Chairman first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u2	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Although a sort of original agreement was based on the grémia to continue with the adjourned vote of the House on the extradition of Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, we think - and I was looking for support yesterday - that this negotiation, given that we already have the recommendations of the mandate and immunity committee, could take place today. I was looking for support for this proposal yesterday. I've been texting myself. I would therefore like to propose - and there could also be wider support, as I learned in the evening - to include this point at the Chamber of Deputies meeting today, in order - if these points are included - immediately after the Dublin IV item has been discussed. My proposal is this item in the House's meeting and voting on the waiver of Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek's immunity to include at today's meeting. There's no reason to delay, we have recommendations. I would include this if the agenda for the meeting was approved after the Dublin IV meeting, where there should be wider support, as I learned yesterday after my communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. Just to do so in some way in a procedural way, this item is not on the agenda of the meeting, so it is a proposal that it should be included at all. To this end, President Grospič, chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, has already made himself known. Then, of course, we'll deal with it in some way. I'm registering your proposal. [[9.10 hours]] Now I would like to read the apology of Mrs Jana Krutáková between 9.00 and 9.45 without giving any reason. So... [[A deal off the mic.]] Well, I think we left it there, referred to the Prime Minister. Another with priority rights is signed by President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. While this will be mentioned once again, I also propose that the agenda of the meeting include a request for the extradition of Prime Minister Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, and I suggest that this item be discussed today as item two, firmly placed after the establishment of the ÚZSI Commission, as is in the proposal of the Grémium. Furthermore, I also propose that this point be placed on Friday as the first item of the hearing on the Dublin Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Another priority right, Mr. Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include a point entitled Change in the European Union's asylum policy and a revision of the so-called Dublin Protocol as a second item in today's negotiations. Let me give you a brief explanation. The institutions of the European Union have prepared a fundamental revision of asylum policy. In the context of this revision of asylum policy, the European Union takes over the competence for central redistribution of asylum seekers who come to the territory of the European Union. This significantly limits the sovereignty of the Member States of the European Union, i.e. the Czech Republic. The central redistribution of migrants seeking asylum is linked to the granting of the right to family consolidation after receiving asylum, i.e. the influx of other migrants to the Member State where the migrant was assigned. In the case of rejection of asylum seekers, the Czech Republic is threatened with a financial penalty of 200 thousand on the basis of this revision. EUR for an unaccepted migrant, which is equivalent to approximately EUR 5 million. CZK for each rejected migrant. This financial penalty can mean a significant financial burden for the budget of the Czech Republic due to the estimated number of migrants. For these essential reasons, we ask for this item to be included in the agenda for this meeting. I think it would really be very good if we agreed in the Chamber of Deputies that we consider the revision of asylum policy as prepared by the institutions of the European Union to be a violation of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, and it would be good in this context to call on the Government of the Czech Republic to reject such a prepared revision of the Dublin Protocol. Let me conclude by thanking the Members of other political parties because we have been collecting signatures for an extraordinary meeting on this subject. We managed to collect the signatures thanks to the members of other political parties, so I am glad that we have all been able to reach an agreement here. It is a demonstration that the House is able to agree on important topics. More specifically, I would like to thank you - we have the signatures of the KSČM Members, we have three signatures of the ČSSD Members, we have 15 signatures of the ODS, we also have an ANO Member's signature, and of course we have all 22 signatures for the SPD. This means that it is a cross-section of political parties. It is great that we can agree on such an important topic that would affect the social atmosphere in the Czech Republic for good and that we will all discuss it here. I wanted to thank all these parties that I have appointed, all of them, not just individuals, for their helpful attitudes, and that we can discuss this here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u7	Vice-President, I'm just gonna make sure. I'm sorry. Is that what you're proposing as the first point today, the second point behind setting up a committee? [[Member of Okamura: Yes.]] Mr Grospič is next on the agenda. [[Mr. Faltynek reports he's next.]] I'm sorry, I apologize to my club president. Mr. Faltýnek with priority rights. We will. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Allow me to propose a new item in the meeting A request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Members of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek on Friday 19 January as the first item on the date of the hearing. The reason for this is that Mr Babiš and I can express ourselves sufficiently and comment on this matter from our point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. I'm now registering President Kalousek's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider one thing. And, of course, it's up to you to consider. We have some suggestions where we will firmly place the issue point or not issue our two colleagues for criminal prosecution. Either if I short it out, it'll be today, or it'll be Friday. Since this thing's been stretching for two months, it doesn't seem to matter if it's Wednesday or Friday. However, please consider that it doesn't really matter. In addition to the fact that we are to discuss these matters without delay, when we monitor the media output of what is happening in the House right now, it may also be partly about our credibility. I want to believe that, by unfortunate coincidence, two information has been heard in the public space by President Faltýnek. They're both true. We will be negotiating with the SPD on Thursday, and we want to vote on the release on Friday. We don't want Wednesday, we want Friday. And we'll deal with the SPD on Thursday. The information just came together. I don't think that's true. I want to believe that's not the case. But if we vote Friday today, colleagues from the SPD, please consider that the possible suspicion of some ugly guards - I will order that I do not belong to them - but that the possible suspicion of some ugly guards that you will be bidding for the price of not publishing all Thursday, you simply will not remove it. [[entertainment in the hall]] The only way to prevent this is to vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Faltýnek, then President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u12	I'm so sorry. Mostly to babbling and nonsense - but I will take the blue book, my colleague, through Mr President. We haven't quoted your famous parachutes, your time, your pandurs and other things in a long time. So whether it's today or Friday. However, I do not understand much of this hysteria of my colleague Kalousek, when Mr Babiš and I clearly said that we wanted to be issued, that we would be actively voting for the extradition ourselves. And outside the ANO movement, I don't know a subject in the House that's for extradition. I don't know a subject like that. So it's just a technical matter where we just wanted to have some space and time to comment on the case and say our own opinion on it. But if the House decides otherwise, of course we will respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. With priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to respond a little with a smile to my previous speaker Mirek Kalousek's performance, because I think that the case of Faltýnek - Babiš for the Czech Chamber of Deputies is over. They said they wanted to be given up. The mandate and immune committee said they'd release it, and we all want to release it. And we always said we wanted to release him. But Mr Kalousek brought in a bit of a detective plot today. And the whole story is starting to get tangled up again, and I think Christie Christie and others would be very happy. Unfortunately, the only ones who will fall for it will be Czech journalists who will start developing this plot immediately today, and on Friday we will all know that they will just be published. But I don't think there's any danger of delay. [[9.20 hours]] And now I'm gonna speak for the SPD. Ladies and gentlemen, Dublin IV is important to us. We do not want to put immigration and asylum policy within the competence of the institutions of the European Union. I'm gonna say again that I'm gonna speak for the SPD. I simply will not trade Dublin IV and the security risk of the Czech Republic for Faltýnek and Babiš. There's just no danger of being late with Faltýnek and Babiš. Whereas here, I think it's important. And sometimes I feel like other political parties don't have a political agenda other than Faltýnek and Babiš. The SPD has it! [[Strong applause, screams in the hall.]] And that's actually it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u15	So, I think we're exhausted for this moment of priority rights. So Mr Grospič with a proper application for a draft agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Government, dear colleagues, perhaps I will now say something that should have led to all the procedural proposals that were here before me, because it is probably waiting for the official communication of the mandate and immunity committee to end the discussion of the police authority's request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, who was delivered to the Chamber of Deputies on 20 November 2017. We started discussing this request at the 3rd meeting of the Committee, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová was designated as rapporteur for the Committee. At the second meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the Chamber of Deputies included the consideration of the request in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House as paragraph 31. The House resolution 33 of 30 November 2017 suspended and adjourned until this item was discussed by the mandate and immune committee. And I can say here that yesterday, on 16 January, the mandate and immunity committee discussed the matter, adopted a resolution which was handed out to you on the same day on the bench, and I therefore ask you to include this suspended item number 31 at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at this 6th meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Just to make things right here a little bit. There is also a letter from President Stanislav Grospič, who was delivered on Tuesday at 12.29, that is yesterday, where there was a request for the inclusion of this point, then followed by a proposal from Mr Bartoš for his solid inclusion, and Mr Bartošek also proposes his inclusion on the microphone, which means when I add it up, we already have three proposals for inclusion. We will vote on this with one vote. I think we can deal with that. It'll be like the first vote. Well, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u18	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I think we should let the police do their job, too, and it is pointless that we already have the decision of the mandate and immunity committee so that the police cannot do it. Tell them to disprove all the lies and rumors about the Chapi Nest case, so let them have time so they can work so we don't keep them from working. So I don't see any reason why we can't release the two gentlemen in a few minutes so the police can decide their innocence, and it can work fine here. I think that's the obvious thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u19	Well, thank you. If there's no one else with priority rights... [[Members report to the O.R.]] On the agenda? Unfortunately, we're not in the debate, I can't give you the facts. I'm registering your application for the agenda. Next, the President of the Election Commission, Mr Kolovratník, will speak on the draft agenda for the meeting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u20	Dear members of the government, colleagues, and good morning from me, this morning. I would like to ask you for a solid vote on behalf of the electoral commission as well as following up on the information I received from yesterday's Gremia meeting. I ask you to vote on two proposals for election points, or two such blocks. The first one would be a block of secret elections that are technically ready to be executed by now. And first of all, item number 23, motion for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies Committee of Investigation to the OKD, it is the second round of the first election. Furthermore, paragraph 24, Proposal for the election of the President of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the General Inspection of Security Corps, this will be the repeated second round of the first election, and then paragraph 29, Proposal for the election of the members of the National Budget Board, 30, Proposal for the election of the President of the National Budget Board, and finally 31, Proposal for the election of the members of the Supreme Audit Office. All these five electoral points, so this block is technically prepared by the electoral commission, and as we usually vote or hold elections on Wednesdays, so I also ask for the inclusion today, i.e. on Wednesdays, for 12.30 hours. That's the first proposal for the Election Commission. And then the second proposal concerns the block of four electoral points, the administrative and supervisory board of the VZP. These are points 25, 26, 27 and 28. It is therefore a series of proposals to appeal the members of the Board of Directors and then the Supervisory Board, then the proposal to choose the members and alternate members of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board. Here I will remind you that these points are in accordance with the law, when the Chamber of Deputies, from the setting-up meeting within 90 days of the law, must change the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board of the VZP. So our second request is points 25, 26, 27 and 28 to place firmly next week on Wednesday 24 January at 12.30. The next Wednesday is because the ten-day deadline between submitting nominations, sitting in the electoral committee and choosing itself has not yet been exhausted. Now, for the President, a request. It's after consulting the legislative department. I'd like some more change, just a formal addition to the names of those points. Item number 27 to sound exactly in accordance with its content The proposal to elect members and alternates of the Board of Directors of the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic and item number 28 to make a proposal to choose members and alternate members of the Supervisory Board of the General Health Insurance Corporation. So that's it. To be sure, recapitulation: points 23, 24, 29, 30 and 31, i.e. a secret election, will be fixed today at 12:30 p.m. and points 25, 26, 27 and 28, will be voted by acclamation, firmly ranked on Wednesday 24 January at 12:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, too. Next up, Mr. Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly comment on the proposal for inclusion on the Dublin IV debate programme. KDU-ČSL welcomes this debate, and KDU-ČSL has been conducting it for a long time, but these issues were discussed less than a month ago in the Committee on European Affairs because they were part of the Prime Minister's mandate. The Committee on European Affairs has called on the Prime Minister to inform the Chamber of Deputies, if possible by plenary or at least by committee, which shall subjugate to plenary, as I have mentioned several times here. The Prime Minister has granted. The Prime Minister asked me to convene an extraordinary committee on Thursday to comment on the Council's conclusions, where this, I presume, will be a key issue. On this committee, unlike the House's plenary, experts from the Ministry of Interior and similar institutions will be able to speak up, so that we are equipped with information, so that we know exactly what we are talking about, and that our discussion, which I propose, or virtually. it was designed, and I join it on Friday, it was really responsible and really in the interests of the safety and safety of the citizens of the Czech Republic, not to turn into a potato potato. I therefore propose, or I add to the proposal, that we include the debate on Dublin IV as the first item on Friday. I think the proposal is already here that I am just repeating it, for this reason: so that the committee, which is open to all Members, can discuss it with experts tomorrow. You can come there of course, it is not closed, and then we can have a discussion based on the information thus obtained. [[9.30 hours]] It's a big deal for me. Just so you know, I'm not talking in the wind and I'm not chasing points here, so we've been discussing this in the old composition on the committee on September 22, 2017. The rapporteur for this material was I, namely Ondřej Benešík, and among other things we adopted the following resolutions: he strongly rejects the Commission's proposal for the introduction of the so-called 'Commission'. the adjustment allocation mechanism and the financial contribution of solidarity linked thereto, which it considers inconsistent with the principle of subsidiarity within the meaning of etc., etc. And another part of the resolution, just to let you know that we did not underestimate this: with reference to the above mentioned, it calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to endeavour to remove the correctional allocation mechanism from the text of the proposal and, in the extreme case, to block its overall adoption when discussing the reform of the Dublin Regulation at EU level. So considering that we're welcomers, that the government doesn't solve anything, that she didn't do anything, they're just not true. It is not so, and I think that these resolutions, these intentions, at least that is how I understood it after the meeting of our committee with the new Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who fully applied to this and defended this. So I think we agree here in this House. I only ask that we vote this point first until Friday, when it will sit down a committee to which you have access and which, unlike the House's plenary, experts can come up with. I beg you to think according to common sense. Thank you. . [[Applause from Members of the KDU-ČSL, TOP 09]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. With priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important to discuss this on the Committee on European Affairs, I have no doubt. However, the committee went on, I think it was sometimes December 13th, December 14th. On that day, Prime Minister Babiš left for Brussels for a meeting. And we wanted him to be equipped with this resolution on that day. Some of our Members have already proposed certain resolutions on this committee, and of course all of them have been rejected. I understand that it could have been rejected because it was inappropriately formulated and because anything. But the committee was not in favour of any new resolution. It simply did not provide the committee of Prime Minister Babiš with any resolutions so as to know what the opinion of the committee was, what the opinion of our Members on Dublin VI was. So I understand Mr. Benešík, but I don't really believe it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. I would like to inform my colleagues that we are not in the debate, so I have here some factual point that I cannot comply with. [[To an unnamed MP.]] It wasn't up to you, Mr. Colleague. You've already been on the show. I see you've got another proposal for a meeting. I repeat, this is not a debate. Then I know that Mr. Schwarzenberg checked in with me, but I just want to make sure it was on the agenda. [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Is your application valid for the agenda? Yes. So, Mr. Schwarzenberg. Then, with priority rights, President Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u26	Mr President, honourable Members, it has been said here that we have not only Mr Babiš as a problem that we have many other problems. I totally agree with that. We have big problems to deal with. But another problem is not also the Prime Minister of this country, that is the difference between the other problems that we have and the problems that we have to solve now. Thank you very much. This must be pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u27	I am sorry, my colleague, only to point out that we are actually discussing a programme and that the contribution was outside the framework of the Rules of Procedure. With priority rights, President Bělobrádek is enrolled in the debate. He's jamming his application. Mr. Benešík wants to propose a new point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u28	Mr President, I would quite surprisingly recommend to the House that it reschedule item No. 8 and 9. And on that occasion, I would like to say that with regard to the Dublin IV discussion agenda, the Committee on European Affairs approved the Prime Minister's mandate, which contained exactly what I read here. So, not that we didn't deliver the Prime Minister with any resolutions, but we confirmed him, recommended him, and we called on him to enforce exactly what I read here, and many others. Which I think even SPD colleagues can satisfy. So let's not talk about it here, let's not try to fool the citizens into thinking that we didn't deliver, we didn't discuss, we discussed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u29	I would like to lead you to believe that we are not really in the debate. [[Mr Benešík: And so it was.]] And your proposal to reschedule points number. Eight and nine? [[Fun in the hall. - The designer agrees.]] Okay, I'll take that under advisement. If no one else claims to be on the agenda - President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice, good day. I feel like we're dealing with the program again in some weird cycle. No, I'm not gonna encourage you to work, that's what we're really here for, I guess everyone has to realize that. I just want to point out very Fiala, I think the chairman of the SPD said so. We wanted to get this thing at the House meeting, not just at the committee meeting. We are moving forward in a friendly manner, we want to include this as a mere item in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, not as an extraordinary meeting, for which we have enough signatures and enough signatures. I'm just pointing out in the vote on the inclusion of that item that there's a list of enough signatures for an emergency meeting to be convened. I think it will be more effective to discuss it here at this meeting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking if anyone else wants to be on the agenda. This is not the case, so now we will deal with all the proposals for a vote. First, we will vote on the proposal, as I presented it from the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote, asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number two, 188 Members registered, for 178, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We will now vote as the first to vote on President Bartoš's proposal, which did not propose the inclusion of a new issue point, but there is the previous proposal by Mr Grospič, who came in writing to the House's leadership, the same was proposed by President Bartošek. So I would be the first to vote at all on the inclusion of that item on the agenda, if you agree, by a separate vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 188, for 187, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Furthermore, President Bartoš proposed a firm inclusion of this point, and he specified it as following the Dublin Protocol. At this point, however, we do not yet have a fixed Dublin Protocol and there are two different proposals. Do you agree that we would vote on the second point of today's negotiations? The first is the committee, I remind you. [[Odds from the diaper.]] I should be voting on these proposals as they have been put forward gradually. If there were a greater objection to my action, we could theoretically still carry out an indicative vote. [[9.40 hours]] I see an interest in an indicative vote from the hall. So in the indicative vote, we will vote only in favour, whether we prefer today's term of vote on extradition or not, or on Friday as the first item. With priority rights, Mr. Stanjura. I hope we can make a deal. If the discussion were to be extended in any way, I would ask the club presidents to consult us on further progress. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u32	Mr President, there have been three proposals. That's why I wanted orientation, if there were two, we'd make it pretty simple. One motion was made by President Bartošek today as the second point, one by President Faltýnek on Friday as the first point, and the third by President Bartoš to make it today after Dublin. I think it's best that we vote on Dublin now, there were two options. Thanks to this, all three variants that fell to the term of the point of discussion will be released. It is not quite usual, but if there is no objection, we could first deal with two proposals to include Dublin and then deal with proposals to include extradition. If there was an objection, we must vote three times on the issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. If there is no objection, I have no problem going this way. We would therefore not vote on the agenda as the proposals were put forward, we would leave the vote to the conclusion, for example, and we would therefore now proceed to President Bartošek's proposals on the Dublin Protocol, which proposed it on Friday as the first item. The Dublin Protocol has been classified from the Gremium. We will now vote on whether it will be discussed on Friday as the first item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 4 registered 187 Members, for 74, against 103. The motion was not accepted. We will now proceed in the order of each proposal. The next is the proposal by Vice-President Okamura to include Dublin as the second item today. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In voting order number 5 registered 188 Members, for 120, against 4. The motion was accepted. Now we have Mr. Faltýnek's proposal, which suggested that the issue or not be listed on Friday 19. 1. as the first point. There is a proposal from Mr Bartoš to include this point as a third point today. The first is the commission, the second is Dublin, and the third would be the issue. Is it just two votes? Mr. Bartoš got off first. We should vote first on his proposal. Mr Bartoš's proposal that the extradition or extradition to prosecute members of Faltýnek and Babiš be included as a third item in today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 6 registered 187, for 79, against 83. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore vote on President Faltýnek's proposal to include this item on Friday 19. 1. as the first point of action. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In voting order number 7 registered 188 Members, for 182, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Furthermore, we will vote on the proposals of the President of the Election Commission, Mr Kolovratník, to place the ballot points of the secret elections, as he has said, firmly on Wednesday 17 today. 1st at 12:30. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote order number 8 registered 187 Members, for 182, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Furthermore, Mr Kolovratník suggested that paragraphs 25, 26, 27, 28, i.e. points relating to the Administrative and Supervisory Board of the VZP, be inserted firmly on Wednesday 24. 1st at 12:30. Once again, I stress that this is a choice of members and alternate members for both the Administrative and Supervisory Board. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote serial number 9 registered 187 Members, for 184, against no one. The proposal was also accepted. Finally, we have Mr Benešík's proposal that point 9 on retail selling time be put before point 8 on the real estate acquisition tax. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote order number 10 registered 187 Members, for 45, against 17. This proposal has not been adopted. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] We have dealt with individual proposals. We will now vote on the agenda as amended by the amendments approved as a whole. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. This, too, is a very important vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the approval of the programme as a whole, as amended. Who's against it? In the vote order number 11 registered 187 Members, for 186, against no one. The 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was approved by this. Thank you. We will therefore continue in line with the programme adopted. I'm opening the point first.
