ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u1	12. Government bill on personal data processing / House print 138/ - second reading This is an interrupted point that we discussed on Thursday, 28 June at the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I remind you that we are at second reading and that we have interrupted the discussion of this point, as I said, on 28 June this year at the 16th meeting after the petitioner's speech and all the rapporteurs. The general debate has not yet been opened. I ask that the rapporteur's seat beside the Home Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček be taken up by the rapporteur of the Guaranteed Constitutional Law Committee, Mr Marek Benda. He already did. I remind you that the other rapporteurs, Leo Luzar, Jiří Běhounek, Jiří Bláha, Patrik Nacher and Martin Kupka have already spoken, and we can therefore open a general debate in which I have five applications so far, and I have four applications for a detailed debate. The first party to the general debate is Mr Tomáš Martínek. Mrs Jana Levová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like only briefly to support the amendment tabled by the Election Committee on a journalistic exception for which we as pirát will vote, and I will be happy to have others vote for it. In the next part, I would like to present my amendment concerning House document 579. This is a change in the age limit of the so-called internet age to 13 years compared to the government proposal. The European General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, which is to be implemented into the Czech order, addresses the issue of the processing of teenage data on the Internet, including the age limit of the child, when the consent of the legal representative to the processing of the child's data is necessary. The regulation requires a minimum age limit of 16 years, but allows Member States to reduce this limit to 13 years. According to the Government's draft law on the processing of personal data GDPR, House printing 138, this limit is set at 15 years in accordance with Section 7. [[16.10 hours]] In the detailed part of the explanatory memorandum, reference is made to the new Civil Code, namely § 31, which attribute to the minor such rights as are proportionate to its intellectual and free maturity. Other arguments are the risks of threatening governments that in relation to information technologies, e.g. illegal content, cybershicans and so on. The Pirate Party is 13 years to establish the lowest possible age limit under the General Data Protection Regulation, as stated in the original proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, which was submitted to the Government for discussion. His position is supported by these arguments. First, the child's maturity under the Civil Code. If the petitioner argues with the new Civil Code and § 31, the minor has rights which are proportionate to his intellectual and free maturity. Thus, we believe that the age of 13 is sufficient for an individual to understand all the risks associated with the use of information technology and therefore to have the right to consent to the processing of personal data. We base our claim on the decision of the Constitutional Court of the ÚS 3176/12, which decided on the eligibility of a 12-year-old girl who took advantage of public transport services without buying a ticket. The girl argued that due to her age, she was neither intellectually nor freely developed to assess the content of the contractual fine arrangement and its size. However, the Constitutional Court ruled that if a minor who was 12 years old was fit to travel by herself, she had to be aware of the obligation to pay the fare and the fact that the breach of the contract was linked to the premium on the fare. Although the complainant did not need to know the details of the adjustment of this provision in the contractual conditions of transport, it could and should have been aware of its basic framework. If, according to the Constitutional Court, a 12-year-old child is to be aware of the basic framework of public transport contract conditions, he should be able to understand separately the risks associated with the use of information technology. On the occasion of the International Safer Internet Day in February this year, the National Center for Safer Internet called for 13 years to be set in the Czech Republic, when most children should already be able to assess the risks of social networks. This challenge was also supported by the Czech Council of Children and Youth, whose Chairman Aleš Sedláček points out - I quote: The Czech Council of Children and Youth has carried out a rapid survey in its member organisations and the clear result is to keep the border for 13 years. This conclusion was also published at the Conference of Law and Children in Cyberspace held in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on 15 May 2018. From experience in schools, we know that at least half of the children enter a false date of birth when they are based on Facebook and have their account before they reach 13 years, says Jiří Palyza from the National Centre for Internet Security. However, new rules will be quite easy to circumvent. For example, some Google or Microsoft internet services plan to verify their age using a credit card. However, children under the age of 15 may also have one. Facebook then plans to verify via e-mail, which will enter the child into the profile. However, while the circumvention of the rules now constitutes only a violation of the rules of the network, it will now be illegal, according to GDPR. Two. The right of the child to information. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1989, the State is to secure the child - I quote - access to information and materials from various national and international sources, in particular those aimed at the development of the child's social, spiritual and moral well-being as well as his physical and mental health. Article 17. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to reduce the age limit to the consent of the child to the processing of his data to 13 years. By setting a higher limit, children's access to information will be restricted, which may have a negative effect on their further development. Three. Setting a minimum age limit in other countries of the European Union. If we focus on proposals for the implementation of GDPR in other EU Member States, we will find that 11 states are proposing a minimum age limit to the consent of the child to the processing of his data, i.e. 13 years. Four states, 15-year-old three, have proposed a 14-year-old border. Thus, the largest group of EU states is the lowest possible threshold of 13 years. In 20 EU countries, the GDPR age limit differs from the age limit of criminal liability. Four. Inspiration from discussions during debates on the age limit abroad. According to the US Federal Law 1998 COPPA, i.e. Childrens online privacy protection act, children under the age of 13 cannot legally transmit private data about themselves, only with the express permission of their parents. This was also pointed out in the discussions in Estonia by the Director-General of the Data Protection Inspectorate, who said that there is no reason to believe that young Evropan should be different from American youth in access to different services. The Belgian Minister stated that the 13-year-old border corresponds to the reality of the Internet used by children. Moreover, according to the Commission on the issue of privacy, the use of social media and other services is part of child social development, but action should also be taken on the current education of children and young people on the risks of shared information. According to Polish law, a person who has reached 13 years of age can conclude some minor contracts. It is assumed that a person at this age can conclude some minor side contracts and can manage his or her income, he or she can also give consent to the use of his or her data. There is no fixed age for the conclusion of secondary contracts in Czech legislation. However, it is the decision of the Constitutional Court, see Article 1, which I have already quoted. In December 2016, the Office of the Children's Ombudsman published a report in Ireland on age for digital consent in children to reflect international standards on child rights. National legislation should be approved by adapting to the lower age of digital consent, i.e. 13 years. Five. Support of the business sphere in the Czech Republic. The age limit of 15 years is often mentioned in relation to online services that are often registered for business in another EU Member State, for example Ireland, where the proposal envisages a reduction of the age limit to 13 years. The unnecessary age limit can have a negative impact on entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. In particular, entrepreneurs engaged in offering services to other Member States could have difficulties with complicated implementation of the high age limit into their processes and services, addressing the transfer of the seat to another country or the termination of business. This could also have negative effects on the state budget and employment. For this reason, the proposed proposal supports the business sphere and should help create an optimal business environment in the Czech Republic, which can attract and attract new investors and support Czech entrepreneurs. For this reason, the amendment was also supported by the representative of the Confederation of Industry and Transport Bohuslav Čížek at the meeting of the subcommittee on the business environment. A child aged 13 years is usually sufficiently mature to understand the basics of privacy protection and the risk of providing personal data on the Internet. All the more so if he wants to use the information society service. To assess and decide whether a child is reasonable enough and whether he can assess the consequences of his actions in online space is then the task of parents, not the state. Finally, requiring a child aged 13 to 15 years of age to consent to the use of today's services can be viewed as degrading by children. On the contrary, it is desirable for a young person to learn to navigate the digital world as soon as possible and to adopt the principles of privacy and personal data protection at the lowest possible age. This can only be achieved by being entrusted with responsibility for his privacy and the ability to make his own decisions. Fears that the child will be misled, his consent will be misused or he will be exposed to fraud are not appropriate. The consent to the processing of personal data is not impeccable. It is limited by a number of rules in the regulation itself, as well as by provisions on the protection of personality in the Civil Code. And finally, he can be called off at any time. For all these arguments, I would like to ask you to support this amendment so that the Czech Republic follows the approach of developed countries and allows the development of the business environment in the Czech Republic. Pirates want the Czech Republic to be a European economic tiger. It should therefore set an age limit of 13 years, as should Ireland, Denmark, Estonia, Belgium, Finland, Sweden, Latvia, Spain, Portugal, Great Britain or conservative Poland. Thank you in advance for supporting this proposal. I will sign up for it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u3	I thank Mr Tomáš Martínek. We will continue with the debate, but with the priority right of President Michálek, then only Mrs Levová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to update the amendment in this general debate, House document 1074, which I present and which deals with a unsatisfactory situation in the area of privacy and the protection of the right to information. These two rights go against each other in some parts, and I think it is very wrong that we allow these individual rights to be dealt with in fact by different institutions. Today we have the Office for Personal Data Protection, which only deals with the protection of personal data, privacy. And when there is a conflict with the right to information, for example, someone is asking for some information from an office with personal data in it, this office doesn't decide at all. That's what the courts decide. And I think that since we already have an office with a special, special independent institution that deals with the protection of personal data, we should use it to remove the mess that actually originated here because some things are partly being dealt with in court, some things in part at the office, and that this office should also be entrusted with the scope of protection of the right to information. We are dealing with a whole range of practice cases where the right to information is trampled on, and it is now particularly up to date in the context of municipal elections, where some authorities simply refuse to give information. Of course, we cannot accept the opposite extreme, which is a case where some applicants overwhelm self-government with unnecessary requests for information and thereby exploit the capacity of the government. This is a matter that should also be dealt with in the long term. It is precisely by building some long-term administrative practice that it would be appropriate to address the Office for Personal Data Protection within the framework of the right to information. So I think that these two lines, which are split today, would be a good idea to unify systemically. It is in about 13 countries of the European Union, where they have a specialised information right institution, thus applicants who do not receive information do not immediately turn to the court, but there is some independent institution that they go to before. So there's not too much to worry about in lawsuits where the courts are already extremely overloaded today, and they're constantly calling for us to divert their agenda to administrative authorities, which would shade a large part of these lawsuits. I will, of course, present the proposal in detail and read it in a detailed debate, but in the general debate, I wanted to point out that it would be logical to resolve it and unify it so that it would be handled under one roof. The Office for Personal Data Protection has no problem with this. I think that, as a result, it will also save costs, or the courts will be able to focus on things that are more important, and citizens will not have to wait in court for so long because the courts are swamped by lawsuits on the right to information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u5	I thank Mr Michálek. And now, Mrs Levová with a proper application, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Madame, before I give you my word, I will read the apology received. The President of the Chamber of Deputies from 17.30 to 19.00 apologizes for working reasons, Mr Adam Kalous, from 16.00 to the end of the sitting day for health reasons, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Dominik Feri apologizes from 16 to 19.00 for work reasons. Now, Mrs Jana Levová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my fellow Members, because in a detailed debate, I will sign up for my amendment number 977, press 138, so I would like to introduce you to him now. My amendment to the Government's draft law on the processing of personal data, that is to print 138, is, like Amendment 850, about exceptions for the purposes of scientific and historical research and statistical purposes. Compared to the above proposal number 850, which is good and useful, I decided to insert in § 6 para. Article 9 (1) (a) shall apply mutatis mutandis. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Why would I want to do § 16 para. 1 put this sentence in, I will now explain. I specifically wanted to regulate the legality of the processing of special categories of personal data without consent, provided that such processing is necessary for research purposes. I also wanted to underline that there are cases where the interests of the controller of personal data on their processing significantly outweigh the interests of the data subject not to process such data. For example, I'm talking about clinical trials. It is currently unclear whether consent is necessary or not to process personal data in clinical trials. Jasno probably doesn't even have an SÚKL and the Office for Personal Data Protection, who, according to my information, are looking for a common position. The legal nature of the processing in the law would clearly define that processing in the scope of the protocol is possible without the consent of the evaluation body, provided, of course, that all existing obligations and guarantees are fulfilled. I believe that if you support this amendment of mine, together we will help science and clinical studies, in which, for example, in clinical cancer studies, we are very successful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u7	Thank you, Mrs Jana Levová. And now, Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mr Karel Rais will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you my amendment, which is being held in the system under 1303, and I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Let me state that the Government's proposal for a law on the processing of personal data submitted to the Chamber of Deputies does not distinguish the subjects of offences, as originally announced by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. The original proposal, which was submitted to the Government, envisaged a reduction in the maximum amount of the fine for infringements for municipalities which do not exercise the delegated powers within the scope of the municipal authority of the municipality with extended competence, a voluntary association of such municipalities, a contribution organisation established by such a municipality or a legal person carrying out the activities of a school or school establishment established by a municipality or a voluntary association of municipalities to CZK 5,000 or CZK 15,000 respectively. The mayors and independent with the wording of this government proposal, which was sent to the Chamber of Deputies, disagreed and rejected the arguments of the Legislative Council of the Government. That is why we have been thinking about how to adapt this text. The initial legislation of our amendment is the Austrian legislation contained in the implementing act issued on 31 July 2017 to the General Data Protection Regulation. In Article 30, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 5 states that - in translation - a financial penalty cannot be applied to public authorities and public bodies. According to our conviction, it is necessary for municipalities and their established organisations to be protected from the threat of high to liquidation fines, and therefore two variants of the amendment to the Government's draft law on the processing of personal data were initially tabled. The first variant is the Austrian model modified for Czech legislation. The second option partially contains the promised compromise by the Ministry of the Interior. Our original amendment was intended to cover not only the municipalities of the first and second levels, but also the municipalities of the third degree, i.e. the municipalities with extended scope. Based on the discussion held in the Chamber of Deputies, we are presenting this revised amendment, which allows the possibility of imposing reduced sanctions only for the municipalities of the first and second types, while also seeing greater social harm committed through the media, for which in this case the possibility of imposing sanctions would be up to CZK 15,000. [[16.30 hours]] What led us to do so? One. The Government went to the proposal of the Ministry of Interior, which concerned municipalities called. the first and second types, with this reduction of sanctions being quite sufficient and that the municipalities of the third type have sufficient apparatus to cope with the problem and GDPR. In our first amendment, the Ministry expressed a fundamental disagreement with the reduction of fines for municipalities of the third type. But what happened in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development? In repeated discussions, when the Ministry of the Interior expressed a fundamental disagreement with our proposal concerning the municipality of the third type, another proposal came in which fines would be reduced not only to the municipalities of the first and second types, but also to the regions and their contribution organisations. What surprised us was the populist pursuit of the various amendments and the struggle for whose amendment wins. What also struck us was repeated several times the fundamental change in the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, when the initial permissible reduction of fines only for the municipalities of the first and second types was suddenly not a problem for the fines to be reduced also for the regions and their contribution organisations. I don't think that's how laws should be made. Therefore, the Mayors and the Independents submit that amendment which corresponds to the originally agreed proposal between the Ministry of Interior and the self-government, i.e. the Association of Local Authorities, which will cover the reduction of fines for the municipalities of the first and second degree. We consider this reasonable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Mr Karel Rais will now appear, Mr Valenta will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u10	Thank you. Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Mr President, colleagues, I would like to start from the end. I would follow up on Mrs. Kovářová's fine system. We have discussed several amendments with the Ministry of Education, and the one I would like to talk about here is the amendment under the House press 683, which reduces the fine for university for violating GDPR to 100 000. CZK for a specific case of infringement. When I look at the text, this is the nucleus. In essence, it is a question of the fact that, like my colleague Kovářová, I also take the view that the current wording of the government bill does not sufficiently reflect the possibility of mitigating sanctions for public bodies belonging to universities. And universities, in connection with the administration of studies and all activities, use the electronisation agenda to a large extent, with most of them still lacking support in the higher education law. This is also one of the reasons why I am putting this amendment here. The proposal aims to mitigate the effects of the European Parliament Regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, on the free movement of such data. This proposal was basically supported by the Council of Higher Education Legislative Commissions, and the management of Charles University has spoken about it and is supported by these Stakeholders. We discussed the position of the Ministry of Education with them, here this amendment, and they do not see any major problem. The second amendment I had was an amendment relating to archive work and reducing the obligation for researchers, researchers and statistics in the field of GDPR. This very similar amendment has given the wider scope to my colleague Válková, so I will not apply for it. This is about this House press. I have two further amendments to the Parliamentary press 139. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u11	I thank Mr Karel Rais. Now, Mr Jiří Valenta and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Although I have already performed at first reading on this bill, since several possible purposefully hidden contexts have appeared since then, I really need to vote on the whole standard personally, to clarify and at the same time disprove some general suspicions. I therefore ask the representative of the petitioners, specifically the Minister of the Interior, whether it is true that the Ministry of the Interior tried to quickly push through the House of such supplements in this implementing law, which should be even more stringent than the Brussels GDPR regulation itself. Would you, Minister, please state at this point what these tightening measures are? I also noted some suspicions that some information should, on the contrary, be kept secret by Czech politicians and officials. Specifically, according to some experts, the Ministry of the Interior wants for example. disable information about any breach of the obligations of the Czech Republic towards the European Union. This, in my opinion, is very dangerous, for example. and the investigation into possible grant fraud. Cops or secret services would thus be given new authorization to conceal information not only about their actions, which, of course, can be in some ways and in justified cases in order, but for example. as well as what cars they buy or what rewards their service officials receive or what the costs of recreation of employees, their education etc. are. Is it okay, then, that some such improvements have been added to the law by the government in a sort of subtle way, with the fact that it will now be adopted headlessly under the cover of the EU regulation and under pressure from the public in the House? Perhaps the hottest such strangely implanted novelty should be my already mentioned restriction, which would allow responsible Czech officials to conceal information about the breach of obligations that the Czech Republic has towards the European Union. According to the Ministry of the Interior's reasoning, this practically almost sticker should be so wide that it will be possible to imagine anything under it. Officials could download this way for example. as well as the management that the European Union and the Czech Republic can initiate because it did not respect forced quotas for the reception of refugees, which the Ministry of the Interior generally justifies by the fact that there may be information that could jeopardise the protection of the interests of the Czech Republic abroad. But such protection is already remembered by existing Czech legislation. And such a would-be protectionist completely counterproductive ministerial reasoning would then contrast sharply with the fact that there is a strong public interest, in order to publish as much information as possible about each of our disputes with the European Union. Dear Minister, I ask you, is there really something similar in this law that I have now indicated and what some media actually confirm, whether explicitly mentioned or in some more or less hidden form, is it or does it exist? I would also like to reiterate on this subject that the Czech Government's Garniture in preparing the related national legislation has really fallen asleep reprehensibly, and it is indifferent whether it is now calling this issue into question or silent to it. In both cases, he is thus acting out of his own responsibility. And it is with several hands the previous Sobotkův government and the current, specifically directly responsible apparatus of the Ministry of the Interior, but for the sake of completeness I must add that by its laxity and some would-be comforting or inappropriate statements also the Czech Commissioner Jourová. [[16.40 hours]] According to the latest information, e.g. full of two thirds of Czech e-shops - and they are the most resident in Europe - are not even ready for GDPR yet, are confused and send to customers various, often bizarre requests for permission for transmission and manipulation of personal data. The whole of one fifth of companies did not even know that the regulation would apply on 25 May, and that is the worst result from 17 European countries surveyed between 3,400 companies. Awareness was indeed very low and thus the necessary atmosphere of the positive reception of comprehensive data protection was not created in society. This is once again a fundamental mistake of the state, namely our government, as communication on the subject of commercial entities, training providers and consultancy activities has been abandoned in this regard. I ask again why and for what reason. I would also like to ask whether it is true that Deloitte estimates that the cost of introducing new rules could rise to CZK 10 billion in the Czech Republic, which seems to me personally to be an astronomical amount, and how this will be incorporated into the state budget. But I really would not like to criticize only because I am in a way a supporter of the new European regulation. For example, I like the right to be forgotten when companies will be obliged to delete all personal data of the person on request or the right to information that companies will be obliged to inform their clients what they are doing with their data. People should also have the right to correction, which means that the data controller must correct inaccurate or outdated data without undue delay or ensure free data transmission on demand for competition. Last but not least, companies and institutions will have to report cases of data leaks to the Office of Personal Data Protection within 72 hours of detection. Not only for these reasons, in order to support the draft national legislation specifying GDPR with a clean heart, I need to know your answers to the questions asked. I believe, Minister, that your answer will satisfy me, and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u13	I thank Mr Jiří Valent. Mr. Home Secretary, Deputy Prime Minister is reporting with priority rights. My colleague Bláha volunteered later than I started giving the floor to the Minister. So I'm going to record his factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u14	Dear Member, I have listened carefully to your reservations. However, I believe that most of the reservations that have been mentioned here do not concern this press, but press 139, which is the implementing law, and therefore the debate is irrelevant at this point and we can return to it on the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u15	I thank the Minister of the Interior, Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček. Mr Jiří Bláha's point of view now. My colleague Kaňkovský is patient. I'm sure it's his turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u16	Dear colleagues, I would like to assure my colleague, through the President, that we have all been able to do something for GDPR for companies. I opened the question at the end of November and called on the Economic Committee for individual representatives of the Economic Committee to do something about it. And believe that the response was mostly neutral, which means no one really wanted to deal with it. So let's not just ask the government to answer, but first of all, we should think about ourselves. We have had two years to read and familiarize ourselves with the necessary amendment, of course, as Members who were here. If you went into consequence and read it, you'd find that the company didn't actually have much to do with the new responsibilities. Whoever followed the 100th was de facto in no way in trouble, because as far as the personnel area is concerned, it is a legal obligation. GDPR does not apply to business relationships, it is the same thing. GDPR does not apply. As far as employees are concerned, up to 250 employees in companies, that is, for companies employing less than 250 employees, there is a legal exception to the normal agenda. So if you're not selling data and you're acting a little responsible in some way, you don't have a problem with GDPR. So I'd just like to point out to my colleague that he's more interested in the things that have been going on around GDPR. If he'd followed me, he'd have found out that I'd done a one-page instruction manual for the firm, and he'd be familiar with a series of questions he was asking here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u17	Thank you, Mr Bláh, for keeping time to a point of fact. Now a factual comment from my colleague, Jiří Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u18	I'm just being purely honest, I'm not gonna hold up. Of course, I agree with the Minister. But the connection is mutual with the two standards submitted. So I'm not going to be on that next point anymore, so I'm just going to give you some space to find out the answers to my questions, because of course these are specific things, and I don't think you're going to be able to get them ready from the point of view. And to my colleague Bláh. Of course, I registered his activities, but I don't know if his one-page elaborate can ultimately address the whole wide issue of GDPR.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We will continue with Mr Vít Kaňkovský's speech. Mr Profant will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u20	Good evening. Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, ministers, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, the issue of GDPR with its impact on the public sector was dealt with by KDU-ČSL in particular with regard to sanction mechanisms long before the Government's draft law on the processing of personal data came. At a number of levels, we have held discussions across the Republic, seminars with representatives of local politicians, but also other representatives of the public on the issue of the impact of the entire GDPR agenda and, in particular, on the impact of sanction mechanisms on smaller and medium-sized municipalities as well as on certain other public bodies. That's what I'd like to say in the beginning. This is also illustrated by our parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the existing Personal Data Protection Act No. 101/2000 Coll., which we have prepared and presented here in the House, respectively. We've asked for his inclusion several times, which hasn't happened. We also announced at first reading on this government draft law on the processing of personal data that we would prepare an amendment to address sanctions in particular towards central and small municipalities. We have observed this, so today, in the context of a detailed debate, we will read our amendment. Unlike other amendments, we are going the Austrian way, we are going the way of the Austrian model, when we are trying to fully activate Article 83 (2) of the Treaty. 7 Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council excluding public authorities and public bodies from the scope of sanctions. We want to stress that the effects of GDPR are significant, and as I have already said here, especially on smaller and medium-sized municipalities and some other public bodies, because the GDPR agenda is very difficult for them both financially and personally, and above all it is beyond their strength due to their size. I firmly believe that this amendment will be subject to expert discussion in the committee, in the guarantee committee, between second and third readings, and I firmly believe that what can work in Austria can also work successfully in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u21	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. And yet let me read the apology of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from today's meeting from 15.45 until the end of the House's meeting for business reasons. Now, Mr Profant. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u22	Dear Members, honoured by the public, we as pirát oppose amendments that drastically restrict fines for some part of the bodies to which the law applies. We understand that a slight reduction can make sense. But what is often proposed here is really problematic. In particular, the proposal of the Public Administration Committee under number 138/8, or what Mr Kaňkovský has proposed now, when it is almost complete removal of self-government, because the regions simply deal with a huge amount of personal data and very often in self-government - for example, the database of Lítáčka or Opencard in Prague is exactly the case. And you're trying to give them a blank check here so they can do anything to sell it etc. the moment the price of such personal data increases thanks to GDPR. However, this view is not just for us, but it was clearly said by the Legislative Council of the Government, which wrote: The difference in the amount of sanctions is, however, so marked that such legislation cannot be accepted. [[16.50 hours]] We were talking about a significantly higher amount than that proposed by press 138/8 from the Public Administration Committee. This regulation is at the limit of constitutionality, and we are very likely to be willing to test it through the Constitutional Court. But not just that. What about the business environment? We are threatening them with sanctions of EUR 20 million here, but will we charge a penalty of CZK 10,000 to our self-governments, which, for example, have a 50-billion-dollar budget? Does that seem appropriate to you? I would also like to appeal to Mr Rais, through Mr President, that universities are also very large subjects who may be able to tidy up their personal data and not pass them on. I have nothing against the digitization of school processes, although I don't think there's any need for a law, but once again a $100,000 fine for universities with billions of budgets doesn't seem appropriate to me at all. On the questions raised here by Mr Valenta, I will comment on the next point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u23	I thank Mr Ondřej Profant for his speech. Now, Mr Leo Luzar's speech, which is the last one entered into the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first ask if there is a joint debate on paragraph 13. It'll be special. So I will limit my comments only to Parliament's press 138. Allow me to introduce you to my amendments, which I have taken the liberty of presenting and which are laid down in Article 2 concerning journalistic exceptions in general, please take the obligation to create a so-called code. A code of conduct, which would have data that have full protection of this law - and actually journalists have no obligation to publish anything at all, can declare any information as a journalistic secret, as we may have encountered it, maybe some of us, that lawyers also have absolute confidentiality, that they do not even have to say who their client is. In fact, the same may appear in this view in journalists. Therefore, I would suggest that a point be put into the law which would order the creation of a so-called code of operation of personal data management for these entities, as well as its ability to control the Office for Personal Data Protection, of this code of conduct for these organisations, as they are mostly large media houses with quite large data content and personal data that they collect. That is one amendment. The second amendment I am proposing may be slightly smiling, but I would like to point it out briefly. In Title 5, in the seat of the office, there is talk of the capital city of Prague. I am here to propose an amendment to establish this seat of the Office in the statutory city of Ostrava. In the long term, we are talking about the decentralization of the state administration and the participation of the regions in the functioning of the state. I think it is a good example of Brno as a statutory city, which has taken over a higher level of judicial power from the Constitutional Court starting with the following courts. It is a good example of how government can make a very good contribution to the functioning of cities other than Prague. Brno has become the centre of legal functions and I would like to achieve this proposal that Ostrava should become the seat of information technology, security and these matters. Mining College and Technical University are ready for this. And also the city of Ostrava is ready to provide buildings and other things. So low costs associated with the establishment of this office are assumed here. Of course it will come to a certain, say, resistance of officials used to always reside in Prague, but I think that trying to break the tradition that the central office must be required in Prague could be considered. I'm curious to see how you, colleagues, can deal with this. Other matters concern the regulation of international cooperation. But I'm not going to burden you with that, it's going to be decided by the vote, and it's not, in my opinion, such a pointless thing to do. The next proposal I propose may be considered. I admit that it will also require some reasoning in the context of what has been said here, concerning certain sanctions procedures. There were words about municipalities, regions, and there were words about universities. I would like to emphasise one thing here that we may not want to express too much, but I think it is equally important, and these are the political parties. Every slightly more numerous political party or movement that collects the data of its members has them in some kind of register, they use them on posters, they show their photos, they have them, they have a huge responsibility for handling these personal data. The right to be forgotten, the right to be erased - and who has ever kept a record of a member organisation or the like - will surely be right to say that this is quite problematic. But, above all, it turns out that it could also be problematic in the abuse of this institute and sanctions and fines against my political party, which I broke up with in a bad way, and I can point out some of the things about my person that are published somewhere, and I don't want them to be put together with this political party anymore. Surely everyone can imagine these problems in their practice and could prove to be a general problem. Here I would like to draw attention to this problem in this amendment and, of course, I assume that the processors will face this. Some proposals have already been made for committee discussions, but unfortunately, the appellants have not been dragged to any successful end concerning these very political parties. Rather, they held on to the fact that there was no danger that the political parties were out of line, that it was completely sideways. But unfortunately, experience with other laws, which, although claimed the same, ended up quite strict and experience with the financing of the political parties and this office, which was created and should also be a rather supportive supervisory body, but ultimately focused on sanctions, and many political parties have already felt it in their cash registers, urge us to have increased caution on this matter. I will sign up for specific numbers in a detailed debate. And I also have a change to House press 139, but that's on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u25	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. He raised two factual points. The first is Mr Marian Jurečka and then Mr Marek the Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u26	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, I have noted here in the current debate the criticisms of some of you that there is proposed by the KDU-ČSL club to remove a group of stakeholders from sanctions in the case of GDPR. It is not that these entities are not obliged to comply with the law, but we would really take advantage of what gives us the right of the European Union here that we can afford not to impose sanctions on certain entities. Some here mentioned that it was something unsystemic, something unusual. I would like to remind you here that even our Constitution, our legislation knows the moments when obligations are imposed, it is expected that the person will behave according to the law without necessarily being given financial sanctions. When I mentioned the Constitution, for example, I will start with the President's office, where duties are simply given, but sanctions are not appointed, and they may end up on the other hand with the question of our administrative order, which also imposes obligations. There is no need for financial penalties in the event of non-compliance, but it is possible to deal with these matters by agreement. So please, let's not always live in captivity that every time we figure something out, we must immediately impose sanctions on a subject. Let us also use once as the Czech Republic that we need not be more papal than Brussels. Let's look at the neighbors in Austria, where they applied this completely fine. So I'd like you to understand these things, that we don't always have to be the claw with the whip, but that we can also expect the subjects to be aware of their responsibilities without the need for a financial penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek Výborný's point of fact now, Mr Jiří Bláha has another point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something similar in principle. And more importantly, let's think about where the whole GDPR directive we're implementing is headed. It is intended to prevent and reduce the trade in data. And do we really think that the public entities, the small municipalities, are the ones that would like to do business with the data in some way? I really believe that the mentality that may have survived here before 1989, that where there is no whip or sanction, no one will fulfill their obligations that it would be good to overcome this mentality a little bit. And perhaps that too is the obvious reason why the European directive allows us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u29	Good afternoon. With another factual remark, Mr Bláha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to reassure you that last September a working committee which dealt with GDPR met precisely this issue, i.e. the problem of fines or measures or penalties, and this has resulted in a document, a recommendation on how the controllers should proceed. And there's no way that there's a word that they should be fined by some substantial amounts, even there are sentences where it's directly said that every supervisory authority should consider whether the violation was negative or conscious if someone was knowingly selling data, etc., etc. I've been looking for this document all along so I can tell you exactly what it's like. About six pages have been prepared for this, as the possible control should proceed, how it should assess possible errors. So we don't really have to worry about that. And believe me, if you were interested in this problem, you would have come to all the knowledge I've come to. We're making a mess of it for nothing. And I personally think that if we all approach GDPR the way we were supposed to approach it to a hundred percent, no one will have any problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u31	Thank you. Mr Staněk will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. I am very sympathetic to my colleague Luzar's efforts to transfer cyber security to Ostrava. I would just like to remind you that we already have cyber security in Brno, there is the National Cyber and Information Security Office, so on the other hand, it seems logical for me to expand one center, not for us to build more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u33	Thank you. Mr Benda has entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Ministers, Vice-President, so a few brief remarks. First, therefore, the Office for Personal Data Protection is not really about cyber security or just very sideways. I wouldn't be entirely involved. The second thing I wanted to say about my colleague Valent, who criticized here that the government bill did not contain all the exceptions, we talked about this quite comprehensively at first reading. It was subject to broad criticism, but, of course, on the head of the previous minister, I can hardly put it on the shoulders of this minister, who was not even a member of the government at the time they presented it. And I think that on the ground of all committees, we have succeeded in using the possibilities that the European regulation gives us - and there is the main problem that this is a regulation - the possibilities that the European Data Protection Regulation gives us to use to the maximum possible extent for private entities that are moving in the Czech Republic. Of course, it means a number of new responsibilities for them, for each processor it means a number of new responsibilities. Let's not pretend it isn't. And these expenses are estimated, I don't know, in tens of billions of crowns, but at least in many billion crowns. And that's private spending, that's not public budget spending. The last thing I wanted to say in this general part of the debate on what has been said is the debate on public corporations, in particular municipalities and regions, and whether or not they should be removed or at least limited from the fine obligation. The Constitutional Committee has approved the general principle of opportunity which applies to each body and which states: for each body, if the Authority finds that the measures proposed by it mean improving the situation and there is no need to impose a fine, it will not impose such a fine and will not even initiate proceedings. It's really an effort, but for all subjects, not just those public sector subjects, but for every private person, if I come in, I say, "You don't have a closet closed, you should have a locker locked." He says, "I'm sorry, I'm buying the lock, I'm putting the lock on the closet, I've already locked it tomorrow. We can imagine the same thing with computers and a lot of other things. Then it is not necessary to impose fines, and then, according to the principle of opportunity, the Office can postpone at all, abandoning the initiation of a sanction procedure. At the same time, however, the Constitutional Committee did not approve quite clearly the exception with which the Public Administration Committee came, and here we can see the different views of the various committees, where the Committee on Public Administration logically defends the public authorities, whether they are municipalities or regions, and the Constitutional Committee defends the holistic view of the law and the rule of law. The Constitutional Committee did not approve the exception which was intended to impose special fines on certain public bodies. And the reason is pretty simple. For private entities, we are unable to reduce the fines. There they are really at risk of up to four percent of the turnover, a fine invented in the European Parliament against Facebook and Googles that will never be used. It's such a chimera, but it's still very scary here, and yet it can lead the fines up to some relatively high level. We can't approach this reduction for private entities, and it seems wrong for us to say: Well, those public entities that actually deal with large volumes of data in a number of cases, we're going to somehow remove and guarantee them that the fine can't be more than - and now I don't know, it doesn't really matter if 10, 50 or 100 thousand, basically they're always ridiculous amounts. That it will not only correspond to how the administrative authority will assess and, if necessary, to the administrative court, which is appropriate to the situation, but that there will be a ceiling. That some countries of Europe, and that is why it is in the European Data Protection Regulation, some countries of Europe do not impose sanctions on one another between public authorities, but that is not the case with the Czech Republic. In this respect, the Czech Republic holds the regions and municipalities as bodies governed by public law, as entities which can, of course, commit an offence, can commit a number of other acts and therefore are subject to penalties in all other areas. It really seems unusual and strange to us that, at a time when private law entities are threatened with those fines and must threaten only at the level set by the General Data Protection Regulation, we should somehow exempt public law entities. So much for that, but we will undoubtedly decide at the third reading in the vote. And I think everyone involved knows where the debate is. I understand both sides of the debate, but I was just trying to explain the position that prevailed on the C.E.A.P. The last thing I would like to justify briefly is a proposal to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. In addition to the technical changes that have been made in the law, things that I have not won and I understand that I will not win, yet I intend to sign up in a detailed debate to a proposal that aims to prevent us from abandoning the existing system of management of the Office for Personal Data Protection and not going to the monocratism proposed by the Government. I consider it basically a fundamental mistake for such a key office to say: The Senate chooses one head once every five years, then it is responsible for everything for five years, it chooses its vice-chairmen itself, they are approved by the Senate, but it really chooses them itself, and the moment any problem happens, it is simply untouchable and there is nothing to be done about it. [[17.10 hours]] I felt that the current model of the Director of the Office for Personal Data Protection and Inspectors, who created a bit of tension, which may have increased in recent years until they began to argue so much that one or the other wanted to resolve the problem for the benefit of its part of the office, that it was more viable and that it gave hope that there would be some internal dialogue and it would not be managed too uniformly in the future. That is why, in a detailed debate, I will also sign up for this proposal and, of course, we will deal with it at third reading. But I would consider it dishonest if I didn't, and in five, ten, maybe in fifteen years there will be a problem, so I can't say: I told you, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u35	I thank Mr Benda. No one is registered for the general debate anymore. Anyone from the scene, please? No. I am ending the general debate. Is there any interest in the final words of the rapporteur or the appellant? There is no interest, so I am opening up a detailed debate. I would remind you that the amendments or other proposals you make in the detailed debate must be justified. Mr Martínek, to whom I hereby give the floor, is entered into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u36	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to sign up for this amendment, the House document under number 579, which is uploaded to the press. It is an amendment which, as I have already justified here in the general debate, changes the age limit of Internet age from 15 to 13 years. I think I have justified this quite in detail and that there were strong enough arguments to support this, so I ask you once more to support this meaningful proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u37	Thank you. Mrs Levová and Mrs Kovářová will speak next in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read my written amendment to House Press 138, which is registered as House Document 977. This is an amendment to the Government's draft law on the processing of personal data, i.e. printing 138, concerning exceptions for scientific and historical research purposes and for statistical purposes. This amendment explicitly regulates the legality of the processing of specific categories of personal data without the consent of the data subject. I want to ask once again for the support of this amendment of mine, so that together we can help people who are working on scientific and historical research. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u39	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová will now speak in a detailed debate, followed by Mr Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to our amendment, which is being conducted in the system under number 1303. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u41	Thank you. Mr Rais's speech follows, followed by Mr Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u42	Thank you. Allow me to sign up for the amendment, which is conducted as House document 683, and it is an amendment to press 138. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u43	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Kaňkovský, followed by President Michálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I have announced, I would like to sign up for an amendment to the Parliamentary Press 138. It is an amendment introduced in the system under the number of House document 1082, and as far as the subject matter of this amendment is concerned, I refer to the general debate and the other detailed reasoning is in the document itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u45	Thank you. President Michálek and the last one entered into a detailed debate is Mr Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby refer to the amendment introduced in the system under number - House document 1074. It is a proposal to extend the scope of the Office for Personal Data Protection on the protection of the right to information. Now I would briefly describe its contents. Firstly, it extends to general scopes such as the provision of consultations and similar services, the scope not only for the protection of personal data but also for the area of the right to information that is essentially related to it. Even the Supreme Administrative Court has published a brochure called Between Skylla and Charybda, which now describes the right to information on the one hand and the protection of personal data on the other. The Supreme Administrative Court also called this a brochure, but more precisely it is a collection from a scientific conference at which representatives from administrative courts throughout Europe and among other things presented the results of their practice that the protection of personal data and at the same time the protection of the right to information is under one roof, and those results are positive according to these foreign representatives. That is why I think we should take over here as well as in our national regulation. The specific adjustment is that the Authority would have obtained a relatively narrow scope. We didn't go in the way that the Bureau decided on appeals, it had a wide scope. It could, in fact, only intervene in the form of a review procedure, which means that final decisions are being reviewed, which have already been decided in the second instance. This means that it would not interfere with the existing hierarchy of state administration and procedures under the information law, and, secondly, the scope of action should be to take action against inactivity unless a correction can be obtained from a superior administrative body. This means, if someone asks for information, the office is inactive, the appeal administration is also inactive, so nowadays there will be nothing left but to file an action for inaction, while here it would be possible to solve this specific case with the office, and therefore not to overwhelm the courts with this material. The last point that concerns this is a change in the qualification regime, because if the authority actually obtained this competence, and I generally think that the qualifications requirements for the chief and vice-chairman of that office are overrated in order to have only legal education. I'm a lawyer, but I don't think so, virtually. there's still some computer science or something like that, but I think there's a whole range of other professions, I don't know, when someone's studying ethics and is dedicated to the protection of personal data or the provision of information for ten years and a long time, so I think there should be a possibility for this person to apply or apply in the same way. I think today it's only set up for lawyers and informatics, so it's unnecessarily narrowing down and we can lose our high-quality candidates. So please consider supporting this proposal - House document 1074. It is good practice in a number of EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u47	Thank you. Mr Luzar, after him, Mr Benda, in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. I report to Parliament's press 138 on the amendment in the system under number 922. - Please note that it is composed of two parts, and I would like those two parts, which means the code and the seat of the office, to be divided in the context of the processing by the petitioner. - And the second amendment, which is under number 923. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u49	Thank you. The rapporteur, Benda, in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u50	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to sign up for my amendment under House document 1078.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-003-012.u51	Thank you. No one's logged in for a detailed debate, anybody from the scene? It's not like that. I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? It's not. There was no proposal that we should vote on, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. [[17.20 hours]] Initiating item discussion
