ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u1	102. Information of the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment on bark sludge in the Czech Republic Please let the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman and the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec take the floor gradually. So, Minister, I'm gonna ask you to perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, fellow Members of the Government. I would like to begin by stressing that I would like to thank the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment for the inclusion of the item on bark sludge in the Czech Republic at today's meeting. I believe that this calamity, which the Czech Republic is currently facing, is the biggest cruststorm that has ever occurred on our territory, but its consequences are also a problem with the social impact. The fact that Czech forests have been faced with the effects of crust sludge multiplied by extremely adverse climatic phenomena of recent years has been and has recently been the focus of all media, environmental organisations, professional public, academic communities, as well as many citizens and their interest associations. We must realise that the calamity is currently massively affected by seven regions and we are working with them in direct cooperation with established regional calamity crews. In these areas, due to the extent of the impact, the aim is to slow as much as possible the decay of spruce crops and in the rest of our republic we must concentrate on stopping the next process of barking. As much as I believe that we are witnessing in practice the effects of ongoing climate change, I would like to make it clear that in times past, there have been some forestry-related errors that have contributed to the escalation of the current situation. Most of them, however, can be attributed to certain systemic steps, but these fall back to the last century. And I can assure you that, as Minister of Agriculture, in view of the seriousness of the situation, I am not going to take out any cheap ortels at this time, but I will devote my work and efforts to making us, and I hope with joint efforts, manage to reverse this unfavorable situation and return the form of Czech forests to what we were historically used to, i.e. into compositions of species-wide forests and fulfilling all the functions of the forest, not only the production, but also the water protection, soil protection, but also recreational. It must be noted that the exceptionality of the current calamity requires, and undoubtedly this will also be the case in the coming times, emergency measures. In my next speech, I would very much like to focus on the steps that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken and will take in cooperation with the other central authorities. The extent of the existing barking sludge, respectively. the possibilities of its solution will be reflected mainly in the demands on human, processing and storage capacities, and for the sake of simplification of the situation I present these circuits in parallel with the process of treatment of sludge wood. As far as human capacity is concerned, we currently lack mainly for mining and related activities in the forests of 6,000 workers, both qualified, i.e. to operate machinery, as well as professions of unqualified auxiliary. And given the unfavourable development of the domestic labour market, the main possible solution is the involvement of workers from abroad, preferably from language-compatible countries. Here I must say that we are working with the Ministry of the Interior, where the project of simplified authorisation of the entry of third-country citizens into the territory of the Czech Republic is being implemented, in order to obtain the necessary workforce for the effective disposal of this calamity. We also deal with representatives of various associations, such as: Association of Roma Entrepreneurs and Associations in the Czech Republic. Their offer is currently mainly directed to the area most affected by the Moravian-Silesian Region and I will personally have a meeting with this association on Thursday this week. As far as mining is concerned, the state-owned forest management company Lesa ČR uses bark sludge as the largest forest manager in the state of existing contractual relations, in the form of so-called. optimization of mining capacity utilisation, in practice, means their concentration in the most affected areas, using the maximum possible rate of increase of mining activity in the calamity areas, so that mining in the contract territorial units concerned is carried out up to 140 per cent of the planned amount of mining, i.e. That's the contract, the auction and the dynamic purchasing system. For your information, for January to May this year, a total of 3.9 miles were processed in the Forests of the Czech Republic. cubic meters of wood and 935 thousand of it. Cubs of barkwood. As far as rendering is concerned, an integral and unforgettable part of the destruction of bark sludge is called. the rendering of the affected wood which prevents the further spread of the pest. This consists either of debarking, which is done by peeling the bark of the strain of the affected tree or by chemical rendering by spraying or packaging into insective networks. At this time, the Ministry of Agriculture has provided a derogation for the use of EDN products in connection with this year's calamity for a period of 120 days, i.e. fumigation as a form of large volume rendering. We are currently monitoring the increased demand for these chemical preparations for rendering, which leads to their current market shortage, and therefore, as the Ministry of Agriculture, we have opened negotiations with distributors of chemical rendering products and the subject of negotiations that will take place on 20 July this year, will be the solution to the order for the rest of this year's season and to ensure the market for these preparations for the following year. Here I must point out that the barkworm cannot be successfully combated without the rendering carried out, which, however, is financially demanding for forest owners, and therefore the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared a proposal for an amendment to the Government's regulation on granting a contribution to forest management and has proposed a new subsidy title for non-state owners precisely for the rendering of the affected wood matter. The grant title will support all types of rendering and for 2019 represents an increase in the existing volume of available financial resources of state contributions by CZK 500 million primarily intended for the purchase of these rendering funds or the restoration of the forest. These funds amount to 650 million this year. CZK and next year this amount will be equal to 1 billion. 150 miles. Crowns. [[15.10 hours]] As far as transport is concerned, timber harvested and destroyed is necessary to be removed from the forest. At present, the Ministry of Agriculture has ensured with the Ministry of Transport an accelerated regime for granting exemptions from the ban on driving time for truck transport, implementing the so-called calamity transport. Due to the volume of calamity wood covered by the transport, road transport is not sufficient, and it is in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport that the existing fleet will be increased by 500 pieces by the end of this year through ČD Cargo, in the form of the purchase of new railway wagons primarily intended for the transport of calamity wood. As far as storage is concerned, the result of the ongoing barking calamity, partly multiplied by windstorms, for example from March of this year, is an excess of wood on the market. It should be stressed that domestic processing capacities are already practically exhausted. I would just like to remind myself that the situation in the surrounding European countries is virtually identical with the manufacturing industry, and there is another problem here, with regard to the need to store timber harvested and delivered, at least until the wood market is stabilized. At present, the Ministry of Agriculture and other central government bodies, such as the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport, have identified areas suitable for longer-term storage of sludgewood. We have published these areas in the form of a so-called Catalogue of Storage Areas so that all forest owners or managers can have an overview of free storage capacities and can use them. This catalogue will be kept up to date. Currently, storage facilities for a volume of 1.4 million are offered within the catalogue. Cabs of wood. In view of the expected storage need of 2,5 million. Cabs are missing space for storage in order of 1 mil. cubic meters. We solve the problem of storage in close cooperation with the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic and not only existing storage capacity will be monitored in terms of preventing further spread of pests, but also further consideration will be given to the incoming premises. This includes the use of, for example, brownfields in the administration of the State Land Office. Of course, the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic will also provide co-operation in the storage of calamity wood, which will hold at its own expense at least a million cc's of unrealized sludgewood by the end of this year. As far as the use of wood is concerned, the issue of further use of wood in the future is also closely related to bark sludge. One possible alternative in the agreement with the MIT is the implementation of the project of support for small and medium-sized processors. This project would include support for both raw materials and machinery and technical equipment intended for the acquisition of machinery and technical equipment by such processors. Of course, the negative impact of road transport of calamity wood is unfortunately also damage to some local roads, especially in the calamity of the most affected regions. At the moment, the Ministry of Agriculture is very intensive with the Ministry of Regional Development on the possibilities of strengthening the subsidy title of the reconstruction of the territory after natural disasters. I see a solution for the future, honourable Members, particularly in achieving a comprehensive consensus on the form of our landscape in the future. I therefore took the liberty of initiating, together with representatives of the Duha Movement, the creation of a platform for forests composed of experts from ministries, both the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment, forestry organisations, conservationists, academics who will jointly address this situation at expert level. My goal is to reach agreement on fundamental and strategic issues such as fundamental legislative changes, that is, hunting law, forest law and so on, to reach agreement on strategic documents of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests of the Czech Republic, such as the Wooden Book. I also want to talk about forest certification. The pilot project for certification will be launched there in July or August. Then we want to address the area of hunting policy, the public administration system and so on. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current barking calamity is a long course and the success of its management is and will be dependent not only on the speed and vigor of many measures, including human work, but also on the further development of climate conditions and changes to a certain perception of the outside world. However, I am optimistic and want to believe that it is by our joint efforts and support that you, as members of the legislature, will be able to save our forests and restore their function. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u3	Thank you, Minister. Now I'm going to read one apology. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes from 14.45 to 16.15 for personal reasons. I would now ask for a speech by the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u4	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my role is easier because the Minister of Agriculture has already said a lot of what I would like to say. And I must say, I agree with the overwhelming majority, almost everything that has been said here. However, allow me a short historical excursion, but it won't be long, and it won't be in any distant past, because they appear here, and I think that today, let's say, some reservations about the activities of Czech environmental inspection, or have appeared in various media terms. I would like to set this straight, and then I will get to what I think is important very quickly, and I will definitely follow up on what Minister Toman said. So a short historical tour. In 2015, the Czech Environment Inspection Authority, which controls and enforces compliance with environmental laws in the Czech Republic, carried out 174 inspections focusing on so-called biotic factors, among others pests of the spruce-like, popularly called barkworm type. In view of the findings in 2015, the inspection planned further exceptional controls specifically aimed at insect pests for the following years. In 2016, the inspection carried out 290 checks with this focus throughout the Republic and in 2017 it carried out 274 checks, including a large-scale check with the Forests of the Czech Republic, which it launched in August 2017 and which resulted in the initiation of administrative proceedings for infringements. Only if there are questions on this subject do I have to say that the administrative procedure is not yet completed and we expect that this should be done by the end of July. I stress that these are checks that were carried out throughout the Czech Republic, but, of course, especially in areas more exposed to the risk of crust sludge, which was the Moravian-Silesian Region, especially at the beginning, or the Olomouc Region. During the above years, inspections were imposed fines for breach of forest law in the total amount of CZK 18 million and hundreds of corrective measures were imposed. The results of inspections in the forests of all types, i.e. state, municipal, church and private, i.e. owners of natural persons, which are huge in the Czech Republic, which you certainly know, and it also complicates the situation, will of course always receive all the authorities concerned. And especially the state enterprise of the Forest of the Czech Republic has repeatedly assured in the past, even in a number of media outputs, it can be found that they have the situation under control and can fight the crust. The so-called supreme state supervision, which the Ministry of the Environment watches over forests under forest law, i.e. in this case the Czech Inspection, cannot, by its nature, replace the executive component of the state forest administration, which is carried out at the level of municipalities with extended scope, regions or forests of the Czech Republic. Although there is considerable space in the activities of the forest protection component of the Czech Inspection, the fact needs to be taken into account, and this is not, please, an alibi, but this is a statement that one inspector fell to 1. 1. 2018 on average 64 thousand hectares of supervised forests. [[15.20 hours]] The Ministry of the Environment has long pointed out that in the context of drought and climate change it is necessary to change the way they are used in the forests and to make them more resilient. As has already been said here, in relation to forests, we carry out, in accordance with forest law, the jurisdiction of the forest authorities, the Regional Authority and the Ministry of Agriculture, only in the territory of national parks. In view of this fact, the Ministry of the Environment continuously monitors and evaluates the situation with regard to the development of random mining in the park territory and in relation to current developments the necessary measures are taken by both the Ministry and individual national park administrations. Thus, in the territory of the national parks it is carried out according to the state and quality of forest ecosystems in terms of interference with bark pests. The current situation is, of course, significantly better in the territory of national parks than in the most affected regions of the Czech Republic. Current number, e.g. In the Šumava National Park, 6,000 ccs were extracted in the Šumava National Park in the first six months, approximately 6,000 ccs to 7,000 ccs. I'm just reminding you that after Kyrill's Orcan in 2008, 2009, 2010 it took 300,000 cc's, 200 to 300,000 cc's of wood. So it's not true the bark is spreading from national parks. And I've even heard, which doesn't surprise me anymore, because if we're going to talk about homosexual couples, then somehow it's going to go back to the Šumava system "ina, Carthage must be destroyed," I've even heard that from Sumava the crust flew all the way to Beskydy. I don't think anybody's seen a turbocharger like that, and I don't think the army has it either. Now, on the second question, which concerns further action in the context of competences, I dare say, more important. In particular, all deliberate mining took place on the territory of the national parks, as in other state-owned enterprises such as the Forests of the Czech Republic and the Military Forests and Goods. As my colleague Toman has already said, and what is now in store for us, what the Ministry of the Environment has supported in the long term is, above all, a diversion from the cultivation of uniform and holo-economic monocultural forests with the predominance of the spruce of the draught towards nature closer to forests, whose cultivation takes place in greater harmony with natural processes. You must have heard and seen a number of graphs in recent weeks and months about the structure of both the age and, above all, the species structure of forests, where in the Czech Republic there are basically about half of the total area of forests, the spruce of the drizzle, and what is eating the crust is really trees that were planted between 80 and 100 years ago, when no one naturally knew that climate change would come. But the truth is that the signs were quite obvious ten fifteen years ago about it coming, and it is true that Bavarian state forests responded more quickly to this change. Because when we look at the structure of course a few hundred years ago, it was dramatically different, but it is also true, and it was also said here that today we are simply paying for the fact that the spruce in the long run, of course, as a rapidly growing tree that is well usable in the wood industry, it is a tree that was targeted at altitudes where it does not naturally have its place, and this is naturally the impact today and the result of these decisions, which were understandable fifty seventy years ago, because even in these altitudes the spruce survived due to more moisture or more precipitation. Today, the situation is dramatically different, especially in the few years past, but unfortunately, so far everything has proved, even though this crystal ball, polished, that no one in the climate scientists today has, that the situation will now be worse than better in the years to come. Thus, the barkworm is not the primary cause of forest extinction in affected areas, it only attacks the plants weakened by the drought, the disturbans of the type of wind shrinks, orcans, the fungus of the waclava, which attacks the roots, and also acidified soil environment due to the effects of misions in the past, which is above all still a situation e.g. in the Krkonoše Mountains or Jizera Mountains, of course in the Ore Mountains, as well as monocultural spruce growing, with a wider use of deciduous trees and fir, and this is also a Czech specialty, preventing multiple cloven-hoofed animals, which can certainly trigger a lively discussion with a number of hunters present here. Richly species and spatially structured crops are much more resistant to the effects of harmful factors and manifestations of climate change, and if we currently had such crops in our forests, we would not face their disintegration somewhere, perhaps today we can see it in Beskydy or Jeseníky. Unfortunately, however, the arguments that the wood-processing industry cannot do without the predominance of spruce wood have slowed these efforts for a long time, and that is what Minister Toman mentioned about the big debate that went on and on with the Forests of the Czech Republic on certification. It is overrated, and of course it is something that may cause some debate, but the economic function of forests is overrated, although colleagues from the right part will not agree with me except Pirates, with the share of the forestry sector in the Czech Republic's gross domestic product of just 0.56%, and vice versa the public function of forests is estimated at 12 trillion crowns, not millions, but trillions, and it is no longer taken into account in strategic decisions. As a result, most measures are so called. the national forestry programme for the period up to 2013 approved by the Government's resolution of 2008 has not been consistently fulfilled, including key measures such as reducing the effects of expected global climate change and extreme weather phenomena, growing spatially and species-diversified crops, varied timber compositions, improving health status and protecting forests. In other words, as early as 2008, the government adopted such a document, but it was slow to implement it. The implementation of the national climate change adaptation action plan, adopted by the Government in 2017, is currently under way and, of course, this document deals with forests and pays attention, for example. the achievement of livestock stocks to maintain the natural recovery of a wide range of trees, support for economic practices with permanent soil cover, etc. etc. Don't worry, I'm coming to a conclusion. What is important, and I will follow up on what Mr Toman said here, of course, he has appointed a number of specific measures that are now being dealt with by both the crisis crew at national level and those crowds at regional level. I would also like to say something that may also fall here, and that, of course, legislation is also important, it is not only a forest law, but also a change in the relevant decrees. The amendment to Decree 101 is already in force. And the important legislation, which is currently in the process of commenting, is the draft decree No. 83/1996 Coll., on the processing of regional forest development plans and the definition of economic sets. This is a very important decree, which, if it succeeds, and I believe that it will be possible to agree with all the actors on its text, in particular the amendments from the inter-ministerial bodies provided by the Ministry of the Environment will be adopted, so we believe that it can help substantially in the next period. I do not want to delay a whole series of measures that will simply be there and which, perhaps, we can discuss in the next debate. As I have already said, the National Action Plan for adaptation to climate change was approved in 2017 and there are a number of things in this national action plan that you will certainly talk about and propose here, and I will finally return to what Mr Toman said, and that is that I welcome it, and it was not customary for us to have a wider agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forests of the Czech Republic, to point out that we have really only one forest. And it was paradoxical that we were dealing with the problems of national parks, and in the meantime, the bark was eating up the forests of the economy. As you know, in some territories of national parks that occupy about one percent of the territory of the Czech Republic, there we discussed whether without interference it should be on so many and so many hectares, but in those economic forests, which, of course, are hundreds of hectares and where it can not only interfere, there must even be interference, so it has often not been interfered. [[15.30 hours]] So I'm really glad that this debate exists, but not just this debate, but as long as measures are being taken, they're preparing a major measure that should really help us cope with this crusty calamity, which is undoubtedly the biggest since Marie Terezie's day. But as has already been said here, it's a long run, it's certainly not a horizon of one year, it's a horizon of many years, but I'm sure we're at the point where the trend is breaking, and it's a good thing it's happened. Maybe it could have been sooner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u5	I thank the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco and now I ask the appointed member, the representatives of the appellants, whether he wants to speak. You'll be appointed, and you'll basically sit here as the plaintiffs' representative. So, Mr. Holomčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues who have supported the fact that we can discuss this point here today, whether by signing a petition for approval of the meeting, or even then by voting on the inclusion of this item at today's meeting. We are, or I've actually been trying to approach this whole thing as constructively as possible from the beginning, so it doesn't become any kind of politics here. That's why I basically asked everyone concerned on June 22 to know what I want to ask you today. Many of these things have been said by the Ministers, and I thank them for that, but I would have taken the liberty, and it will probably be especially for the Minister of Agriculture, just a few follow-up questions that I have not fully noticed that they would have been answered. There's actually two of them. One. Why did the solution of the calamity completely avoid the strategic development concept of the Forests of the Czech Republic for the years 2015 to 2019, when at the time of its writing and discussion by the government the barking calamity was already a problem? And the second point concerns even more history - I'm sorry, you haven't been to either of those points, but I hope your colleagues at the Ministry have prepared those documents for you - and this concerns the trade model of forests. The commercial model of the Forests of the Czech Republic is based on the concept of so called. Wooden books. It is based on a comparison of the financial advantages of the model of sale of state wood at the time of the sale of mining companies, and the transport site, when the wood processors themselves supply it to the forests of the Czech Republic. The model at pn identified the analysis as economically advantageous to the State. However, according to publicly available information, the analysis evaluated both models only from an economic advantage point of view, i.e. it did not deal with the assessment of the sales model in terms of social and environmental impacts on forests and rural areas. And I would like to ask the Minister if it is in his power, if he could answer me, first of all, why only economic aspects have been assessed and the others have not been dealt with, and why, even in that later period, that is, in 2014 to 2017, there has not been an assessment of the remaining ones, that is, the ecological and social impacts of the Wooden Book. Those are questions. And actually, today's item is the Information of Ministers for Agriculture and the Environment on the Crucible Calamity, and I would like to propose a more comprehensive resolution on this matter. I don't know if I can?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u7	Basically, it's possible. This should only happen in the debate when we have a rapporteur who will record it. But you can bring him in now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u8	Okay. The resolution is quite extensive. I'd like to apologize for the fact that many of you didn't get him until about two o'clock. I've been trying to send it this morning, but I'm a little disappointed in the tech. So, the resolution: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. requests from the Ministry of Agriculture 1. Forensic analysis of outbreaks and the subsequent spread of bark sludge at the time of the state's assets in Moravia and Silesia, since 2012 using orthophotomap, forest records data, data on defence and protection measures taken against barkworms, data on the method of sale of the affected wood, data on contractual partners of the Forests of the Czech Republic who mined the timber and bought it from the Forests of the Czech Republic, and finally using data on contractual penalties for non-compliance with contractual arrangements in the field of forest protection against bark granted by the Forests of the Czech Republic; 2. analysis of the costs associated with the necessary extension of the number of forest plants, respectively. with an increase of its own mining and transport, if applicable. even storage capacities usable in the fight against bark sludge; 3. carrying out an analysis of the social, economic and environmental impacts of the implementation of the so-called Wooden books and follow-up concepts of strategic development of the Forests of the Czech Republic for the years 2015-19 and especially impacts in the calamity of affected areas; 4. Implementation of the inventory of the current stock of wood in forest growth in the forest management of forest forests of the Czech Republic and evaluation of the results of this inventory in relation to data of forest accounting of forests of the Czech Republic, respectively. the data on the mining operations carried out and the data on the forest stock of timber in accordance with the forest management plans in force from 2012 onwards; and finally point 5. implementation of inventory of results of science and research financed from the Grant Service of the Forests of the Czech Republic in connection with the introduction of these verified knowledge into operational practice in forest management of the Forests of the Czech Republic. II. The Ministry of Defence asks - and I will probably simplify - for the same analysis as in the case of the Forests of the Czech Republic, but in relation to the Division of Military Forests and Goods of the Czech Republic Lipník nad Bečvou. 2. analysis of the economic and environmental impacts of the change in the trade strategy of the Military Forests and Goods in the area of Lipník nad Bečvou division, which was announced in December 2014, substantially increased the volume of timber sold through electronic and presentational timber auctions in cooperation with the company Lesa ČR; 3. again carrying out the inventory of the current stock of wood and forest crops in the calamity forest management of the division of Military Forests and Goods Lipník nad Bečvou and evaluating the results of this inventory in relation to data of forest records, respectively. data on the mining operations carried out and data on timber stocks in accordance with forest management plans in force in the period from 2012. Point III. It asks the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Defence to submit the required documents and results to the Chamber of Deputies by 31 October of this year. IV. He asks the Prime Minister to revise the existing business models of the company Lesa ČR, s. p., and Military forests and goods of the Czech Republic, s. p., and to inform the Chamber of Deputies by 31 October of this year. I would just like to conclude by summing up the meaning of the resolution. If we want to inform the public about what was going on and at the same time look for a meaningful way to deal with this situation, we consider this information, virtually. We consider the information that should be contained in these analyses to be important and, therefore, I ask my fellow Members to support this resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u9	Thank you, too. I would ask you to take a seat at the rapporteur's table, and also, given the scope of this proposal, I would like to ask that it be delivered in writing to the President. And now we would open the debate. I assume that my colleague, Holomčík, who is the first to be logged in, will no longer be the first to speak, and I will therefore ask Mr Zahradník. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, and I would like to point out that you will be the rapporteur according to the in-depth procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u10	Yes, Mr President. In those moments that separated me from when I got out of my position and came here, I realized this fact that I would become the rapporteur here, in my opinion, such a very important point in our negotiations and, therefore, with my colleague, Holomčík, I would be happy to cooperate on the conclusions of our negotiations. But now I would like to speak as an ordinary Member and a person who remembers well the various circumstances which precede today and which can be shifted over time to the middle of the first decade of this century, and maybe put some things in the context that both ministers may well remember intentionally, and the petitioner certainly does not mention unintendedly. That's right. kůrovec attacked extensive areas of Czech and Moravian forests. It is estimated that 5 million full-metres of so far harvested wood, which is unprecedented given that, of course, barkwood is very low priced and causes huge economic losses to forest owners. Of course, the culprit is wanted. The previous Minister Milek is looking for him. The Minister will certainly be looking for it as well. At least there are several suspects to be found guilty of this matter. Some things have already been said here. These are Forests of the Czech Republic, possibly even Military Forests. At the Forests of the Czech Republic it was embodied by the recalled director Szórád. Perhaps the culprits can also be ministers, whether all agricultural ministers to the so-called or the environmental minister. Other suspects include climate change, drought. This has already been discussed here. Oddly enough, Czech foresters as well as spruce. But I'll talk about it later. However, there is no truth about what nature conservation currently looks like and how nature protection has signed on to the present state of environmental activists in the application and interpretation of environmental activists. It is simply that at least from the Kyrill orcan and from weeks and months after it devastated our mountains, i.e. since the winter of 2007, the crust is actually a protected species. At that time it was decided that semi-marine wood, especially in the Šumava National Park in the first and part of the second zones, would not be extracted, would not be affected. That's when Minister Bursík made the decision. I've repeated this connection here many times. I was talking about the Minister's decision not to be followed by the forest law, that the wood would not be exported, that it would remain lying, that he had taken full responsibility for everything that would then happen. I can give a personal witness about taking responsibility because I was at the Senate hearing of the same year, sometime in the fall, or maybe some summer ago, I don't remember exactly now, but when Minister Bursík at the time took full responsibility for the development. There's definitely a record of the meeting. His responsibility is who knows where tonight. Like the former Minister Bursík. So, actually, Sumava has become some kind of breeding crust. I don't know - Minister Brabec will certainly accuse me that I also believe that the bark will fly from Šumava to Beskydy, but I don't quite think so. I just think there's been a big shift in the perception of the problem at all. I'll get to that in a minute. The current situation appears to have its origin in 2015, when it was a great drought. Dry soil was very deep below the ground level, maybe one meter. The spruce's dry. And the trees they have, but that's already been said here, the reduced water supply, they're dry, so they taste crusty, they're first sought out and dried up after the attack. I read somewhere that about 20,000 hectares of forest dried up in North Moravia. This does not even reach the 25,000 dry forests in Sumava, including the forests cut down as a buffer zone before the spread of the barking ground. [[hectares]] The Minister of the Environment liked to say it, I also heard it several times, that the conditions for the biggest barking disaster since Marie Terezie started in the Czech Republic from 2015 to 2016. I'm sure that's true. But here you have to ask yourself what this Minister Brabec did in those years. We, who sat here in the House, remember that Minister Brabec promoted and eventually passed the amendment to Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation. It was at the express request of environmental activists, for their heartfelt support, for their applause. By the way, this amendment also made it possible, among other things, to extend the areas without intervention in national parks to more than half of these territories. There's no interference with barkworm in these territories. And, of course, the bark can then spread to other forests, whether in the immediate vicinity, which the park management in Šumava prevented by cutting down healthy trees to prevent the spread of bark, or the bark can also spread through the transport of the fallen spruces across the territory of the Republic. This is also one of the sources of bark spread. This amendment was enforced in complete conflict with the opinion and call of the forestry public, which warned against the one who warned against spreading the territory without intervention as a possible source of future problems for the spread of the crust. I'm sure we who sat here remember the hundreds, maybe thousands of e-mails we received from actually supporters of the law. Those e-mails were often similar to texts like... they gave the impression of pre-treatment, pre-fabrication. Sometimes it was even traceable by the naively left marks that they were e-mails produced by the Rainbow Movement. If we wanted to give a historical analogy or a historical comparison, there'd certainly be more of these crust sludges. The first such documented calamity is the famous calamity after the windstorm from 1868 to 1870, in the 19th century. We know this from Klostermannův's novels, especially from the novel In the Bohemian Paradise, which depicts the situation in Sumava after this huge calamity that occurred. The extent of the calamity, the disaster from the 19th century, was overcome only by the calamity after the Kyrill Orcan in 2007, and thus in the following years, when the calamity in Šumava was the fault of the crust spread from the trees of the fallen during the Kyrill Orcan. In the private forests and in the forests of the state, falling under the Ministry of Agriculture and Defence, i.e. in the Forests of the Czech Republic and in the Military Forests and Farms, it was a catastrophic overgrowth of barking in two to three years. In Sumava it lasted until 2013, i.e. seven years. So it was a calamity of 500,000 ccs larger than that of the 19th century clostermann. [[15.50 hours]] I must say that the way the Ministry of the Environment and National Park Administration used Orkán Kyrill is alarming. By leaving unprocessed wood in the first zones and part of the second zones, optimal conditions were set for the formation of bark sludges, which peak this year in the territory of the Republic. I must say that for environmental activists, scientists who are related to them, and unfortunately for some public authorities from the then Ministry of the Environment, Kyrill from 2007 was actually a gift from heaven. At that time, negotiations were held on the zoning of the national park, on the principles of care in the national park, complex negotiations with municipalities, where each hectare of the non-stressing territory of the first zones was discussed and negotiated hard. And here Minister Bursík suddenly realized that this negotiation could end, that by letting the bark fly out of the fallen wood in the first and second zones, there will be a calamity that will actually make the desired wilderness reachable and that will actually be at hand. It's like there's a parallel to maybe 140 years ago. At that time, the barking calamity was also seen by some as a gift from heaven. Leopold Zeithammer, in his book Sumava, a region and people, published in 1902 in the Czech edition, was previously a German edition in 1896, reminds of the calamity from 1868 to 1870 in these words: The characteristic name for the plague of bark is usually in the mouth of the people the name of the beetle age, which is still to this day as a golden age, when all people prospered excellently. That word today reminds 1896 when Zeithammer wrote his work. And we know it from the literary concept of Klostermann. The principles and sacred rules of the forestry state in Bohemia were always to speak against bark. Young foresters have already learned this in forestry schools. Legendary professor in the sand forest engineer Forst said he used to say to the young candidates of the forestry state: Foresters, the bark is your prosecutor. And I say, yes, that's right. He'll use all the mistakes and punish them properly. And even from the time of Marie Terezie, mentioned somewhere in a television interview by the Minister, it is true that she is hitting the cruststorm nationwide and consistently everywhere. A forest order was issued, in which it was ordered to severely punish those who in the forest land under attack by the bark tree. And that was what was happening in Sumava, and so it was extracted as a protective extraction of nearly 400,000 cc's of wood, a healthy tree that was to remain in the forest. Probably not Mr. General Director of the Forests of the Czech Republic Szórád, but Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. I would like to quote here the words for me of a highly respected forestry expert, forester and forensic expert engineer Ivo Vicena, who writes in the journal Nature and Landscape Protection. Nature Protection magazine, I apologize here for spoiling the name, from the beginning of 2018 he brought several articles on the current cruststorm. A number of experts have been expressed, Benda, Čermák, Čada, Dolejský, Havíra, Hruška, Chlapek, Kadavý, Kopáček, Pelc, Pelc, Pospíšil, Servus, Vrška. And here, my colleague Vicena says the following, as they write, that as the main cause of the calamity is a great drought and also a great representation of the spruce. And Mr. Engineer Vicena writes: Many reasons for the current calamity are based on the view that life in the woods and nature has refuted. The current period is indeed extremely dry, but this does not mean that it is the first drought we are experiencing. The drought period was, for example, in 1947, 1974, 1983, 2003, 2013, also in 2015 and 2016. It is possible to mention earlier years. It has always meant an increased incidence of crustaceans, but it has never reached such a catastrophic extent as it has now. There are several reasons for the current terrible development. It is said that the Boubín or Žofín calamity reserves did not occur, although there is no interference, that it helps birds, high altitudes, lower high mountain temperatures, that the crust is developing slower there, that the left-over material protects the soil from degradation and erosion, that the multiplication of the beetle is a unique opportunity to promote natural processes. However, it is no longer stated that other reservations, such as Trojmenná, were completely destroyed by the barkworm. As a result, in comparison to 1990, the crustacean has multiplied to 10 times the size of the whole Republic, and the need for people and mechanization to process it is now 10 times higher. We are seriously concerned about water and nature as well as our forests and mountains, Šumava, Jeseníky and Vysočina. Holes after barking even increase the average temperature of the crops and soil, its overheating destroys the fertile humus layer and aggravates the conditions for future recovery. There are disputes about how forests can affect problems with the current drought. On the one hand, Mr Hruška, Kopáček, Kaňa and Turek claim that dry forests have no influence on the conditions of removal, drainage and overall moisture, but much longer-term investigations by Lords Pokorný, Čermák, Švihla, Šach and Černohous lead to the opposite result. We must also remind ourselves that last dry season struck us at a time when our forests were in much better order. On purpose, there is no mention of how much the forest management has deteriorated, how grossly good forest protection practices have been neglected in the long term. It is not mentioned at all that the basic rules for protection against barkworm have not been complied with in recent years, that no intervention regime has been introduced into forests between 10 and 20 years ago, which directly reproduces barkworms, and that the principle that the affected trees should be processed by the end of June, i.e. not only cut down and sold, but also at that time they have been de-corked and chemically or burned, asanalyzed. The FSC certification organisation also supports harmful interference-freeness, mentioned several times here. Contrary to the need for protection, it is prescribed that raw wood matter remain in the growths allegedly to improve the soil, but it is forbidden that the barkworm is multiplying well on this material and that it is a risk to future forests, because it is at least eight kinds of mushrooms that cause rotting decay of lying wood, but also attack healthy trees as parasites. It is not said that the current foresters at the Forests of the Czech Republic are comfortable when they get rid of the crust of the contaminated matter by quick sale and approach. It doesn't really matter if the trees are attacked or what to do with them. In the long term, it also neglects the training of young crops, such as cuttings and brochures, the size of which has fallen by a quarter, making it worse the resilience of future crops. Gradually, it reduces density - reclusion - both adults and teenage crops, which are then more damaged by the wind. There is an increase in the claim as to how leafy plants in mixed growth will strengthen the crops in the future, although the survey in the highest positions of Šumava showed that mixed crops were damaged in 2007 during the Kyrill windstorm as well as spruce crops. Also deciduous trees can be attacked in the future by a calamity of various pests, which are on the beech, oak, ash, elm and alders of over thirty species. [[16.00 hours]] The multiplication of bark is a major aid to so-called non-impacted crops in specially protected areas, national parks and outside them, which, without verification, are said to have become a resilient wilderness for centuries. It is deliberately withheld that many stock companies are in a position to decompose the processing of the infected trees over a longer period of time than the biological development of pests requires. It is astonished that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture know about this, but they are probably afraid to intervene against economically strong stock companies and are not concerned with how to change this bankruptcy system. - I note that they are companies not only economically, but also politically strong with the concentration of Agrofert. The government also does not mind how strongly the current calamity is supported by public procurement regulations. Changes must be made urgently. The damage to nature, forests, waters and the environment is enormous. So much engineer Ivo Vicena, forester and forensic expert in the field of forestry. The DEHA movement and their forest specialist Dr. Bláha call for the rescue of Czech forests so that it should end with spruce monoculture that we should get rid of 80 percent of spruce crops in the Czech Republic. The remaining 20 percent, which are forests in mountain areas, could remain, according to Bláha. Thus, they would remain protected in areas where most of the protected areas are protected by a regime where they do not interfere with the crust, the forests dry and the pests continue to spread. The result of this ideology may be that future generations will import millions of cc's, I don't know, from somewhere in South America, like today in Germany. The government did nothing to allow the attacked barkwood to be processed in the state forests as soon as possible. The Public Procurement Act continues to apply without exception to the crisis situation. It continues that the competition for the procurement of barkwood processing takes up to several months, and it is already too late for early intervention. The government has also done nothing to ensure that two thousand skilled workers and four thousand unqualified workers who are missing in the field are long gone into forestry. We're looking where we can, those skilled foresters. Now I know that somewhere there is a request from 38 Ukrainian forest workers to allow us to enter the labour market in this field. I wonder how long it's gonna take to get them done. So the question is - who should care about Czech forests? It's obvious. They're supposed to be taken care of by the foresters. There's a catch. Environmental organisations and environmental activists have played a leading role in the debate on the protection of nature and landscape, which is part of the forests without a doubt, for quite a long time. They are trying to promote a greater or lesser degree of unattractiveness, leaving nature to its spontaneous development. And it must be admitted that they are successful in the debate. They have managed to enforce the approval of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which anchors an intervention-free regime in most of the national parks. They keep trying to influence the public's view of forests, stressing their ecological function and suppressing their economic function. Unfortunately, a relatively large part of the public is willing to hear and support their arguments, for example, signatures under various petitions. On the other hand, the relatively wide professional village of forestry is in defensive. Her opinion that the forest needs to be cared for sensitively, whether it is a forest in or outside the national park, is questioned, foresters are referred to as returnees and pests of Czech nature. Paradoxically, the current situation with catastrophic barking calamity is recording ecological activists. They share the blame for spreading bark between foresters and spruce. I want to stand up for both the people, the unfortunate foresters, and the trees. The foresters are traditionally highly educated in our country, building on the experience of generations of their predecessors and feeling personal responsibility for the Czech forests. And the spruce, and it has already been mentioned here by Minister Brabec, has been the most important economic product of our forests for centuries, among other things because its wood is cheap, easy to manipulate, easy to process and machine, it is reasonably durable and last but not least also serves as a quality heater. So what will happen to our forests? Is it possible to stop the spread of barkworm, or to restore those forests that have already been eaten by barkworm? In my opinion, that's possible. We just need to fundamentally change the atmosphere in which the debate on solving the problem is taking place, and we need to find a solution quickly. In my opinion, representatives of the Czech professional forestry community must immediately take the lead in the rescue action under the guarantee of the state. There are excellent experts among them, able to cope with this task. The state must also rethink the current environmental approach to forests, including a fundamental revision of the principle of non-impositionality in national parks and the consistent prevention of attempts by environmental activists to apply this principle to forests outside national parks. It seems like it's too late. The Prime Minister did not declare an emergency like Topolánek did in 2007. This situation would allow at least a much more flexible activation of bark tree disposal capacities, as was the case after Kyrill, when contracts for grueling work in the woods were awarded not by means of open tenders, but by means of a negotiated procedure without publication, which substantially accelerated the procurement process. I'm afraid this proposal will come across the reverend of the anti-corruption banging. But I think he's the only one who can help the situation. As usual, those who give good advice have appeared. Unfortunately, it is not a big surprise to me that this advisor is also the Rainbow Movement, which advises in its material What to do to save our forests. An ancient saying would be used: The thief calls: catch the thief! Ecological activists from the Duha Movement are responsible for millions of dried trees in Sumava. When the barkworm was raging in Sumava, these activists spoke of the fact that the barkworm is part of the natural cycle, that it must not be interfered with even against it without interference zones, and that it is, in fact, an instrument that restores the forest. They want to introduce a principle without interference in forests that are considered to be economic forests. At present, the DuhA Movement has provoked further enforcement without intervention, i.e. the production of wilderness in the form of adoption of the FSC standard to larger forest units, and thus threatens to further spread parasitic pests without the possibility of their real restrictions. It is necessary to compare all their advice with how they expressed their views on the situation in Sumava and how they influenced and actually enforced the nature and landscape conservation law. Despite everything there are two points in which it is possible to agree with the Duha Movement, from their material What to do to save our forests. These are proposals for the need to transform the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic, firstly, and secondly the need to change the system of public procurement in state forests, which are by far the largest contracting entity in the field of forestry. They don't exactly specify how it should be done, but at least it's something. I've got one suggestion to make. How to transform the Forests of the Czech Republic, state enterprise? This is possible, and the existing law on a state enterprise makes it possible to create detachable regional plants, i.e. to return to the structure that the Forests of the Czech Republic had before 1989, where the Directorate-General was therefore the regional directorate, forest plants and forest administration. That particular forest section was taken care of by the forest authorities. So they could be the contracting authorities for the tender today. This means that there could eventually be a clear dominance of large timber companies, which simply dominate and usually win in these large complex orders. That, if possible, they hire the smaller mining companies from the given regions, so if they haven't gone bankrupt, they haven't disappeared and their workers haven't melted away, that's just what they are. [[16.10 hours]] About the contracts. Here there is an unfortunate system of so-called complex orders, i.e. extraction of wood at pni, or thus on the stump, its extraction from the forest, sale and subsequent obligation to carry out the cultivation work in the given area. It's the company that wins the competition on that section that's on the job. And the competition is simple. The higher the price these companies offer to the state for it, the better. This means that they are, of course, trying to make the most of the appreciation of the wood on the market and the lowest of the costs spent on growing. Thus, including cuttings and other modifications to the forest before mining during vegetation. And second of all, the forestation of the shavings. Comprehensive orders may have made sense when, even in the beginnings, those stock exchanges that, in my view, the unfortunate transformations arose in the 1990s, when the forest assets were separated and the LCR and the harvesters, the sawmills, all the possible balances and so, including the workers, were entrusted to the stock exchanges, so there were still foresters who went through their careers in the state forests and knew what to do in the woods. Today, unfortunately, at the top of the stock market, there are tough, uncompromising timber traders who are looking at as much profit as possible. Then the forest care looks like it, too. The bark campaign. Of course it's a big problem. It's a national problem. Today, we have a crust beetle as public enemy number one. I guess so. While two years ago there was a barkworm part of nature and a protected species in Sumava, today it is a public enemy that needs to be dealt with. So the environmental activists from the drones simply took footage of the chaos in Jeseníky and then, of course, it clouded people and opinion mainly of the unprofessional public. Nobody's filming that mess in Sumava today. Today, the administration will produce 150,000 full-metre wood, which is 430 hectares of shin in Sumava every year. In Šumava, it has slowly resigned to forestation, because the administration under the direction of Director Hubený has no money to organise growing activities in kindergartens or plantings. Forest kindergartens are, in fact, a warehouse of muddy wood today, for which the park administration doesn't have a sale due to its overpressure on the market. And one last thing at the end of his performance. We have come this far - and here I must very much note from my position and strongly criticise the intention of Minister Toman, who wants to establish a common platform of various professional societies, institutions and also the Duh Movement to solve the cruststorm. And I consider it almost unacceptable, incredibly impertinent, to work with the Duha Movement to deal with the crust calamity. It's like we're inviting that arsonist's fire, the pyromaniac. Does the Minister know that the Duha Movement is responsible for the millions of dry forests in Sumava, the spread of barkworm into the surrounding forests, as well as the disparaging of the work of generations of Czech foresters? I think that if anyone wants to lean on the Duha Movement to solve the cruststorm, they can come to Sumava, thousands of acres of dried forest and millions of dry spruces. And let's talk to the Šumavák about it. Mr Holomčík has tabled a motion for a resolution, which I see as quite useful given that he requests information from two ministries on how calamity arose, how it was dealt with, and also how the Ministry of Agriculture and Defence will want to address the calamity further. The only comment I have, and I would like to suggest, with the permission of the rapporteur, in some detailed debate, whether to those countries in which the Ministry of Agriculture should then carry out the forensic analysis, from Moravia and Silesia to Bohemia. Because it is unfortunately happening in the Czech Republic, too, that we are beginning to observe bark areas, such as Vodňany, Českobudějovicka, and I think that even here it would be good to carry out some forensic analysis. So that the words "in Bohemia" and "in Bohemia" and "in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia" should be put there. I can see that the Ministry of Defence, which is responsible for the management in the Military Forests and Farms, which are also in the South Bohemia to a very large extent, namely the entire Boletic military space and the part excluded during the last election period under the transformation of Brd, are then managed by the Military Forests and Farms. And I don't know how the calamity goes, I just need to find out. I saw that resolution about an hour ago when my colleague Holomčík sent it to me. So I'm going to consider whether it would be worth asking about the development of the possible calamity and crust problems in the military area of Boletice, which is some division - I can't remember what it is now. We'll find out. It's not a problem. Finally, the resolution proposed by Mr Holomčík. I still can't help it, but I'd like the information on the Calamity Solutions at the Sumava National Park. And then we would like to address the Minister of the Environment to do a similar audit on the solution of crust sludge in the territory of the National Park of Šumava and in CHKO Šumava, where there are also, of course, some symptoms. I just don't have a lot of time to process this matter in this motion for a resolution. I will try again during the ongoing discussion. There is one more thing I would like to respond to the current steps that are taking place here due to the barking calamity. That is why I have also taken the liberty of preparing my motion for a resolution on the barking calamity in the forests of the Czech Republic. Meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of 10 July, it is the 16th meeting, on the point Information of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment to bark sludge in the Czech Republic. I propose this resolution in this form: "The Chamber of Deputies I. calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to immediately prepare and implement an action plan for the rescue of Czech forests and to introduce it to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its meeting on 14 September 2018; II. Believes that the relevant ministries should cooperate with forest experts on the proposals for solutions with the priority objective of preserving not only forests as such, but also to ensure that all their non-production functions of ecological, environmental, water, landscape, protection, cultural and aesthetics are maintained and improved, even with the knowledge of the need for accelerated changes in their species composition; [[16.20 hours]] III. calls for a prudent approach to proposals submitted by environmental activists and environmental organisations because these proposals bear the characteristics of harmful environmental experiments and are contrary to the traditional and proven approach to forest care in the Czech Republic; and finally IV. Calls on the Government to prepare legislative changes in the field of public procurement for logging and wood processing, which allow for a more flexible response to the excessive occurrence of barking in the Czech forests. So this is my proposal to the House, which I will also submit to the petitioner and take as rapporteur for his work. Thank you at this moment, thank you for your attention to this speech I have made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u11	I thank Mr Zahradník. I also thank him for taking the role of rapporteur and collecting proposals. I would like to ask him to deliver his proposal to himself as well as to the President. I will therefore now open a general debate. Before I do, here's an apology. We are sorry by Mr Karel Tureček, today between 17 and 19 o'clock for family reasons. I am now opening a general debate, in which Mrs Pekarová, Mr Podal, Mr Jurečka and others are joined. But before that, Vice-President Okamura came forward with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we're meeting on the theme of the crust, and we're going to discuss who's responsible for the damage and how to solve it. Of course, the current government has a share of its inactivity in the current calamity. It is a problem that calls for a comprehensive solution, because the primary pest is not a crust, but a man, an insatiable person who plunders the landscape regardless of the consequences. To remedy and prevent the damage caused by what we call a crust, i.e. a spruce-eating calf, projects that are for decades and practically all areas of our lives need to be prepared. First, let's ask why the bark is multiplying. Apart from the bad forest composition, the main cause is the drying of the woods. The dried trees are losing resin and are unable to defend themselves. So the real problem is drought and the inability of our landscape to keep water, for example, due to the decline in arable land. It is increasingly occupied by, for example, warehouses growing in the suburbs and along motorways. Since 1991 253,000 hectares have been built. Together with erosion, it is the biggest problem of agricultural soils. On the one hand, the Ministry of Environment has been focusing on water for several years, but on the other hand, it should not be subject to the pressure of the concrete lobby by putting emphasis on dams. When you figure out how much water each square meter of soil can hold, the largest tanks are funny little against it. It is crucial to retain large volumes of water in the landscape to manage the soil and what is growing on it - with the structure of the forest and the fields. It is best for the landscape when the water in the drop site is soaked into the soil because it also reaches underground waters. Unfortunately, today, a huge amount of water will either flow away or evaporate quickly, which has another negative effect on rapid weather changes. In the Czech Republic it stops daily, concretes about 15 hectares. After the concrete or asflated surfaces, the water flows away quickly, accelerating the drain in the rivers, and when the water comes more, floods may occur. From this point of view, if we really want to address this issue, we should definitely stop the construction of trade centres and industrial zones. Among other things, we should return shops and life with shopping centers to city centers. The problem is in the soil. That's why the soil is suffocated, especially from heavy agricultural technology, it doesn't leak water through the orgy down. The higher the layer of the ornament, the better it absorbs the water and the better it passes through the soil. When the soil is hardened or its most valuable layer is washed away due to erosion, the water flows like a concrete surface. As one of the few countries in the European Union, we have large, up to a hundred-hectare soil blocks. They are cultivated by heavy techniques that suffocate the soil and make it impossible for the water to leak. Moreover, over the course of decades, elements such as boundaries and ties have vanished from the landscape, preventing water and wind erosion. The composition of crops is also bad. Are those that improve and degrade the soil (?), and those who improve and enrich it. Cereals or rape has a shallow root system approximately 30 cm long. But maybe the alfalfa will spice up to five meters deep and enrich the soil with water and air oxygen. Nearly 40 percent of our agricultural soils are at risk of erosion. This adverse influence can also be faced by the forestation of land threatened with erosion, the establishment of seeping belts mainly on slopes or windbreaks in plain open positions. Of course, there is a negative lack of capacity for processing semimes, including problems with Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on the award of public contracts, as amended, which extends the dates from half to processing, as well as problems with the sale of wood, which is currently surplus and brings with it a number of problems. But I wouldn't worry so much about selling wood. Even the worst wood can be burned or gassed into wood gas. The biggest problem, however, is the timely cutting down and the subsequent effective rendering. This is mainly influenced by two factors: the lack of capacity not only for cutting but above all for rendering, and the already mentioned bad situation with the sale of wood, when the affected wood remains under-treated directly in the forest or in close proximity to it. At the same time, everyone - private and power plant - likes to buy cheap firewood. Ladies and gentlemen, when I return to the core of the problem that we are dealing with here, we should first start dealing with the law on soil, which should protect it more, and we should also prepare the conditions for changing our landscape so that it doesn't just make us feel good about bark, but also about the generations that will come after us. Finally, let me propose, on behalf of the SPD, a resolution in the following text: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Czech Government to take urgent measures to limit barking calamity. At the same time, the government needs to prepare legislative and conceptual steps in order to make substantial changes in forest management and thus reduce the conditions for the spread of bark. The responsibility for the current situation lies with the previous government and, above all, the previous management of the Department of Agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u13	Thank you, too. I ask that you submit your proposal to the rapporteur and then to me, if necessary. And now we move on. Please, Mrs Pekarová, Mr Podal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u14	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, fellow Members, Members, TOP 09 in the Chamber of Deputies has always defended environmental protection from the outset. In the House, we have always paid for one of the loudest parties in this regard. This is also confirmed by our programming statement, a memorandum on environmental protection, which has been collaborated on alongside our experts by a number of non-partisan experts from both practice and academic sphere, such as professors such as Mr Moldan, Hruška, and our former colleague Mr Kučera etc. The content of the memorandum, which shows the direction and specific priorities that need to be implemented in the future in the protection of the nature of the Czech Republic, is one of the priorities that we have committed ourselves to promoting in the Chamber of Deputies. That is why we have also supported the inclusion of this extraordinary item in the agenda. Since we are aware of the gravity of the current cruststorm, I am not afraid to call it a natural disaster, we have called a press briefing a while ago, where we presented our specific proposals. This is not news, we are based on the programme document I was talking about, and we are sticking to what we have already advocated in the last parliamentary term. Unfortunately, the situation has reached a state where we have the biggest cruststorm in the last few centuries. The state only lost nearly 2 billion crowns in Moravia. But this can't just be about money for the state. Forests primarily affect the local climate in a significant way. For example, their position, size and condition depends partly on where, where and how much rain it rains. They increase the retention capacity of the landscape, thus helping to ensure the supply of drinking water and stable flow in rivers, thereby also contributing to the protection against floods. It prevents erosion especially on steep slopes. They have an irreplaceable role for recreation. Every week, Czech forests are visited by four million people. And, of course, they are also a source of wood, so a large part of the local economy in a number of municipalities and cities and entire industries depend on the forests. [[16.30 hours]] However, ensuring these important functions prevents the poor condition of a small part of the Czech forests, which is related to the way of management. The current system of management in the state forests has created the conditions for the barking calamity that we are facing today. It is necessary to manage for the benefit of the forest, not for the benefit of large companies. We must not just vacuum our forests, we must care for them, we must be responsible for nature. It is therefore necessary to change the whole legislation, which is already obsolete at current conditions. Therefore, as part of short-term measures in the fight against the crusty calamity TOP 09 proposes and presents just at the briefing, and I will introduce you to them now, a few changes: to support the building of so-called. wet timber landfills; amend the provisions of Decree No. 101/1996, the obligation to cut bark land but concentrate on the territory where calamity can be stopped; in the form of a legislative emergency, extend the period of wooding in the forest law to five years; and further, to support technical measures against the spread of bark bark, such as the purchase of decoys, new methods for the destruction of barkworms in wood landfills, etc. However, as I have already mentioned, a number of other legislative measures need to be adopted, which will improve the way in which Czech forests are managed in the long term, which, in the present form, is the main cause of barking calamity in addition to the weather. Therefore, we will ourselves propose, support or strive for changes in the following four areas. Firstly, it is an amendment to forest law and related regulations, which will ensure species-variable forests, nature-near management and allow and order foresters to take better care of our common wealth. In the Forest Act, we would like to establish an obligation to restore forests in nature to a close species composition. In the law define what nature is close to species composition. More detailed specifications then in the amendment to Decree No. 83/1996. Also extend the obligation to forestate paseks and shins for five years, so far it is two years, and ensure the crop for 15 years in order to be able to use sufficiently natural rejuvenation. To limit the holodecks in deliberate mining. Basically manage without the holodecks. The use of a holodeck of up to one hectare. Only to be used in light-loving trees, e.g. oaks. In the event of a disaster, establish operational decision-making and allow no interference where interventions are not effective. It is necessary to amend Decree No. 83/1996. However, the current proposal, which has already been passed through the commentary procedure, is wrong. According to the current draft decree, e.g. it was possible to plant the spruce again on behalf of up to 75 per cent in Bruntálsko, where the spruce is lost. On the contrary, we believe that trees of the natural second composition need to be mentioned for each economic set. Instead of the minimum share of MZD - melioration and strengthening of trees - determine the maximum proportion of trees of non-originating plants or trees for a given risk habitat. It is also necessary to supplement the preparatory woods in the recovery of shavings such as birch, crane, willow, alder grey, which are not yet considered appropriate. Last but not least, extend the renewal period for preparatory up to 50 years, as well as adult crops, so that the next generation of the forest no longer has a uniform structure. In Decree No. 101/1996 it is necessary to adjust the procedure for the protection of forests in the case of calamity. Secondly, it should be the amendment to the Hunting Act No. 49/2001 Sb. and Follow-up Decree 553/2004 Coll. and 55/1999 Coll. Game hunting must be derived from the amount of damage in the woods, not from the easily manipulatable calculated states. The cloven-hoofed game is a limiting factor in the natural recovery of forests and also extremely expensive for the protection of planted leafy trees and fir. By decree, we must define what is disproportionate damage, in achieving it, to increase the hunting plan. The forest owners must be given the opportunity to directly recover the reduction of the conditions to bear. The existing system of decision-making through the hunting fellowship is inoperable. Thirdly, the special law on the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic, or the regulation of the current status of the state enterprise and the change of the economic model for the implementation of works and the sale of wood. State forests must change their behaviour and become a forestry stabiliser, particularly in the field of ecological and social. Their assignment will be to cultivate the forest of nature in a close way. Therefore, instead of maximizing profits, it is necessary to introduce a payment, a financial rent, which the les of the Czech Republic take away from the management of the forests of the state, and are not forced to concentrate on the creation of profit. Edit the specifics of procurement in forest management in relation to the Public Procurement Act. The sale of wood gradually separate from the extraction, provide it in its own direction, especially in the form of auctions. Performing part of the work by own employees, of course it is possible to achieve this gradually. And part of the operationally outsourcing. In doing so, it is essential to reduce the scope of mini-endry orders to reach local small businesses and businessmen. Gradually reach at least 40 per cent of the volume of work carried out by its own staff. Create good conditions for the work of law enforcement to pay sufficient attention to the care of forests, the award and control of the work of supply companies and employees. So it's best to narrow down the areas. Finally, fourthly, it would be a change in forest subsidies to support the nature of close and sustainable forest management and forest owners are motivated to protect nature in them. Support for non-passive management where appropriate. Support for keeping old trees and rotting wood in growth to improve soil status and promote biodiversity. Finally, to establish compliance with the minimum principles of good practice for promoting investment in forest management. Dear colleagues, these are specific changes that we can start working on immediately. TOP 09 is already working on some of its own proposals, but I call on the government to start preparing legislation that will change the way the Czech forests are managed. These are things proposed by real experts on the matter, and I think in many we also find agreement with individual ministries. Let me also propose our motion for a resolution, perhaps the fourth, but nevertheless. This is an effort to really fulfil the role that the Chamber of Deputies has in relation to the government. For we really should not be tasking her, rather controlling her, that is our role. That is why I would like to make a motion for a resolution. 1. The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the information of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment on bark sludge in the Czech Republic; 2. Instructs the Minister of Agriculture to submit information on the emergence of outbreaks and the subsequent spread of bark sludge from 2012 onwards, including information on measures taken to prevent the spread of bark sludge, information on the method of application of state management policy in the forests, the shortcomings of this policy and the consequences of these shortcomings, and finally information on the forthcoming solutions to the current management situation in the forests, taking into account in particular the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic. The resolution is more general than that put forward by Mr Holomčík, but we believe that it should just be more general. We should ask for this information from individual ministers, not from specific tasks. So I am asking you to support this resolution, which will certainly be voted on separately, and I will now put it to the rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u15	Thank you, too. I will therefore ask the rapporteur to submit a proposal, as will already happen. Mr Jurečka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u16	Thank you, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, honourable Members, almost everything has been said here. Let me also comment on the phenomenon of bark. This is a complex natural process due to this year's extremely dry and warm spring, although the beginnings of the problem can be seen already in 2015. This year's precipitation sum was below 50 percent of normal in February and April. This made spruce crops less resistant to bark. [[16.40 hours]] At the first signals of calamity in northern and southern Moravia, I decided first to see, hear and take a picture of the situation for myself. So I went through part of northern and southern Moravia with the participation of forest experts . Martin Fojt, whom I especially thank, . Petr Skočdopol, . Richard Podstatzký, I took part in an exit meeting in the Forests of the Czech Republic with the participation of . Tomáš Pospíšil responsible for the management of the Czech Forests. The last exit meeting took place in the Military Forests with the participation of Director . Josef Vojáček. I myself visited the Hradec Králové Municipal Forests with the participation of . Milan Zerzán. This was followed by round tables with the participation of all stakeholders. The result was an extraordinary meeting of the Agricultural Sub-Committee on Forestry on 11. 5. 2018. Here the subcommittee adopted a resolution which follows from the requirements of the bodies visited. The subcommittee called for negotiations by the Agriculture Committee, where one of the items on the agenda was the state of the crustacean calamity. Here I would like to thank Ing. The Kováčik who took up this matter. The Agricultural Committee accepted the points proposed by the Forestry Sub-Committee and adopted a resolution recommending the Ministry of Agriculture, Farmers and Foresters to allow the use of funds in drought-stricken localities. At the same time, I want to say that there is no universal solution to this situation. Whoever offers it today is in the role of a rain merchant. Let us not politicize this matter. It would be disrespectful to all those foresters who know their work, know what is needed in their localities, and the situation, believe me, can be managed. We're going to help them the most - I want to say that we won't be in the way, but I don't want to say that. We will help them most by listening and responding to their demands based on their expertise. I assure you that the entire agricultural committee, as well as the subcommittee on forestry, is working across the political spectrum to help foresters cope with their problems. So it is not a sensation, let us not look for cheap political points in the case of the victim, and it is not who is responsible. These are complex natural processes enhanced by climate change. Let's give time to the agricultural committee and all the great foresters I've known at all the meetings. They need one thing - legislative aid, financial assistance and quiet work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u17	Thank you, too. And Mr Jurečka, please, Mr Holík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u18	Good late afternoon. Mr President, my dear colleagues - I would like to say to you, the remaining Members, the Members who have been sitting here until now, there are not many of you here, there is a lack of you. On this topic, which relates to the catastrophic situation in the forests of the Czech Republic. In many of the contributions there were words about who was responsible, whether or not the principle of a proper economy was neglected by the management of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the state enterprise Lesa ČR. There were also words about this being the greatest calamity since Marie Terezie, etc. I will take the liberty of being a person who has been head of the Ministry of Agriculture for four years in the last parliamentary term, a few notes, mostly factual and based on figures and facts. If we are talking about the catastrophic situation, so when we look at historical developments, we cannot talk about the fact that it would be the biggest calamity situation in the Czech Republic, or historically in the Czech Republic. Czechoslovakia. There were calamitys in the 1970s and 1980s, which was also a local calamity in the Ore Mountains, where around 82,000 were affected back then. acres, then there was a monastic calamity in the 1920s and 1930s of the last, 20th century, which affected about 106 thousand. acres, and today we are talking about a situation of 40 thousand. hectares. I don't want to downplay her at all. I just want to put it into context that different types of calamity have plagued our forests in the past. At the moment when a man began to enter forest management 300 and 400 years ago, he began to influence the species composition of forests, so logically it carried along and carries with it certain risks that we deal with in various periods within some, we can say calamity, situations. Another significant phenomenon is that really climate change is beginning to manifest itself to us in the last, say, four or five years. We see extreme weather fluctuations, extremely dry years with low collisions, which logically leads to the fact that the plants are under much more stress. In a situation where this affected and weakened by stress simply increases the amount of peeling of the calf, which in that warm dry year with mild winter can also grow more times in the year than in the normal average year, these factors simply lead to the occurrence of an attack, there is an attack on the vegetation, which is just due to extremely dry and warm years. If you look at the database intersucho.cz , you can see where the drought has been since 2012 and, above all, the vegetation drought has been manifesting itself in the Czech Republic. We also see this significantly larger disability in the Moravian part of the Czech Republic, especially the regions of Moravian-Silesian and Olomouc. We also need to look at this through the optics that the similar problems that we are talking about here and my previous speakers have been talking about are also in the surrounding states. It is, above all, a problem for the whole of Central Europe. Slovakia, Austria, Germany, especially the Free State of Bavaria and Poland are facing a similar catastrophic situation as we are here. This development also follows, say, the last three years, and besides the crust, it has also added a significant factor, and that is precisely the influence of large windstorms, which we have been able to record repeatedly in Central Europe over the past two years. When we sum up all these factors together, we find that by looking at the data converted into one hectare of spruce crops, these Central European countries have a relatively high amount of harvested sludgewood, with the highest number per hectare of spruce crops having Slovakia, then Germany, namely the Free State of Bavaria, then the Czech Republic, then Poland and finally Austria. I'm saying this here because if sometimes the words came out here that the Czech Republic couldn't handle the situation, that we slept here and didn't make any mistakes, I deliberately mentioned the comparison, for example. with the Germany mentioned above, the Free State of Bavaria. For the Ministry of Agriculture in my time, when I was responsible for him and when I led this ministry, I must mention the great list of points that we have made. I have brought with me materials that relate to the problem of crust sludge. [[shows]] I'm not gonna read them to you here. It would take at least an hour and a half. But these are materials that have been published, which have been submitted and discussed at government meetings, these are materials that say what has been going on since 2015, what are the measures, what are the specific steps of the Ministry, the state management of forests at the level of municipalities with extended scope, but also the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic are doing. I'll allow myself to list some of them here, the most important ones that are recorded. Since 2015, the number of employees of the Forests of the Czech Republic has increased, the size of the grounds has been reduced so that the district has a better chance of seriously reviewing, controlling its territory, responding to the very crust of the affected area in the area. There was, of course, at the beginning of 2016 taking into account the first experience of the disaster situation of 2015 to modify the methodology recommendations for municipalities with extended scope, because these officials are very important factors in this article to address the crusting calamity in individual regions. In the order of tens of millions of crowns, the forests of the Czech Republic invested in the trappers, in networks, in prisons, so as to prevent the spread and further development of barking to the maximum extent possible. [[16.50 hours]] A nationwide monitoring of the movement of barkworms in the Czech Republic has been introduced, so that other owners of municipal, church and private forests also have the opportunity to check through this application, through this web interface, where, in which locations there is the occurrence of barkworms. There was also last year in a situation where windstorms occurred here in the first week of August, quite soon, to a significant limitation and subsequent cessation of all mining outside the intentional ones. It was a reaction to the crisis situation that escalated in this way last year. Of course, in the last three years, there has also been a change in the species planting of trees in the restored localities. Today there are locations where the planting of leaf plants is at the level of 60 percent of the new planting, for example on the border of Olomouc and Moravian-Silesian Region. So it's not what anyone's mentioned and says that the last three years here have been betting on the same amount of spruce, but the change logically had to happen and occur. But I just want to remind you that there are also localities here, perhaps colleagues from Litovelsky Pomoraví could talk about it, where, on the other hand, deciduous vegetation also has its pests, it also bears its problems. It is not the solution that from one monoculture to another type of monoculture, even for someone from the lay public, it can look positive and nice. There was also a significant increase in the number of individual competitions of territorial units in the Czech Forests competition model, i.e. large competition units that competed broke into small so that even smaller, small and medium-sized companies would have a chance to succeed in these contracts so that they would not be handicapped by large bank guarantees. The increase in those units was about 60 percent. We have also separated growing and mining activities from each other in many locations, and it has been shown that, above all, small companies at the level of tradesmen have succeeded in these contracts. When we look at the list in the last three years, there are many companies that have historically succeeded for the first time ever in orders for growing or mining activities. About 30 percent of the annual mining at the Forests of the Czech Republic is carried out by auction, i.e. by auction of presentations or electronics. So it's not true that everything is sold in the model of a single big contract. Last year we also made preparations for the modification of contracts that competed on tender since 2018, and today forests have the opportunity, if the government, the new Minister and the management of the Czech Forests use it, thanks to the wording of these contracts to start using sales at the so-called demand point, in the Oemk. The treaties make it possible today, and it is only up to the government to see if it goes this way, and this model will start to promote and address more. The activity was also strengthened within the capacity of the workers of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Some of the previous speakers were bumping into it. For the past two years, people have been moving from other localities of the Czech Republic to the catastrophic areas, especially in the Central Moravia region, and these people are destroying bark sludge here. De facto the volume of excavated sludgewood that can mine the Forests of the Czech Republic thanks to its own capacities is in the order of hundreds of thousands of ccs, it is definitely not marginal amount. So what someone from the outside logically sees that we should do with our own forces like the Forests of the Czech Republic, this is also happening in practice, even the mentioned increase in personnel capacity, which has also been reflected in a rather significant volume over the last three years. The issue of contracts and the fact that these contracts are a certain handicap in a crisis situation has also been mentioned here. I would like to explain that the contract will compete with the entity at the Forests of the Czech Republic for five years. Of course, he's making some offers in a situation. At a time when such a situation will occur as last year, when due to the calamity not only in the Czech Republic, but in the whole region of Central Europe, the price of wood will fall hugely due to force majeure, at which point it is of course a very complicated situation for companies. Therefore, on the basis of the materials submitted by me, supplemented, of course, by the analysis of the whole situation, the government decided to allow the Ministry of Agriculture to allow companies that decided to withdraw from these contracts to take this step. If we hadn't done this, it would have meant the collapse of the entire system of companies that are mining in the Czech Republic. It is necessary to realize that companies also do mining not only for the forests of the Czech Republic but also for other owners. This is a description of the main points that we have done in three years in the context of dealing with a catastrophic situation. Now, I would briefly mention what to do, what to look for solutions, because I think that's the important thing, why we're dealing with this point here today and we're dealing with it. First of all, solve the labour shortage very quickly, because here we can talk about how to deal with it, but if we can't get it out of the forest in days, weeks, we can't fight the spread of barkwood to other locations. It is, of course, also a question of logistics, transport infrastructure, ČD Cargo, then also to be able to repair damaged communications, which are often in other property than the state. It is also a question of dealing with the financial situation of the owners of these forests, and not only private but also municipal, because they often have losses today. If they are owners who have virtually all their areas in a crappy area, so they are faced with great problems. Here the state should help, like Bavaria or Austria did, where they could do it in months. And then also help solve the issue of overcrowded wood market. Here I see a few options besides the already mentioned wet landfill, which is a temporary solution, that is to postpone the problem for the future, especially the use of wood processing. There was a biomass. I would also add solutions such as the reduction of VAT on wood, wood pellets, fuel wood, briquettes, building materials and wood as such to the lowest reduced rate of 10 per cent of VAT in order to encourage the processing and use of wood in the Czech Republic to reduce these materials so that people use them more, because half of the amount of wood harvested in the Czech Republic will be exported in the form of logs that we will not process, we will not add any added value abroad. I will propose this proposal in the second reading of the amendment to the VAT Act in order to support these matters. From long-term solutions - some have already been mentioned here. These are legislative changes, especially amendments to forest law, hunting law, or the creation of a law on the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic, the amendment of the crisis law and, of course, a very important discussion about the role of forests in the Czech Republic as such is also about setting enough incentive support for forest owners to be able to achieve even more the emphasis on the environmental benefits of forests as such, not just economic. However, these two should still be in symbiosis, they should not be excluded. After all, forest owners in the Czech Republic also expect to manage and operate this property with profit, and this is how it should be treated. Let me make a brief comment on the issue of some resolutions. I think that, quite in detail and expertly, 14 days ago, the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, where the resolution that was adopted is, I think, at a very technical level, with clear tasks for the Ministry of Agriculture, the environment, industry and trade, and, of course, for the whole government, because it is not just specific tasks, it is also a question of securing finance in the state budget for next year as well. I think that this resolution really has its quality. I do not know how many resolutions that have been read here with quite a lot of detailed tasks should be adopted here at such a broad plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention and I hope that the forests of the Czech Republic will enjoy better fitness and better health. Hello, forest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u19	Thank you, too. Now, before I invite another speaker, President Kováčik has given me priority rights. Before I give him my word, I have a note here. As of today's meeting, Mr Sklenák apologizes for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u20	Mr President, my lords and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. At the beginning of my brief speech, because many have been said here and I do not want to repeat it, I would like to thank two colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies, thanks to whose insistence, thanks to whose pressure this point is really on our agenda today, and this is Mr Podal and colleague Holomčík. [[17,00 hours]] In the agricultural committee we discussed these things, we visited both the Forests of the Czech Republic and the Military Forests and Farms. Mr Podal and some others have also been around the individual owners of the forests, and this is the performance of Mr Podal and some others, including Minister Jurečka, faithfully depicting the current situation. This state of affairs is something like a fire that we are now riding on as firefighters, we would like the fire to be extinguished as soon as possible, and to also find the causes and be introduced, if it is possible, effective prevention, that the calamity, not only barkworm, but there was talk about monks, there was talk about the calamity in the Ore Mountains caused by fallout, i.e. emission or emission calamity, exactly, etc., so that we simply in the future all the functions of the forest, which the forest has, also managed to maintain. At this point, I would like to propose, because I hear various motions for a resolution, or I read various motions for a resolution, a kind of comprehensive, sort of generalising, some kind of umbrella resolution or a motion for a resolution, which would give clear rules especially to those who answer, i.e. Ministers, the Government of the Czech Republic, and who would say what can be done effectively in this situation. At the same time, of course, I agree with those who talk about the need to find and affect the culprits, but again I say yes, of course, but only after the fire is extinguished. Until then, and the danger exists, we could drown ourselves in mutual discussions about whether the person who hasn't left the rain or the one who has been putting out spruce monoculture since the 18th century. After all, we're in the problem of crust, but that's the aggregate name, because for example. in the district of Třebíč next to the spruce crops are very heavily affected by the pine crops and there is no bark. So it's more of a complex problem. So let me propose a resolution and ask you to support it. This resolution is complex, not in part, but to vote en bloc. Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Ministry of Agriculture to: I. the implementation of the legislative changes needed to combat barking effectively and, where appropriate, other disasters in the woods; II. adaptation of grant titles in the Gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture to support, in particular, non-state forest owners compensating for increased costs associated with bark sludge. - If anyone has a problem with it or if they have a problem with it, it's just that the situation is affected in the complex, not just in the state forests or in the forests of the Czech Republic. That was a comment. Now again to the proposal. - IV. on coordinating negotiations with stakeholders when opening key topics such as the revision of strategic forestry documents of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests of the Czech Republic, modification of the public administration system, solution of operational needs related to bark sludge across the resorts. 4. It asks the Ministry of Agriculture to inform the government regularly of the measures taken in relation to the barking calamity. It is a proposal that summarises the whole discussion into individual points so that we can finally review the earlier-looking one, today a rather obsolete wooden book. The point is that by modifying the public administration system, we can make it possible, for example, to repair those roads that are not owned by forests, but, for example, by personal or private ownership, those roads that are damaged by the transport, but also that we can solve the operational needs associated with bark sludge across the resorts, so that we can even agree that there will be sufficient capacity to balance wood from the forest, to take it to the place of processing or storage, to open storage facilities, to talk about wet wood, etc. So it is a motion for a resolution that aggregates all the proposals that have been made so far, all the needs that are in relation to the item under discussion, into a short, concise and clear text. Thank you for your attention, also with the greetings of the forest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u21	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Good afternoon to all of you. We are continuing the debate with the speech of Mr Jaroslav Holík, prepared by Mrs Vrecionová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u22	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, fellow Members, I confess, I wanted to speak out more critically, but after the report by Minister Toman, Minister Brabec and, in fact, former Minister Jurečka, I have reduced my fight here a little bit, because there have been thoughts that are very close to me. The Czech Republic has been plagued for several years by the villain, the spruce, or bark. The expression of his activity is a falling needle, which yellows, and subsequently the death of a tree, spruce drowned. Ladies and gentlemen, the barking calamity has not been caused by Kyrill's organ, which has been with us for about 50 years. First it was Ore Mountains and Jizera Mountains destroyed and weakened by industrial exhalations, now it is Sumava and Beskydy. The bark is always attacked by weakened trees. And what do we as humans do? We're dealing with the consequences. We cut down the affected trees, we burn the affected wood, we do lime, spray, and we don't realize that we have to solve the cause. And there are several causes, and in all cases, the culprit is human. First of all, we have a disrupted ecosystem. The natural development of the landscape and the insensitive melioration resulted in a significant reduction in the level of groundwater. Secondly, it is the planting of monoculture, the spruce, with which we largely pushed out the original plant vegetation. Thirdly, it is a change in the status of forestry workers. Now, if you don't mind, I'm gonna stop at each of these points a little bit. So the greatest changes in the landscape are caused by man's activity. We're all worried about drought, but the amount of rainfall doesn't change in our territory. Only their character changes. Yes, it's reducing the amount of snowfall, but most importantly, it's raining differently. Impact and on smaller surfaces. Water from short-term heavy rains does not seep, but on the contrary, deep and steeped river beds and streams away. Underground water thus does not fill up and after a short heavy rain these artificially created flows dry again. The rapid increase in built - up areas, which have increased by about 250 square miles [250 sq km] since 1990, has had a major impact on water retention. Ladies and gentlemen, getting water in asphalt and concrete is zero, we all know that. Landscape has lost its ability to capture and contain water. Natural hydrological structures such as watercourses, springs, marshes are destroyed from the vast majority. Plant vegetation is a moisture battery and heat regulator. Concrete and asphalt do not absorb heat, but they radiate it. This speeds up air heating, speeds up its flow, climate fluctuations occur, such as. Kyrill windstorms, extreme droughts occur, and torrential rainfall causes floods. We fight the flood by regulating flows. [[17.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, at present, the length of the watercourses has been reduced by about a third and further by increasing agricultural production in the 1970s and 1980s, and this drainage system is unnecessarily draining about 15 percent of the water. [[Noise from the left.]] If I could just ask a little less of these conversations...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u23	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. Leave it to me. I will ask the House for peace so that you can present your contribution safely and in a dignified atmosphere. Those who discuss anything other than a spruce-eating icy, let them transfer their discussions to the foyer and allow those who are interested in this point to be properly discussed. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u24	Thank you, Mr President. And the next point is human greed. Sorry, today it's called a successful business plan or business activity. Yes, since Marie Terezie, we've been spruce-smelling. It grows fast, has good wood processing and brings high profits. That's profits. So now instead of 11 percent, which was a natural representation in our territory, we have more than 50 percent. We have been growing in the same place since the 4th to 5th generation, with all the negative consequences, such as the molds that remain, and all the pests that remain in this soil. And now the negatives. The spruce has a shallow root system... [[Again, notes from the left.]] I don't know if it's worth... Okay. So the spruce has a shallow root system, and therefore it is prone to twists and halfs. During the drought, it doesn't reach the bottom water. It is weakened and therefore unable to face the crust. Dry years 2015, 2016, 2017 meant a drop in subsurface water and a rapidly growing spruce needs this water to form a resin, i.e. a defensive fluid without which it can't defend itself, and if it doesn't, the pests will destroy the tree. Our forests are currently spruce deserts. They lack leafy leaves and it speeds up or facilitates the movement of beetles to other trees. The third problem is the transformation of state forests that took place in the 1990s, which was for the minister or for the director of Mr Oliva. State forests have lost part of their production capacity, that is, workers, machines, sawmills, real estate. Another problem is that we are selling trees to business companies today that are cutting down huge areas. Large-scale mining drains the landscape and reduces resistance to the sentence, and this method of extraction is so serious that it overcomes the ecosystem disruptions. Another tragedy is really the emergence of so-called. wooden books, a model that was introduced in 2012, thus this model fixes sales up-to-date, which is disadvantageous for the state. The Forests of the Czech Republic became merely an administrator. A number of forest experts have gone to these stock companies. That's where the foresters lost contact with the woods and moved from the grove to the offices. They no longer go to the woods with their dog in the morning, and instead of seeing changes in the vegetation, they fill in unnecessary forms that the EU allegedly requires of us. Operation's gone. At the time of the barking calamity before the supplier competes, the crop is completely destroyed and the barking ground is already completely elsewhere. So if you don't mind, I'd like to make some of my own recommendations here. Limit spruce crops and replace them with food, beech, pine, oak, ash, birch, larch and other species. Two. Restore natural hydrogeological structures such as meanders, marshes, ponds that significantly promote water accumulation and cool the landscape and slow down the cycle of water in nature. Three. Plant roofs of large-scale buildings, such as factories, supermarkets, logistics centres, etc., plant growth, which accumulates part of the solar radiation, reduces average temperature and slows wind currents. For another, change the forest law that will enable forest managers to become more operational. Furthermore, I consider it important to delete the wooden book. The correct model is the transport of wood to the place, i.e. The foresters cut down the trees, zoom in and sell them. Yes, for example, in auctions. And during this activity they will have considerably more time for better control of wood matter. So, ladies and gentlemen, the crusty tree didn't create the stumpy moon landscape. That's what we humans made for each other. The kůrovec is only punishing us for our mistakes. If we avoid them, there is a great hope that nature will still help us. If we don't intervene, in a few years, the natural enemies of the crust, such as the multi-circles and other insects, the lower fungi and fungi, and the beetle will eventually retreat. This also happened during the gradation of the crust on the Bavarian side of Šumava. Ladies and gentlemen, grown forests, we'll wait for them for decades. Let me ask you, do we have any patience for this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u25	I thank Mr Jaroslav Holík for his speech. It is now Mrs Vrecionová's turn to prepare Mr Martinů. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u26	Thank you. Have a nice evening. Everyone here always starts their talk by saying he's sorry he's gonna try to be short. I'm not sorry, but I'm probably gonna be very long. We are here - and my colleague, the Chairman of the Forestry Sub-Committee, mentioned what we were doing. I myself have also met a number of people from practice, experts, various groups and for many months we have been dealing with the topic of barking and I have decided that here with a number of knowledge, which unfortunately often also go against each other, she wanted to share with you now. However, I have to start a little politically. We have a vote tomorrow on government trust. The media is constantly discussing Mrs malý, Mr Poche, and while we are at the barking calamity, my colleague Zahradník has already been here - I ask what Minister Brabec? It was about two months ago when Andrej Babiš criticized the state for accessing the cruststorm. According to the Minister of Environment in demise - sorry, not in demise, it was in demise, it has been reappointed, the state facing the greatest cruststorm since Marie Terezie. According to Babiš, the former administration of the Ministry of Agriculture is to blame, which was inadequately communicating with other ministries and allowed the situation to reach its current state. Then the government promptly found the culprit and called off the director of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Please read Law No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests, i.e. forest law, where it is written in § 50: The Ministry of the Environment, within the framework of the exercise of the supreme state supervision, sees how the authorities of the state administration, legal and natural persons comply with the provisions of this law, the regulations issued for its implementation and decisions issued on its basis. It shall be entitled to impose measures to remedy deficiencies. [[17.20 hours]] I'd ask the Prime Minister - he's not here. Mr. Environment Minister, what do you think? Not only were you two months ago when you had only noticed the barking calamity, when, in my opinion, Minister Brabec was to be called off at that time, and not only was he not called off, but he was now appointed Prime Minister to a new government that will come to ask for trust tomorrow. Richard Brabec himself said a few weeks ago that the disaster caused damage to the state for some 7 billion crowns, which fell the profits of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Of course, someone should be held responsible for such damage to the state. And that, in my opinion, is the Minister Brabec, because the Ministry should have done and did not act by law long ago. I don't know if I should sum up the numbers that were available. In 2015, 1.5 miles were mined in the Czech Republic. cubic meters, in 2016 already 3 million, and in 2017 even 4.5 million. Meters of cubic barkwood. The area conversion is approximately 22,000. hectares of cut forest in the whole territory of the Czech Republic. Now I'd like some opinions to be heard here... I just wanted to say, because at first I met very often that many people actually think that the forests of the Czech Republic are actually the ones that take care of all the forests in our country. I've got some numbers around here. The forests of the Czech Republic cover actually about 48 percent of the forest area in our country. Then there are smaller areas, let them be regional forests, military forests and church forests. Then the significant number is still municipal and urban forests. These cover 17 percent. And almost 20 percent of them are private-owned forests, not all of them of course, but most of them are organized in the so-called. SVOL, which is the Association of Owners of Municipal Private Forests, where, you know, I don't speak for very few people, where about 1,250 forest owners are organized with a total area of 400 thousand. hectares of forest. If the current barking calamity in the Czech lands is the worst in the last 100 years, as some foresters, forest experts, have said, I dare not judge. However, it is quite obvious that the situation needs to be resolved in some way. But it is a whole range of steps that must be taken. Above all, it is necessary to change the way in which forest management is managed, which, like agriculture, suffers from a large production method of forest management. Some laws need to be amended, so many previous speakers have spoken about it. I'm sorry, I'm in the material as continuously as I've listened to it today, and I've been cutting it off, so now I'm hoping I won't repeat some things unnecessarily. However, even this is what the SVOL, the Association of Owners of the Municipal Private Forests, claims in its press release of 28 June this year - and now I would like to read the press release: Forest owners are worried about the fate of the legal standard to provide them with expert advice for foresting and restoring forests. After more than 20 years, ways of restoring forests could be modernised. After two years of expert work, the Ministry of Agriculture prepared a new legal standard, a decree that regulates the methods of forest management. However, many conflicting amendments, often disrespecting the legal order of the Czech Republic, have gathered in the commentary procedure, let alone the professional context. The association of owners of municipal and private forests therefore warns against the resulting chaos, which began to influence the creation of this important methodical tool for forest management. The autumn foresting season is coming up, it is necessary to plan what will be betting next spring and the following years. It will be necessary to provide seedlings for the birth of new forests. The forest owners would therefore welcome the fact that the draft decree under consideration would apply as soon as possible, preferably already in September, in its prepared version, with only minor modifications. The existing Decree No. 83/1996 Coll., on the processing of regional plans for the development of forests and on the definition of economic sets, applies unchanged for more than 20 years. At present, it is no longer able to respond flexibly to the increasingly clear manifestations of climate change and the changing demands of society as well as technological development. The threats arising from the advancing climate change have been seen for decades. Lack of precipitation, lack of water, drought, increasing temperature, mild warm dry winters, hot spring and summers with stormy rains and lightning floods. We all observe these consequences. Forests respond to them with delays, but even more dramatic. Two hundred years means only two generations to the forest. But it is ten generations in humans. The ability to adapt gradually to change in time is certainly easier in ten generations and, of course, more obvious than in the same time in two generations. The proposal for a new decree prepared by a team of experts, experts and scientists is actively responding to the current needs of forestry management in the context of changing natural conditions due to climate change. It is part of the National Action Plan for adaptation to climate change. The draft decree releases the forest farmers in their hands and allows them to use the broadest possible compositions of trees corresponding to the site and regional climate in response to its current changes, without bringing forest owners to their knees economically at the same time, says . František Kučera, Chairman of SVOL. The species spectrum of suitable trees is modified to reflect the expected temperature shift. However, it is not possible for objective reasons, e.g. Inverse positions and other habitat specifics, completely figuratively reject the growing of spruce in lower third and fourth forest vegetation positions. In these cases, due to the expected climate change, attention is drawn to the increased risk associated with its development into age tolls. However, on behalf of the spruce at these sites, it may have its reasons, for example. in increasing biodiversity, in fulfilling other functions of forests. The emphasis is placed on partial replacement of the spruce site by suitable trees in relation to the natural forest area and in the relevant economic sets. Artificial recovery of spruce is not recommended until the third forest growing stage except for suitable ecotypes and habitats. The final decision is then left to the owner's balance sheet and to the forest manager to adjust the composition of the trees according to the specific natural conditions of their forests. Forestry legislation is now a complex legal and professional system, as well as in any other human field. Its interventions must respect the interrelationship between individual standards and professional contexts. Last but not least, natural processes, the real state of nature, forests, but also the necessary amount of seed, seedlings, from which sources and how long it can be obtained. Well - meaning intentions and radical changes do not always lead to good results. Forests look more like evolution than revolutions. Less than 1 per cent of the total area of forests will be recovered each year. The decree as a sub-law cannot directly impose obligations and prohibitions that go beyond legal authorisation. It cannot be directed towards further restrictions on property rights and strengthening the authoritarian position of the state administration. The obligation of a minimum proportion of melioration and strengthening trees is laid down by law. The specific species composition in the crop groups is specified for the owner only in the forest economic plan. We consider this principle to be fully adequate for the responsible owners. That's the end of the press release. I would like to stress that in order to improve the situation in our forests, all who have something to say should join forces. So far, we have seen completely contradictory views, which I think my colleagues will also confirm, on a number of systemic steps. For example, as the Association of Municipal and Private Forest Owners also points out in view of the role and representation of spruce crops in the species composition of the forest. [[17.30 hours]] That is why I would like to present the conclusions of the Czech FOREST forestry think tank, which represents mostly practical foresters and which was 13 in the middle of last month. 6. 2018, published his view of the issue, especially on the recommendation of the Rainbow Movement, which, unlike the think tank CZECH FOREST, has been widely mediated, while the position of the CZECH FOREST has hardly been publicized, and therefore I would like to quote some passages or conclusions here: The members of the forestry think tank find it hard to believe the level of regulation that the non-profit organization of the Rainbow Movement is trying to bring into the Czech forestry sector, which is governed by one of the strictest forest laws in Europe. - That's why I was surprised by the minister who also took them on his team. - In some aspects, the package does not take into account current conditions of management, ownership and forest owners practically deprives them of the possibility of deciding on their own property. Moreover, it represents a very narrow view of a small part of the citizens of sustainable forest management. Nevertheless, the members of the forestry think tank assess some of the proposed measures as beneficial because many of the proposals are based on years of forestry research and experience. However, they consider that a careful consideration of the context and a clear definition of social order is necessary for the legislative processing of the part of the proposal. The proposed measures of the Rainbow Movement are completely lacking the quantification of economic costs likely to be in the order of billions of crowns. Is the Czech company prepared to finance these costs? The measure would also mean limiting the production of wood as the only really renewable organic material. Are we ready to replace wood with plastics and other non-recoverable materials that burden the environment or selfishly import wood from countries where the destruction of nature occurs due to illegal logging? And now some objective data on forestry: Members of CZECH FOREST think tank must stress, on the basis of objective data, that there has been a change of management in the Czech forests for some 25 years, which responds to predictions of climate change. Over the past 10 years, the overall representation of coniferous trees has decreased by 2.8 percent, by 6.4 % in the Moravian-Silesian region and by 4.6 percent in Olomouc. The share of deciduous trees for restoration is 61.2 %, in altitudes up to 400 metres, the share of deciduous trees is even 80 percent. It is necessary to realize that foresters can change the species composition of about 1 percent of Czech forests each year, says Miloš Kučera, expert on forest inventory. The representation of the introduced trees - these are the non-originating trees - is only 1.6% and the current forestry legislation certainly does not allow for a dramatic increase, even though, according to long-term research by Czech foresters, Douglaska is a very promising tree that does not bring the risk of unwanted spread. Within the Czech Republic, 25 cubic meters of dead wood are left on average in all its forms per hectare of forest, corresponding to more than 10 adult trees. However, if, on a large scale, dry trees were left in the woods, there is no information in the package that would bear the costs and, in particular, the responsibility for damage to health and life caused by the fall of branches or trees. Monocultures, rightly called unmixed crops, form only 13.9 percent of cropland in the Czech Republic. So speaking of remaining in the economic model of monoculture, as stated in the Rainbow Movement document, is certainly not an objective fact, but rather a purposeful disinformation. Forestry management. Thanks to the production of wood to forest owners, the state, private owners, municipalities bring income from which the entire forestry management, including non-production and environmental functions, finance, maintain so much needed employment in the countryside and, last but not least, allow investment in forestry infrastructure. Revenue from timber production is also used to finance the restoration of the forest and changes in the species composition of forest crops. As the forestry practice has shown, the most efficient renewed vegetation is the quickest possible restoration of the vegetation. Long-term unforested shins suffer from erosion. The water regime is disrupted, there are large differences in daily and night temperatures, which negatively affect the state of the soil and thus increase the risk of flooding, says Petr Martinec, a specialist in the field of forest nursery. From the past experience of foresters with the cultivation of economic forests throughout Central Europe, it is clear that natural renewal should be a preferred way of restoring forests and cannot be used everywhere. To put it simply, where nothing grows naturally, artificial renewal must occur, as well as on areas where spruce is growing in inappropriate habitats or on the crappy areas where we want to grow a species - colored forest. This approach is also elected in the territory of national parks. At the present level of knowledge and limited possibilities of quality prediction of climate development, it is not possible to make responsible decisions preferring some species of our original trees to others. It should be noted that there are problems with barkworm in the surrounding states. Slovakia, southern Poland, Austria, Bavaria. But to the west of us there is no question of forestry management of forest owners, but rather of significant aid to the state affected areas, says Petr zahradník, one of the leading forest conservation experts in the Czech Republic. The balíček of measures The Rainbow Movement does not respect the right of forest owners to make their own decisions. In addition to the environmental benefits, the forest is a source of wood and the livelihood of thousands of citizens. The proposed measures would seriously affect the economic self-sufficiency of owners. Sadly, it has become a tradition for us to apply various restrictions and regulations to foresters and completely forgotten instruments of positive motivation, adds Michal Pernica, director of administration of the largest private forests in the Czech Republic. Many of the proposed measures of the Rainbow Movement are already possible under current legislation and foresters commonly use them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u27	I will also interrupt you, Madame, and ask the House once again for peace. Discussions that do not concern, I repeat once again, a spruce-eating icy, please, into the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Many of the proposed measures of the Rainbow Movement are already possible under current legislation and foresters - sorry, I repeat this already. An example can be given of the possibility of mining in growths of up to 80 years of age, relaxation of time, water management according to forest type and crop type. Unfortunately, most of the proposals of the Rainbow Movement are, according to the views of the think tank members, designed rather as a political assignment for the state forests. This is not to say that some proposals could not be beneficial in the future. For example, the mechanism clearly defined rents for managing the state forest paid by the Forest of the Czech Republic to the State and from it the deductible damage for management in favour of environmental measures is a good idea. A contribution to the state budget would be given in advance and the law could end up hunting for the astronomical economic results of the Forests of the Czech Republic, which do not go in favour of the forest. According to the views of the members of the forestry think tank, however, some proposals of the Rainbow Movement do not come from the real state of development of the forest and objective data. Moreover, they come at a time when the state should have other objective data based on priorities, the solution of which must be rapid and effective. For the following months, the members of the think tank consider securing workers into the forests, avoiding the tide of existing qualified forces into Germany and Austria, promoting the storage of wood, promoting the rendering of barkwood, stabilizing the wood market or the rapid progress of government authorities against owners who do not properly protect the forest in their forests and thereby endanger neighbouring crops. [[17.40 hours]] I think we met during our trips in a number of places that the Forests of the Czech Republic and others complain about the lack of workers, or that even when they come from abroad, they move on very quickly. I think it really is a question for our tax system, too, because I think, for example, it would be very helpful to reduce the tax contributions that are one of the largest in Europe. Then I have a passage I wanted to dedicate to what Minister Toman said yesterday. However, since he's in office for about a week, I'll be saving him for now, but I'll keep an eye on him, and I'll probably keep it for the next time. Let's hope he succeeds. I'd like to take a turn, too, because here, actually, there's a critique of spruce coming from my previous speakers all the time. Of course, I know that spruce is grown in a number of places where conditions are not appropriate. However, I would also like to say, and it has also been said here somewhere, that our forests are not only threatening the crust that attacks the spruce, which is the spruce icy-eating, but from the forecast of the Forest Protection Service of the Forest Research Institute and Hunting, it will be possible to expect, in addition to the crusty and waclava sludge and the regional wasting and dying of pine crops, an increase in the disease of the alder mold and an increase in the dwindling and dying of oaks. The Forest Protection Service presented this prognosis at this year's international seminar in Průhonice. I would also like to read you one paragraph here, because I think it's like we're just going to change the kind of song immediately, that everything will be resolved, that it's really a very simplified solution, that it's not. So please allow me to quote again from this seminar: Improving the current extremely adverse situation can only be expected if the year 2018 will be climate-normal, sufficiently rich in precipitation as evenly distributed as possible during the year. It will also be necessary to closely monitor the population status of the beggar of the monk in order to respond in time to her possible gradation, which cannot be excluded. Due to its disproportionately high conditions, damage to the vegetation by the cloven-hoofed animals will continue to be very significant in a number of regions, the expected situation was outlined by experts from the Forest Protection Service headed by Miloš Knížek. The development of the forest year follows the course of the previous year, when in many places the barking calamity increased in spruce growths. The overall situation was also further aggravated by the windstorms, which resulted in the emergence of large-scale semimes. The weakening of the crops by climate influences, according to experts, becomes an important factor affecting the state of the forests. Last year, the volume of registered spruce barkwood increased to 3.74 million cc. This is a lower but significant increase compared to the previous year, where approximately 3 million cc's of barkwood were recorded. Again, the dominant share of the attack belonged to a spruce, i.e. accompanied by a shiny, locally also a smaller and matt-flavored calf. Especially in the northern central Moravia and Silesia, the barkwood was also significantly recorded in the volume of the North Moravia and Silesia. If the volume registered in 2017 is differentiated into the total area of forests in the Czech Republic, we will reach a value of more than 5 million cc's of barkwood, which is approximately one million cc's more than in the previous year, warns the Forest Protection Service. In my view, while it is necessary to base on these issues in dealing with the crusty calamity, it is still necessary to state that all the measures in question are rather a solution to the current problem, which is of course extremely important and very intensively addressed at the moment, but at the same time we should also be very intensive about preventing crusty other forestry sludges into the future. In my opinion, this requires completely different steps and opening up a discussion on topics that no one is actually talking about today, and even that did not sound right here today. The main thing, as I have already mentioned, is the change in the way the forests are managed. This also has to do with the need for changes in the conditions announced by the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic so that local entrepreneurs from the regions can also achieve forestry contracts, I think that has already been mentioned here. That is what I would like to raise - in which the forests of the Czech Republic declare contracts. To this end, the existing contractual territorial units to which the selection procedures are drawn up should be reduced. This means that the number of these contracted territorial units should increase. This was partly the case in the past, which was also mentioned by the Member Minister Jurečka. However, the present deconcentration appears to be insufficient. I would very much like us to continue with this. Another problem is the conditions for declaring a crisis situation. And in that place, it is necessary to ask why such a condition was not declared, including, even though the predecessors of Minister Toman had actually demanded it when the risk of the expansion of the barkworm in our woods was known. In the case of the Kirill Orcan, I have two pages of the description of what happened 11 years ago in the Kirill Orcan. I know this may be far from relevant, but I am firmly convinced that there are two main points that have helped greatly that the consequences have been removed quickly. So one of them was a declaration of calamity, and the other was that modern technology was deployed. But I think, and I'm very sorry this hasn't happened yet. And I don't know, that's again - I just consulted with the experts yesterday, if it's actually not too late this year, if it's not until next spring. But I think it could have been prevented if he had been declared far more damaging. I just can't forgive myself a little bit here, because the important question here is, why wasn't the crisis declared this year? Because of the situation in the forest, or on the basis of political and lobbyist pressures? It is no secret, and that is what I hear today and every day when I speak with some foresters and people from the Forests of the Czech Republic that this situation suits large mining companies, which, of course, include Holding Agrofert, which persistently but still increase their share of logging in the Czech Republic, thus gradually controlling the mining industry by one, perhaps a monopoly entity in the future. I would appeal, Minister, to appeal to the announcement. Our forestry needs the exact opposite. And these are things that haven't been heard yet. A number of smaller and medium-sized miners who would also be local wood processors with knowledge of the territory that live in that place and who operate explicitly. The reconnection of foresters and local wood processors to a specific forest site is crucial. To do this it is necessary to open up more space for the contractual partners of the Forests of the Czech Republic from among smaller mining and wood processing companies, as it is... This is precisely what needs to be reduced by existing contracted territorial units, as it is called the SÚJ for work, so that smaller, preferably local companies can also be applied to the area of smaller territories. The proximity of the company to the territory on which it will provide services for the Forests of the Czech Republic should be appropriately evaluated in terms of procurement by the Forests of the Czech Republic. [[17.50 hours]] Small and medium-sized forestry companies must be followed up by local wood processors, which means local sawmills - I have already talked about it with Minister Milek, he has not refused to support this idea - which do not need a large number of wood materials to exist in economic terms, and can therefore process wood from individually felled trees that could pose a risk of barking expansion. This also assumes detailed knowledge of the relevant forest crops from the local foresters, which is why it is so important that they are the people from the place or the sawmillers, and thus increase employment in forest care. Preferably combined with other activities, such as agricultural activities, which would ensure the possibility of cumulation of income so that work in the forest is of interest. That's what I'm talking about because I'm the chairman of the Rural Resurrection Clave. We're constantly dealing with the depopulation of the countryside, the fact that people are leaving for work. And I think that it would - I'm not saying it's a cure for everything - but it would undoubtedly help this situation. On the way to more responsible work on the forest, there is more support for small local sawmills than hastily changing the structure of forest crops mainly because such a change is a measure for decades. While supporting small and medium-sized forestry entrepreneurs is a measure that can be done practically immediately. In my opinion, improvement in the health of our forests is not only possible in forestry measures, but in the context of the state of our landscape as a whole and especially in combination with changes in agriculture. That's what I think is something that didn't come up here today either. So far, no one has pointed out in this context that virtually all forests in the Czech Republic are adjacent to agricultural land, which are most commonly fields. But these are the fields that can't contain water enough in the landscape. Definitely less than the forest, especially if it is large uninterrupted areas. Dry fields also work together in drying out forests. This is a topic that we have talked about many times, that, in fact, not only this problem, dividing the big lines would be very helpful. According to research of the generally beneficial company ENKI Třeboň, which deals with applied research in the field of solar landscape energy, pond management and water management in the countryside and also focuses on education, education and innovation programs, namely the warm air produced over the warm surface of the landscape significantly drys. According to research, air at 25 degrees Celsius contains an average of 22 grams of water vapor in a cubicle of water. Air at 40 degrees Celsius but more than double, i.e. 50 grams of water vapor in a cubicle of water. It's a speech called -- and now it's a terrible word -- evapotranspiration, popularly called vapor. Here's another page I don't think I want to burden you with at this point. But I think it's very interesting to look into it. But how much of our large, wide-ranging homelands to sink those shallow groundwater levels - those are the ones that, for example, the spruce really needs because it does not have deep roots - they are involved in forest growths - so far, no one has yet found out. I don't think anyone thought of it. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Can I just ask, Mr President? I can't hear you again. I'm having trouble talking. I know it's probably not interesting...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u29	I'll ask your colleagues and colleagues to remain calm in the hall. Mrs Vrecionová has some very interesting information from the seminar, so please let her finish her performance in a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u30	Thank you. I'm gonna go. However, as far as our large open homelands contribute to the decline of shallow water levels, no one has yet checked. I don't think anyone thought of it. But it may also be that the relevant investigation has shown that the inability of the agricultural landscape to retain water has a significant effect on the growing drought of neighbouring forests. Which would be another argument against our extensive uninterrupted areas, which unfortunately satisfy industrial farmers, but also contribute to drying out our forests. The forest with the adjacent field, of course, is made up of connected vessels. The symbolic day is in this case the mother rock, in which in most cases an impervious layer of crystalline slate and granite form the ground of both the relevant field and the neighbouring forest. If rainwater can't soak into surface fields, it subsidizes partly the sources of groundwater under the forest field, and the fields actually drain the forest fields. It has its geological logic in a situation where rainwater held in the woods cannot soak deeper through the impenetrable layers and thus expands to the width.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u31	Once again, I will ask the House for peace, including your party colleagues. But really this time, left to right, there's noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u32	This leads him from the edge of the forest below the field. But there it will not hold and evaporate, and the forest has a lower water source from shallow water. So when we talk about the fact that drought is the main cause of the deteriorating state of our forests, we also need to ask how our farming is involved in the drought. Without changing our agricultural policy first and subsequently our forestry policy, especially in the conditions of management and grant schemes - here, of course, I firmly believe that ceilinging would be very helpful, although existing political representation is doing everything it can not be done - we can expect crust sludge and expansion of other forest pests in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Vrecionová. I now have Mr Stanislav Berkovec's factual comment and a colleague of Martinů will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to thank my esteemed colleague, Mrs Vrecionová, for her extensive staff, and allow a brief factual comment based on my personal experience as a journalist who has been driving to Šumava since the 1970s and who was filming round tables, publicist shows and reports about a golden beetle, as the family crust was said in Šumava at that time. Because for many, or for some, it was a fairy tale deal that flowed. The culprit is not Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, but Minister of the Environment Martin Bursík from the then government of Prime Minister Topolánek. That's what every reasonable woodsman in Sumava will tell you. Minister Brabec is just putting out the fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Martinů, Mrs Balcarová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u36	Nice evening, ladies and gentlemen, nice colleagues. I'll be very quick, I don't like long speeches. However, I would like very much to draw my attention to the Czech Republic's biggest current problem, and that makes it dry. I don't think the Czech Republic has a bigger problem than drought at this point. And I also think that each of you had already noticed how the Czech landscape dried up. Small streams are long dry, 15 to 20 percent of the water flows in large streams, valley tanks fit, Vranov did not leak for the first time after 84 years after spring. The Virgo tank is 14 metres below the ground and a daily drop of eight centimeters of water. I think the rate of drying out the Czech Republic is unprecedented. I know what I'm talking about because I'm not just speaking for a citizen, but even for a lifelong sports fisherman, and I just know how much the landscape has changed. Where there used to be wells where there used to be swamps where there used to be wet soil, there's dust today, there's dust fields. And the water loss is completely fatal. Let us ask ourselves why this is so. I think the answer is very simple. Over the past 80 years, we have drained about 1.5 million hectares of originally wet land. We destroyed tens of thousands of originally meandering streams by regulating them, and we made them a deep trough that drains the valleys and actually increases the drought. We've used agricultural technology, organic matter is today due to erosion in ponds and tanks. [[18.00 hours]] As Mayor of the Police I was, it was about five years ago, at a water conference and there was a very well-founded lifelong expert. That's where he put the thesis that we've raised the fumes in the last decade by up to 150 percent of the original values. And I've been thinking about it almost every day ever since. I think that man was right about God, that man really knew what he was talking about. And if that's true, every year we lose billions of cc's of water from the landscape that rains in the form of fumes in another part of the world. Just airflow takes them to the other end of the world. And it's still raining the same way here, but we've diametrically enlarged the fumes. I think there's a big truth to this. And the question is, what can we do about it? We're actually losing billions of ccs of water every year with this phenomenon, and the landscape is dryer and dryer in a year, which we see all around us today. If we look at the Ministry of Agriculture report for 2016, it is said that it was normally a standard water year, when it rained 50 billion cc's of water and an incredible 40 billion, that is 80 percent of water, it went up by steam, and only 10 billion cc's flowed. I read the report very carefully, and I was trying to capture some indication of how much water we put into the ground to restore the groundwater. I couldn't find a crib in there. So I repeat. 2016 - out of 50 billion ccs of water, which is standard water flow. In 2015, the haircuts amounted to 40 billion, some 60 billion years ago. So I repeat, in 2016, out of 50 billion cc's, 40 billion went into the air and only 10 billion cc's flowed outside the Czech Republic. In this matter, I have addressed the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Milek, and the Ministry of the Environment on fumes, how they feel about this. The Department of Agriculture has given me the truth that the fumes really are a huge problem. However, the Ministry of the Environment is debating this and does not want to give me for the truth in this matter. And now for the woods. I think there's been a lot of truth in the woods today. I think this thing is very simple. The woods just dried up. I have asked you a question for several times, and I am asking you today how it is possible that for generations we have been taught that the forests are holding water, and today we see a fatal disaster, when the forests are completely dry, they have no water for themselves, and they simply dry, including the crust. I've read maybe hundreds of expert articles over the last few years, and I have to say that these articles, these variables, these authorities are very different, and those opinions are very contradictory. In Polička, where I live, I have a very handy gentleman who owns a saw. And I've known for about ten years because he's told me that since the end of World War II, the cubicle of organic matter in our woods has risen by 100 and today by up to 150 percent. Today, according to the latest survey, it is believed that there are up to a billion cc's of organic matter in the Czech woods and even outside the Czech forest, and during the war it was less than 400. That means it's a 250 percent increase. All of this, of course, requires water. It's all just drinking water. To do that, let's take intensive agriculture. Today we're gonna grow 20, 40 meters of production. We're gonna grow a hundred yards today. We've got everything worked out. And the productions are huge. This means that the logical conclusion is very simple. I think that at the current level of our production, we just don't have water and we don't have water, because that water isn't getting that much. For a very interesting research I found 50 years old research, when in five places in Europe - in two places in Germany, Slovakia and twice in the Czech Republic - so-called research was carried out. the balance of spruce crops in order to determine how many spruce crops 80 years old they take per year of water. I was completely shocked. Here, the results differ only slightly about five percent. And it's based on the fact that the spruce crop takes 500 to 600 mm of water in a year. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a year-round collision in many places. A year-round collision below 700 metres, under 600 metres, the collisions are around 600 mm. This means that spruce crops actually take almost all the water that rains. The other day, we dated the agricultural committee at Ruzyna's scientific workplace in Prague. And I reached out to this scientist, who I liked, with the question that I'm confused in my head and that I don't understand it when they've been teaching us all our lives that the woods are holding water, and today we see the disaster. [[blast of laughter in YES benches]] And he nodded that he was telling me the truth. And he was going to ask me if I know how many percent of the total rainfall per year, how much water doesn't fall through the treetops. And he was very fast. I couldn't even think about it. And he tells me 40 to 50 percent. 40 to 50 percent just don't fall through the treetops. This means that if we look at 50 billion cc's of water in the average year, we look at the dimension of the forest vegetation, and we all know that it rains more in the mountains, so we can basically say roughly that half of the water in the Czech Republic will attack the forest vegetation and maybe half of it will not fall to the ground. And the same thing happens in the fields. In intensive production, where we have simply an intensive production of 100 meters of wheat, corn, and other crops, we have to ask how much water will fall to the ground so that the water can subsidize springs, springs, supply of drinking water and drains. I come from Pardubice Region, Polička, every moment as mayor I deal with the Moravia basin. I see the tragedy in the Faith. Water falls on Faith eight centimeters a day. And at the same time it's full of sisnics. It's literally a cesspool. This is a strategic tank for Brno. When the underground water runs out on Svitavsko, it should take Brno, 500,000 people, water. And I'm asking if that's even possible. The problem is just alarming. We had this meeting the other day. And I don't know if I remember those numbers. It's a lovely day to call, to hold, to hold the water. But I'm asking, we have nothing left to hold on to. The streams are dry, there's nothing flowing in the streams, the tanks fit. And the technical director, Mr Tůma, announced there, among other things, that the Moravia basin was commonly abandoned, a billion cc's fled outside our territory to the Danube. And in recent years, it's only 100 million. Here you just see, here it all just seems to fit into itself, what an alarming water drop is. So I don't want to stall anymore. I don't like long speeches. I simply ask that we do not make this unnecessary policy, because I say for myself that we are going to a time when there will be no greater problem in the Czech Republic than just enough water, not just for households, for agriculture, for forests, but also for industry. So I'd really like to pay our utmost attention to this. And thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u37	Thank you, Mr Martin. Now, Mrs Balcarová, duly signed up for the debate. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we are discussing the state of the Czech forests today, and I firmly hope that this will make sense and change the situation for the future. Pirates will support a change that will lead to sustainable forest management from a long-term perspective. In practice, this means limiting the holocaust, changing the species and age composition and reducing spruce monocultures, reducing the amount of cloven-hoofed game and other changes. Such forests will then better resist climate change and natural disasters. They then function as a buffer pillow in the torrential rains, holding water, and being a source of moisture during the dry season. Healthy forests are more productive. And if the current situation doesn't change, it will also be negatively reflected in the production of wood. I would like to give an example here, which is quite up-to-date and which points out how poorly forestry legislation is set. About a week ago, we saw in the media that the Archbishop's forests are cutting down more than a hundred-year-old beech trees in the Jeseníky area, in addition in the protected area and in the place under the European protection of Natura 2000. This example shows how bad forestry legislation is. The Archbishop's forests are managed according to an approved forest economic plan, and there is a completely absurd situation where 100-year-old beech beeches are cut down in a place where barking calamity takes place and where the primary interest should be the concentration of all the capacities to remove barking from the affected trees. Therefore, the pirát call for a dialogue on the amendment of forestry legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u39	Thank you, Mrs Balcarová. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u40	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. A lot of different views have already been made here today on the problem of crust sludge. I was about to make a much longer speech, but I am not an expert in forestry, so after much has been said about the causes of the crusty calamity, there have also been some possible debts from the past mentioned here, so I will just focus on some things that may have already been said marginally, but it may be good to mention them. I think we agree that the accelerated and comprehensive solution of the barking calamity and the adoption of both legislative and non-legislative measures are a priority task on which all departments important to this area need to work together. This means it is not only a matter of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Environment, but it is also a matter for which the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and some other departments need to cooperate. We should certainly do everything we can to stop the current very adverse developments in the problem of crust sludge and to work quickly to rebuild forest areas with emphasis on changing the species structure of forest crops, but also on a number of other measures. I would very much like to highlight the contribution of my colleague Martin here, because the issue of drought is very closely related to the problem of crust sludge. In addition to these priority tasks, however, I would like to draw attention to one more, perhaps not so much accentuated problem of crust sludge and its effects, and that is the situation of small and medium-sized forest-growing owners, it has also been partly mentioned here, as well as small and medium-sized wood mass processors. Here we must remember the situation in which the owners of the affected vegetation find themselves. At this point, many of them are hardly looking for processing capacity to extract and clean wood. They have huge problems with timber sales and sales revenues are falling significantly. Then the owners find themselves in a very difficult situation, when they are facing the costs of foresting and other care for the restored vegetation. Small owners can expect problems in foresting work, not only for financial, but also capacity reasons. The problem is even deeper for middle-sized owners, who are often also pro-workers. These owners must cover fixed costs, in particular the personnel costs of their employees, and they are significantly losing their yield by mining barkwood. Many of these owners or processors are often municipalities or cities or established by them. They are experiencing financial difficulties and are in danger of a crisis situation, which may result in a slowdown in foresting work, but also in redundancies, which may also be a major social problem in some regions. You might say it's not a problem in the conjunctivitis period, but we can ask how long the conjunctivitis will last. To all the necessary measures that have been mentioned here today, I would ask the government to quickly prepare comprehensive support for small and medium-sized forest owners. Here we see as an effective possibility of tax relief from the sale of wood matter, subsidies for the restoration and care of forest crops, consulting activities and, last but not least, the possibility of interest-free loans to particularly medium-sized entities. Similarly, the crisis situation may soon occur with wood processors, including final processors, i.e. furniture companies. Many of them need high-quality wood materials for their production, while they cannot use barkworms. These companies are therefore very difficult to find quality wood at the present time, and if they do, at a significantly higher price than usual. All of this then puts these companies in economic trouble and threatens them no longer to be competitive in certain situations. The big problem that we face in dealing with the barking calamity is the transport infrastructure. A long time ago, the possibility of purchasing trucks for the transport of wood by ČD Cargo was discussed. However, the solution extends as well as the adjustment of timetables for railway lines. Therefore, in addition to the appeal to address the problems of small and medium-sized owners and wood processors, I would like to ask the Government for consistent inter-ministerial cooperation, as I have already mentioned, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Transport, for the solution of bark sludge. This is the preparation of a crisis plan for the treatment of bark sludge and the accelerated preparation of legislative and non-legal measures, including long-term, professionally-founded changes in forest management. Finally, he won't let me ask the ministers a few specific questions. Minister Toman, I would like to appreciate some of the measures that you have or are preparing, as you have mentioned today. I also appreciate the mentioned grant title for the rendering of forest crops. However, I believe that the allocation that you have prepared for 2019 in the amount of 1 150 000 000 is undervalued due to the size of the bark sludge and the number of affected forest owners, particularly small and medium-sized,. Considering that the forests of the Czech Republic have taken almost 30 billion to the founder's fund over the last five years. Kroner, then the allocation to the rendering work seems insufficient. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, whether you are considering a possible increase in this grant title, virtually. allocation to this grant title. Minister Took, I would like to ask you how the Ministry is prepared to assist you in improving the transport of barkwood. How far is the project to buy the necessary trucks for the transport of wood by ČD Cargo and whether the timetables for the railway are already ready to cover the needs for the transport of calamity wood. I also want to ask you how you work with the regions and municipalities on problems with increased road traffic and their damage. Dear members of the government, how will the government support first-time workers who are worried about their future due to the reasons already mentioned, especially significantly lower yields from barkwood extraction, increased costs of foresting and other forest care? Minister Nováková, I would like to ask you how the Ministry of Industry and Trade will support the furniture and other wood-processing industry, which is facing a shortage and increasing price of non-circular quality wood in a situation where some furniture or other wood-processing companies face existential difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and for your answers to my questions in advance. At the same time, I believe that the government will take the solution to the crusty calamity and its consequences as one of its fundamental and not only short-term but long-term priorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u41	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Allow me to quote an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Jiří Mašek from 10 to 13. 7. for family reasons. Now, Mr Jan Čižinský, the last member of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u42	Thank you for the floor. I have here the resolution of the subcommittee on conservation of nature and landscape. We would like to reshape this resolution in the House resolution. I'll read it here and then give it to the rapporteur. "The Sub-Committee on the Conservation of Nature and Landscapes calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to address the causes of the current state of the forests and bark sludges, namely the preparation of an amendment to the Act on Forests and Implementation Decrees, which will ensure species and age-rich forests; the preparation of an amendment to the Act on Hunting and Implementing Decrees, which will ensure the reduction of damage to planting and rejuvenation of forests; preparation of the proposal for a new law on the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic; the introduction of internationally recognised FSC certification on a substantial part of the assets in the administration of state enterprises Forests of the Czech Republic and Military Forests and Farms; the presentation of a crisis plan for the solution of bark sludge by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament on 14 September 2018. And calls on the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to adopt a resolution calling on the Government of the Czech Republic within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this resolution of the subcommittee." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u43	Thank you, Mr Čižinský. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking who's still applying for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We have a detailed debate ahead of us. I will therefore ask the speakers who have tabled motions for resolutions to sign up individually. Mr Pavel Kováčik, Mr Zahradník, Mr. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u44	Thank you for the floor. Only in the context of a detailed debate do I refer to the motion for a resolution, which I tabled here in the general debate and submitted to the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u45	Thank you. Mr. Zahradník now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u46	Mr Vice-President, I am signing up for two proposals. Firstly, on my motion for a resolution, which I tabled here in the general debate, and then on the amendment to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holomčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u47	Okay, thank you. Mr Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the motion for a resolution, which President Tomio Okamura said in his speech here today in the general debate, stating that I would only modify one word so that the resolution would be more acceptable to certain Members' clubs. So I'll take the liberty of reading it: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to take urgent measures to limit the bark calamity. At the same time, the government needs to prepare legislative and conceptual steps in order to make fundamental changes in forest management worse the conditions for the spread of bark. The responsibility for the current situation lies with the previous government and, above all, with the previous management of the Department of Agriculture."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u49	Thank you. Now, Mr Holomčík, then Mrs Pekarová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to sign up for my motion for a resolution, which I tabled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u51	Okay. Mrs Pekarová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u52	Thank you for the floor. I also want to sign up for the motion for a resolution, which I have already tabled in the general debate, but I would still like a slight change there, so I will read the whole proposal again. The change lies only in what I poke here: The Chamber of Deputies I takes note of the Information of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment on bark sludge in the Czech Republic and II. instructs the Minister of Agriculture to submit information on the emergence of outbreaks and the subsequent spread of bark sludge - and here is the change that I do not mention the originally mentioned year 2012, because after the discussions that we had with some colleagues here, and with the Minister it is discussed this way, so this would be more acceptable - including information on the measures taken against the spread of bark sludge, information on the way the state policy of forest management is applied, the shortcomings of this policy and the consequences of these shortcomings and information on the forthcoming solutions to the current situation, management in the woods, especially taking into account the state enterprise Lesa ČR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u53	Thank you. Mr Čižinský, now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u54	Thank you. I refer to the proposal adopted by the subcommittee on nature and landscape protection, which I just read. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u55	Thank you. I'm asking for final words. The Minister of Agriculture claims the final word. Will the Minister of the Environment be interested? He won't be interested. Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u56	Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to thank the proposals that have fallen here. Thank you for the correct discussion. I cannot answer all of today's questions, but I have agreed with some of the petitioners, and I promise I will answer all of the questions. I can tell you I'm ready to talk. I am glad that the debate has moved on to what we will do and how we will help our forests to return to their original state. I can assure you it's a long-distance run. It's not during the year, but I think the forest renewal is at least ten to fifteen years old. I want this place to be heard so someone doesn't think we're gonna make it in six months or another year. I want to thank my colleague Holomčík for his correct proposals. We'll work together. And I want to assure only those who accused me of pushing Rainbow here, etc. that those who criticized this place are unaware that 60 to 70 percent of the proposals are consistent with the Rainbow Movement. I just want to draw attention to that - a species composition of forests, etc. etc., we agree on that. And I'll be very happy if we all get involved in that platform through the experts who will be there. Academia, individual organizations, Forests of the Czech Republic, UHÚL, environment, etc. will be represented there. So thank you again for the correct debate and I look forward to further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u57	Thank you. There is no other final word, so I will give the rapporteur's word. The rapporteur is Mr Jan zahradník. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u58	vážený President, in the general debate, there were 13 Members who tabled six motions for a resolution and one amendment was tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u59	We will therefore vote on the basis of the proposals, but first we will vote on the amendment. Does anyone else have a proposal for a procedure? It's not like that. Just in case, I'm going to vote on the procedure in the vote number 125, which I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 125, 183 in favour of 173, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore proceed as the rapporteur has said. So, first of all, the amendment of the rapporteur, the Zahradník, to the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u60	I'm supposed to bring him in. It is a proposal that says that the word "in Bohemia" and comma should be inserted at the point of Roman I Arabic 1 after the words "on the property of the state." Mr. Holomčík's proposal, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u61	All right. It is with Mr Holomčík's proposal. We will decide in the 126 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 126, 183 for 72, compared to 42. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the proposal as a whole without any change. Isn't that right? It is. Please, this is Mr Holomčík's proposal without the amendment proposed but not approved. We will decide in the vote 127. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 127, from 183 present for 46, compared to 46. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u62	The next proposal is the proposal of Mr Zahradník, which is mine. And here, Mr President, I would like to ask if we could vote on individual points 1, 2, 3, 4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u63	Okay, by the points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u64	Point 1 - calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare and implement the action plan without delay, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u65	So we're going to decide this in the 128 vote that I started. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 128, 183 for 62 against 1. The motion was not accepted. Second draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u66	The second proposal - expresses the conviction that the relevant ministries should cooperate with forest experts on the proposals for solutions with a priority objective, etc., as I said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u67	Yes, we do. Voting 129, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 129, of the 183 present for 77, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u68	Another proposal - calls for a prudent approach to proposals submitted by environmental activists, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u69	Yes. Who's in? Voting 130. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 130, from 184 present for 23, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u70	Another proposal - calls on the Government to prepare legislative changes in the field of public procurement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u71	We will decide in the vote order number 131, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 131 of 184 present for 50, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u72	The other proposal is Mr Okamura's proposal, which Mr Fiala has tabled here with a change - instead of 'abated' they have 'wronged'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u73	Does anyone want to vote on a change in the proposal? It's not like that. We will therefore vote in the vote serial number 132 on the Okamura proposal, as read by Mr Fiala. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 132 out of 184 present for 55, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u74	Next - Mrs Pekarová's proposal to Adamová, which has been tabled here with a change since 2012 - omitted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u75	Okay, I thought it wasn't over at 6:30, 18.31 isn't, but the chairman of the ODS Club has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u76	I didn't suggest it or invent it, but at 6:30 he's supposed to start another point and we have to follow the approved program. Mr Vice-President, we cannot continue the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u77	In that case, I'll interrupt point 102. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'll ask for an exchange in the management of the meeting, and Vice-President Pikal has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u78	Since the point was interrupted before I was called to the floor, I do not know if it is still possible, but I would like to make an extreme suggestion that we would extend the previous point by five minutes, and that is why the vote was made. Now I don't know if the previous point is closed. [[Restlessness in the room.]] I guess I'm out of luck.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u79	You have the right to speak, Mr Vice-President. But if you were asking a question, I didn't understand you. Everyone else, please, take it easy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u80	I'm asking if I can still propose that we postpone the Vice-President's election by five minutes so that we can finish the vote, which is to make an extraordinary adjustment to the show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u81	The President of the Zbyněk Stanjura Parliamentary Club shall have priority rights. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall and very poor audibility!]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u82	I would have assumed, Mr Vice-President, through another Vice-President, that anyone else should know the Rules of Procedure other than those who manage our meetings. [[Applause in the left and center of the hall.]] Your proposal is not voteable at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u83	President Bělobrádek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u84	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I just want to remind you that the Rules of Procedure are the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-10-ps2017-016-05-002-102.u85	Anyone else checking in with priority rights? If not, then we're going to the point that we're assigned to 18.30. It's a point.
