ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u1	168. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. At the same time, I note that Mr Ferjenčík votes with replacement card number 8. At the same time, I note that I have received a notification from Mr Kobza that he is withdrawing the discussion of a written interpelation to the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, the House Press 265, and is asking for its expulsion from the programme of the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So, in the order of the third reply to the written interpelation, we will not deal with this request. On the agenda of the 19th meeting, a total of five responses were submitted to written interviews with which Members were not satisfied and therefore asked for inclusion. We will deal with four of them, as I have already said. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which is that, unless the Interpelling Member is present at the House meeting, there is no debate on his response to the interpelation, and the House will not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. So, I mean, we're prepared enough to be able to discuss the answer to the first written question. Minister of Transport Dan Ťok responded to the interpellation of Zdeněk Stanjura on electrification of regional railway lines, changes in traction system and VRT in the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 238. At this point, I am launching a debate which, of course, President Stanjura is reporting to. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u2	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President Fiala said that these are the answers to the interpelations that Members are not satisfied with. So I am mostly satisfied, only minorityly dissatisfied, and I think that during the debate we are able to complete the rest here with the Minister or possibly clarify it. The interpelation was really about three areas, but they are all about rail transport. It was like high-speed lines or fast connections. When I return 12 months ago, I remember the billboards and the campaign of all parties in the Chamber of Deputies, even those who did not get here, so fast connections and high-speed lines were one of the topics that were very often repeated. The Prime Minister dreams of them when he's asleep? I mean, he doesn't sleep so I don't get it wrong. Another important thing is electrification of regional railway lines and then change of traction system. It may seem too technical to you, but the railroad is environmentally friendly and we must keep a long-term eye on it. But in my response to the answer, I will not quote questions and answers, that's what you all have in this House press 238, went after those individual points and had possibly additional questions to the Minister or critical comment. I'm sure I can't avoid that. [[9.10 hours]] First, I asked about the issue of the interdepartmental management work team of the rapid link program. I mean, it's a good thing a team like that works. The decision of the government of the Czech Republic was established in May 2017, which is if I count it well for almost a year and a half. It'll be a year and a half in November. I asked for compositions, minutes of meetings, etc. I got the current composition, and to my surprise, I learned that I'm a member of this team. I don't know how it happened, I don't really know about it, but I'm happy about it, but next time, I'd like to be a part of it. But I say it pleases me. However, I want to say, and that's the critical thing that the team has met twice. I asked for the minutes of all the meetings, I had no idea how many there were. The answer came to me on June 28th, the day before the second meeting of the committee. I asked to receive the minutes on a regular basis, but I did not receive the minutes from the second meeting, which was to be held on 29 June, so I will only respond to the first meeting in November. If you read it, you'll find it was such a friendly debate, we had a foreign expert there, whose main message was that there had to be a political agreement before it started building. I fully agree with that. Not one term, no responsibility, no homework. We're almost a year after the election, and we haven't moved anywhere except that we're all talking about it - and now I'm pointing out that word to everyone - that we want these tracks and that we're gonna do it, somebody has the courage to say when they might come out. I would then ask the Minister - if there was anything important in June, I do not know - so maybe just a really short piece of information, or why the committee is meeting so little. It was set up in May 2017, then met in October 2017 and then in June 2018. In October, among other things, half of the speakers said that a timetable for the procedure needed to be prepared. I don't know if there was any submitted or approved in June, but time is running out. And when we sometimes complain about how long it takes to prepare investment events in the Czech Republic, it is only worth it in this case. So far, no one's putting any obstacles to this, because there's nothing on the table except ideas and dreams. And I think it is - at least the contributions from the first negotiations are essential, we have to decide and agree whether fast connections will be at airports when I talk about Prague, Brno and Ostrava, or if they will be outside the airport. We need to study it so it's not just that it feels like it's better whether it's at the airport or not. One of these members says that the high-speed line to Václav Havel Airport in Ruzyn should lead from Prague Central Station. Well, it's possible, but I need to know what speed he's gonna get before he pulls back and stops. There was a question about Heathrow. It should be said that, for example, in the UK - because the expert was from Great Britain, who has experience with the implementation and construction of high-speed lines, he correctly said that there are not many domestic passengers there, and Heathrow has connections to the subway and not to the high-speed line. Then it's a doubling. These are questions we should answer. Of course, we from the Moravian-Silesian Region are interested in cooperation with Poland, because we think that the high-speed route northward is crucial to our region, the whole agglomeration of Ostrava and Katowice has seven million inhabitants. There are potentially many passengers. Then I would ask, Minister, that I receive the minutes additionally, that's enough for me. There is no point except that there would be something substantial if you introduced us to this, and rather what is the idea of how often this committee will sit. I would argue that as soon as possible some basic thesis should come so that we can start looking for a political agreement. I would then ask, if possible, even outside the microphone, whether colleagues from the House, who are also newly members of the commission, know about it or not, because there was a change, of course it was a reaction after the elections, some colleagues were no longer elected, and logically from that committee, I am not saying that they were dismissed, but will be replaced by Members who are sitting in this parliamentary term. I would say that this is all, just asking for the minutes and, if necessary, the answer to how often he will sit down, and I would ask that a schedule be proposed as soon as possible, because, if possible, there should be political agreement before real and meaningful studies are actually made. It's quite smiling when you read the October entry that talks about the preparation of the 416 amendment, but that's luckily over, but it doesn't really apply to the high-speed line. It says so, but the app in this case is the music of the far future. Building proceedings are much more important. And what I would like to point out, and I think it is important, and we citizens will support this if we decide to build high-speed lines to create a special law, because it is not possible to build a high-speed line according to the construction law, or according to 416. Let us remember that we are talking about hundreds of kilometers of new corridors, new lines, that is, we are talking about thousands and tens of thousands of owners, and if we were to do this in the standard slow way that is still valid in the Czech Republic, we would never build it. As for the second issue, the question of changing the traction system in the Czech Republic, I would just ask the Minister if I could then additionally get the whole study, just the managerial summary, rather for a more detailed study of my fellow experts, with whom I cooperate, so that they can deal with it. I'd like to say that this thing looks very technical, but it's very important. It can bring increased costs to all carriers, both the Czech Railways and private carriers. It is very important to know what the plan will be, because if in some competitions that I believe will take place on carriers and there will be a logical condition for new trains, so also the carriers need to know within 10-15 years whether they will ride the electrified track or not and when, because of course, this has to do with it. In response, you will learn that the tender for the feasibility study for Ostrava and Přerovsko is only running. In preparation there is a tender for the area Ústecko and Mělnicko. I would then ask, for example, when the Ministry of Transport prepares the tender, that there are other areas, Nymburk, Královéhradecko, Pardubicko and then Prague and Central Bohemia. This should solve the main lines of the Czech Republic. The answer from the Ministry of Transport and the Minister, which says what the traction power stations will be, says they're supposed to be backed up. I understand that, but I think it would take even more detailed technical information on, for example, the Transport Sub-Committee. This probably does not belong in the Chamber of Deputies plenary, which technical solution will be chosen, that once again it will have an impact on what trains can ride in the future in the Czech Republic. There is no information, I would say rather unintentionally, I do not accuse anyone of connecting these lines to the neighbors again, if we electrify it so that the locomotive or the whole railroad set does not have to change. This, of course, lacks a more detailed timetable, however, in the maps that are part of the answer, the basic information that all Members who are interested in this have been given and can continue to work with it. The last area of response to interpelation is the electrification of regional railway lines. There I asked only about my district, the Moravian-Silesian region, because it is of course important for us who represent this region here. This is where we got the answer, what's actually in preparation. I will appeal to continue the preparation of the implementation of the Opava - Olomouc line through Krnov, because the line is extremely slow, and if it is more efficient, I believe that the number of passengers will increase significantly there, because we have a good experience when the Opava East - Ostrava Svinov line was electrified, and the new Elefants are driving there, so I am absolutely sure that the number of passengers has increased significantly and many Opavan prefer fast rail connections than the car route, although there is a good transport connection in addition to the Extended Rudné. [[9.20 hours]] The long-term problem, which is not part of the interpelation, but on regional lines I remembered it, I would ask the Minister - at this point he is implementing, from his impulse there are personnel changes in the Czech Railways, so that the Czech Railways will as far as possible flexibly join the negotiations with the authorities that are interested in building a detention car park at railway stations. Very often the land on which the parking lot could be located is owned by the Czech Railways, and for example in Opava we started the negotiations on the transfer of property some time in 2007 or 2008 and it is not finished. The Czech Railways do not like to dispose of the property even though they are not actively using it. I think if we build a parking lot at larger railway stations, the attractiveness of rail transport will increase again. Rather, such a general instruction that both the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of České dráhy should think about it and management lead them to agree, where there are meaningful projects, with regional or municipal authorities, and either together or by not having to sell them - even if they allow construction. There is no condition that the city must own it, but it is a condition for obtaining a building permit to have consent. If there's good faith, there's good faith. I will mention again Opava, when we succeeded in building an underpass under our railway station, when part of the Czech Railways paid when it was a logical thing to the lines, to the platforms, and the second part was the town because it logically connected two parts of the city. It was a joint investment, I can't remember whether it was realized by České dráhy or the city, but that is exactly the thing where cooperation makes sense, and once again it can contribute to the higher attractiveness of passenger rail transport. I asked if even on these issues, which are technical, whether the Ministry of Transport is ready to cooperate actively with the Chamber of Deputies and whether they are prepared to include their experts in the working teams if they are interested. This has really been avoided by the Ministry in some way, but I think if it makes sense, then such representatives, if they feel like they're bringing something in, that we're able to make a deal. At this point, I would like to thank you for your answer. I think it is a good thing that we have this in the Houses of the Press 238, that it can serve to get back to this in a year, two, three, and see how the railway line modernization and the preparation of fast connections progress. I am already aware that whether the Minister gives me information now or subsequently, I will not suggest that we disagree, because I rather want to draw your attention to the issue. The questions he has asked are not essential enough to require the Ministry of Transport and the Minister to draw up a new response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u3	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I will introduce you to further apologies. Minister Toman apologizes for the meeting of the House on 13 and 14 September for working reasons, Mr Kaňkovský from 9.00 to 11.00 today, and Mr Julius Špičák apologizes for today's meeting from 9.00 to 10.00 for working reasons. At the same time, I note that Mr Vít Rakušan has cancelled his original apology and is present. We have an open debate. Anyone reporting for the debate? Yes, Minister Tok. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank President Stanjur, through Mr President, for appreciating the answer more or less. I would like to add some things and, of course, to begin with, I will say immediately that the Ministry of Transport is helpful in these matters and is certainly ready to debate and enrich the working group with more people. I'd just like to say the comments on the working group, yes, she's 29. Six, she's in session. I got a text message that the entry was sent by e-mail. He's probably lost somewhere, so I'm sure we can get him to you. I just want to say one thing - it is not that these things are not being worked on unless a working group of Members sits down, these things are particularly being worked on by the SŽDC in the special department. We also have an English expert who has been mentioned, part-time employed, and his work is very useful there. The problem is, or not a problem, it may not be an understanding of how the task force should continue, because there is waiting for some milestone to be made to wake up on that group. The design work on their preparation is quite long, so it may seem that the group is not meeting. On the other hand, I perceived what was said here that it was necessary to have at least some sort of basal political consensus on what kind of assignment the feasibility study could put into. I admit that there are different opinions about these things, I perceive them all, there are opinions that high-speed tracks below 350 km is not a high-speed track, that it has to be faster. On the other hand, I was in Austria yesterday, where he runs 200, 250 max, and there is full satisfaction. Of course, this also brings about problems. The Minister of Transport told me yesterday, because he is a passionate airman, that high-speed or speed connection from Vienna to Linz basically stopped the line airport, because everyone rides by train and nobody, or very few people use the air connection, especially at the Vienna hub airport. Those are the things that I think we need to discuss. I know that we talked about what high-speed connections can bring in employment, because this will increase labour mobility. On the other hand, I think we need to be very concerned about this issue. I would just like to say that we are really far from planning and preparing the route between Berlin and Dresden, Ústí nad Labem to Prague. This arm is at the highest stage of preparation or at an advanced stage of preparation. The tunnel is already agreed, it will be a long investment, it will be made from the German side of Deutsche Bahn Netz according to German standards, but that is information that has either fallen or I will specify it. As for Ostrava, connection to high-speed lines, here's a new piece of information. There is a V4 initiative that was somehow motivated by Prime Minister Orbán, about connecting the high-speed line within V4 Budapest and Warsaw. The route should lead in the trail of Budapest, Bratislava, Břeclav, Brno, Ostrava and then through Katovice up to Warsaw. Target status, if I remember correctly, now I haven't found it, should be under five hours. It connects to the two of our shoulders over Břeclav, Brno, Ostrava. That would fit our concept of high-speed lines, and that's what it's supposed to be. Not only to Germany but also to Poland through the Ostrava region. We still have a big debate there, a connection to Wroclaw, whether it should be through Liberec or through Hradec Králové. And one more comment. I agree that it would be very good to put together a law on high-speed lines and to specify some things that could be of great help overall, and I agree with that. As far as the unification of traction is concerned, this is the initiative we came up with at the Ministry. The long-term plan is that today, or today, our carriers, or the carriers that drive in the Czech Republic, basically have a more complex situation because they must have very significantly or quite complicated locomotive equipment to handle three or four systems. Here should come simplification in the future, so that the system is one and maybe unlike the others. Because this investment is going to be quite demanding, there is an estimated sum - the estimates said that it could cost a total of between 80 billion and 100 billion. The question is, we have to figure out if there's going to be any savings and benefits, so the study is going on. But I'm sure it's not in the phase that we're able to say some timetable and concrete steps, given that we don't make a shoe and invest in something that then doesn't have the final result, so it could be quite complicated there. In any case, we will also provide you with the overall study so that you can look at it, and it will be available to any of the Members. [[9.30 hours]] As far as regional lines are concerned, where it makes economic sense, we will certainly expect that we will also want to expand electrification, because this will, of course, help transport services especially around large agglomerations and where economically makes sense. On the other hand, I would like to point out that SŽDC will have to take further steps, i.e. on lines where public transport is not ordered in the long term and no one is driving, so we should - we call it calming down. In other words, it would take off the top and use it for other purposes, such as bike paths, with the possibility to deliver the track there afterwards. But it's always a big deal, and there's always someone who wants that kind of thing in there. As for the land around the railway station in general, I have instructed SŽDC that I want to see some strategy from them. We are in such a paradoxical situation today, in which, in the context of modernization of SŽDC lines, first, improves line control, so there is no need for service to be on each station, but in addition, it will reconstruct the stations. That means we'll reconstruct the station, and then it's empty. And that doesn't make much sense. I'd like us to see how they do it abroad. And I agree that we should also get rid of those large storage spaces, buildings that are ugly, that look bad around those stations. So in the future, I said I really wanted to see that where the track goes, SŽDC has to evaluate whether there's a need for service, whether there's a railway station building that's traditionally there, or another railway station building, if there's any reasonable use. If it doesn't have a reasonable use and if it's not a monument, then tear it all down, do a simple, well-equipped peron with an information system, with some passenger roof, as it is everywhere in Europe, and that we would make our work easier. This will also create space for the Park and Ride parking lot. You are right that I know from the past, and from trips to the regions, when I was talking to the mayor, a lot of cases where negotiations with SŽDC or České dráhy are really long. There is one thing that, of course, complicates the whole thing primarily. That is, according to the Railway Act or the SŽDC, it is necessary for the disposal of property to be approved by the government, and even individually, that is, by name. Therefore, it is a material which must be passed with the resolution by an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, a ministerial commentary procedure. So the procedure is very complicated for small pieces. On the other hand, sometimes, and I must admit, even this principle does not justify, or does not justify, that some things last for years. There's got to be something to do with it. So I think we need to take some steps in both of these things so that we can be more efficient, but in any case today both SŽDC and České dráhy where it is relevant, because most of the land or a lot of these things have been moved to SŽDC to meet and provide - either to sell or rent land on Park and Ride, because that is what will help us together to make better use of the railroad. Well, that's all I remembered. I hope that I have responded to all things, and I am ready to take more people into that working group who would like to be involved in this political debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u5	Thank you. Mr Zahradník joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I also thank you for the opportunity given to me by President Stanjura by submitting this interview. I would like to address Minister Took with one such question as well as the subject. He mentioned Austria. He mentioned that he spoke to Austrian transport officials. Of course it is, in Austria you go from Vienna to Linz by the fast track about an hour and then you travel around three hours or so, from Linz to České Budějovice. I want to ask him whether and in what form he is preparing a fast railway connection to the south, i.e. from Prague through České Budějovice to Linz. I know the South Express is already going there, but it's still on the railroad, on the track, whose direction and route Gerstner Gerstner 180 years ago. It is therefore considered that such a high-speed line would also be planned south. I remind you that Austria is a very dynamically developing state, its Federal Republic of Upper Austria is one of the best and economic cooperation between the Czech Republic and Austria should, in my opinion, be significantly improved and it could bring great benefits for us. So, Minister, if you're planning a high-speed track, you're also heading south. And my second point is that there has been talk of electrification, electrified lines, and Mr Stanjura's interpellation towards this. I have information that this is often happening, and where it is also necessary for operators of those lines economically advantageous, so under electrified lines, under trolleys which are high costs built, there is therefore diesel, diesel sets, because at a given moment it is probably more advantageous for those operators, which are regions, within the basic transport service. In this respect, I will prepare either oral interpelation or possibly also, if within the two minutes, or how much one has, it does not fit, written, and I will ask you questions that will relate to precisely the effects of this unfortunate thing, where the huge investment is not 100% as it should be used. So I'd rather say that I'm going to talk about it at some of our next meetings. But the south direction is crucial to me, so I'd like to ask for a hint of an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u7	Thank you. The Minister is reporting for the debate. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u8	Thank you. So if I can respond, heading south, we're modernizing the corridor to České Budějovice today, starting with Linz, 160 km per hour. There's another building going on that should actually keep up with that speed. During yesterday's meeting with Minister Hofer - he told me that Austria excluded from its plan, or that it suspended their modernisation of the line on the Austrian side from Linz to České Budějovice due to funds that they did not have enough. I asked him, given our investments, that it would be very appropriate if they tried to find the money, and that they would have gotten the track there within 200 km. If we have 160 on our side and they have 160, I think the travel speed from Prague to Linz would be very interesting even at this speed. I mean, we're gonna put in the 300, the fast connections, and now there's absolutely no point. Of course, if the necessary situation turns up, we can look into it. Otherwise we talked - I was a little distracted right now, so I hope to respond correctly - about the track of Franz Joseph, which led there through Lower Austria... Excuse me? [[Mr Zahradník's comment from the place that it is something else, he spoke of Gerstner.]] So they're counting on it, so it's gonna be regional, they're not gonna make it work. However, we will certainly debate that we would like to electrify and modernise the line to Gmünd - either from Budějovice or from Veselí nad Lužnicí. [[9.40 hours]] As for the other thing, the use of electrification for regional lines, there is a slightly more complex question. First of all, we need to set a specific example. I don't know, but it may happen that if the electrification doesn't go all the way that the train is going, then the operator might come up with a better use of a diesel unit, or for some regional lines some light diesel units are definitely more advantageous than electrified. But if you have a specific case, we could take a look at it, take it apart. And I'm ready, or certainly our team at the Ministry of Transport or SŽDC is ready to find an answer and say what should be done to use primarily the greener part of the electric transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u9	Thank you. Mr Richter cancels his apology, is present from 9.10 in the Chamber. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? It's not like that. I'm done with the conversation. In his speech, President Stanjura indicated that he would not demand or propose any resolution by the Chamber of Deputies. I'm asking formally once more if that's the case. Yes, it is. So I'm going to end discussing this response to a written interview. We'll deal with the next answer. Ms Schillerová, Minister of Finance, responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation with regard to the evaluation of the public budgets of the Contracting Parties with regard to Title 3 of the Treaty. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 239. I am opening the debate in which President Stanjura first came forward, and I see that Minister Schillerová is registered after him. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u10	Thank you for the floor. It's gonna be a little bit of a rebuttal of our opinion confrontation with the secretary on the budget committee. I'm not gonna be as long as I am on the budget committee today. I'm gonna keep it for the second-reading fiscal compact. I want to thank you for that answer. I thanked her for her and the budget committee, but I want it on the tape. It's 100%. Why I expressed my disagreement is a simple answer to this question. Because I wanted the text of those questions and, in particular, the text of those answers to be available to all Members when we voted on the fiscal compact. Otherwise, the answer is professionally processed and brings answers to the questions I've asked. Only during the meeting on the Committee on Budgets did I ask a question which I did not apply in that written interview. I'm going to repeat it here, and I've already asked the secretary to give us the answer, if possible, at the moment when we're discussing the fiscalcompact at the plenary. Just to remind those who do not deal with this today and daily as members of the Committee on Budgets. The fiscalcompact, if I simplify it, has an introduction, a conclusion, and in the meantime the content - a financial institution, a debt brake and all that. At this point, the government is proposing to approve, it is not entirely accurate, but I believe that the Minister will not correct me, so just to simplify the introduction and conclusion that the signatories can reserve this to be done. We wouldn't even be the first countries to do it this way, because those who don't pay the euro, it's important to say they have that option. Those who pay the euro and have the euro in place must approve this Treaty or the Agreement as a whole. And there's the first legislative dispute, maybe a constitutional problem. In the last parliamentary term, the government has proposed that the treaty be approved by a constitutional majority. This is supposed to be a simple majority during this parliamentary term. I don't want to argue about it today, because it's really a matter of constitutional lawyers, and it's possible that someone will turn to the Constitutional Court not only in this, but also in some future take a clear view that everyone knows how to deal with such international agreements. The question that came to mind, however, during the discussion in the Committee on Budgets, which I have formulated there and which I really do not need to know the answer today, but if it were, of course, well. If by simple majority in both chambers we approve the introduction and conclusion of the contract and not the main thing, the body, the content, then any government - I note, any government - decides to approve the rest, what will be the procedure? Will this be approved again as a whole? Will it be a constitutional majority or a simple majority? This is about the interpretation dispute, or rather a legislative or legal dispute, whether this treaty transfers any powers from the Czech Republic to Brussels. Honestly, I must say that if this is ratified as the government suggests, then not at this point, because we do not translate any competence at the outset and conclusion. But we believe that if the rest were to be approved, that there is already a transfer of competences, because there are some competences for the European Commission towards the signatories to this Treaty. This is simply a legislative matter, or a legal matter, as would be done in the future if this treaty is ratified. Otherwise, I will use the main arguments only at the second reading, because I consider it unnecessary. However, I would like to draw your attention to the answer of those who claim to blame us for not ratifying it. That's how they run far worse than many of us. Not all of them. [[The minister stands in front of the speaker's desk and loudly says, "No doubt."]] No doubt, says Madam Secretary. I'm sure we agree on that. On the Committee on Budgets, I have appointed only those signatories who pay the euro and have GDP, respectively. public debt to GDP by 50 per cent higher than the commitment, at 90 per cent or more. There's seven of them, too. In response, you will find the way in which individual national parliaments approved or ratified this Treaty, which corrective action has been taken. And if you look at it really factually, rationally, without prejudice in either direction or in the other direction, you'll find that the corrective measures are basically not working. The only exception is Germany, which has repeatedly managed the surplus budget in recent years. Now I've seen the numbers for the first semester. This is not far enough to find out how the Němec do it, that they are doing well at all the huge costs with migrants and with a relatively generous social system and are able to manage the surplus budget in recent years and this year, unlike us. And that's the argument that we're going to put in the second reading to not ratify the contract at this point because it's pointless. We believe that if once the Czech political representation or the Czech public decides that the Czech Republic will join the euro, then the moment will be right for the ratification of the fiscal compact if it still applies at that time, because in the detailed debate on the budgetary committee, we also said that there was already some stability pact, which was before the fiscal compact, where there were similar objectives, similar mechanisms, no one did. So if I wanted to do a little bit of cartoon and sum up, it's years, then either the finance ministers or the prime ministers are going to go to Brussels or somewhere else, Lisbon, maybe, that's where it's going to be signed, a family photo is going to be taken, and that's the end of the story. They don't enforce duties anymore. I do not want to talk about the Treaty of Lisbon today, about how it must not be guaranteed by other states' debts. Look, when the Treaty of Lisbon was adopted, and what the reality is in 2018, 2017, 2016 and so on. So the object of my disagreement was actually for you all to have the 239 press at your disposal with the information that the Treasury has processed for us. I'm sure I won't suggest a disagreement. On the contrary, I wanted to thank you and thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u11	Thank you. Minister Schillerová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank President Stanjur for his appreciation. I appreciate it. We have actually processed the answer honestly, and we have made sure that all the questions he has asked and asked are answered there, and they are all at your disposal. So at this point, I think I feel that there is no need for me to react in more detail. I have two variants of my response prepared in detail if you were dissatisfied, which, of course, I didn't know at the moment, so I appreciate that you're not. And then I've got a little bit more brief. But basically, I'm not gonna stretch it out because you all have it at your disposal, there's definitely gonna be a debate between us at the second reading. [[9.50 hours]] Just so you know, the second reading is basically over, that's where he's gonna be approved. Once again, I appeal to one thing: I perceive what the President says in that regard that a number of countries are worse off. And I thank you, and the way I see it, we're in good economics, so I appreciate it. Now I've received an appreciation of the management from the opposition party's chairman, so I appreciate that very much. And I would just like to point out that when I go to ECOFIN, i.e. Councils of Ministers of the European Union, I was in Vienna on the weekend because Austria is currently chairing the European Union, so they are talking about our results and there are basically three of them. The planned deficit, they're interested, of course, because in the percentage conversion to GDP, so let me just say, that's 0.7 percent of GDP planned by the deficit for 2019. Then they are interested in the surplus of public finances, I repeat again, the third best in the European Union, then they are interested in debt, the fourth lowest in the European Union, and most importantly they are interested in the structural balance, i.e. adjusted from the influence of the economic cycle plus 1,1% of GDP, and will appreciate it there. They'll appreciate it there. And I really treat our results with respect. Germany that is in surplus, that is without discussion. Germany is the dream of finance ministers. Being Minister of Finance in Germany is an amazing result of German. I'm just gonna say - and I'm not gonna draw that opening word anymore, or I'm gonna respond to any more of your questions - the fiscal pact actually, as it's presented, is badly deboned. However, we have come to the solidarity pact and, in particular, we have an effective law on the rules of budgetary responsibility and it clearly tells us that it lays down rules for us, introduces the National Budgetary Council, the Committee on Budget Forecasts, says what maximum deficit we can have, and then there are a number of measures that are taking place. And in my reply, I have also introduced France's actions this year, the rich country, the founder of the European Union, one of the signatories to the European Union, and after nine years, it has only ended with supervision of debt and overdraft. And a number of countries, and I have added that table to the President's reply, so that you will all have it at your disposal, there are a number of problems, and that is why we need to act cautiously, and we need to treat this fiscal policy and public finances in particular. And that fiscal pact at the moment, he was deboned because we've been approving him here for six years and we're the last country of the European Union that hasn't approached him, and it's basically the only thing that has a fundamental impact at the moment is that the Prime Minister of this country, when he's going to the enlarged Eurogroup, so - purely theoretically - they're going to let him in, of course, I'm not admitting that he's not, but he should officially stay at the door, because he hasn't come to this fiscal compact. And we have to watch. So we don't introduce the euro, let's tell people honestly. And the President has now admitted it, we are not approaching any euro, we do not have any of these conditions, but we want to be there and we want to see how developments are moving within the Eurogroup as well. I will not stretch out, President Stanjura has asked a question yet, yes, legitimate, he has spoken on the Committee on Budgets, and this is how it would be done if approval of certification was given, so what about those Titles III and IV. I immediately signed a question to the President of the Legislative Council of the Government and the Minister of Justice after the end of the budget committee during about a day or two to give me an answer, which I will then present and provide at second reading, of course. As a lawyer, I believe that a new trial would begin, but I want to have it confirmed by people who do it for a living and whose bread is everyday, who are responsible, so I'm waiting for it right now. At this point, I wouldn't drag it out, you have the answer, thank you for appreciating it, being processed honestly, and possibly answering questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u13	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No. President Stanjura has made it clear that he will not propose a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, so I am ending the discussion of this reply to the written question. Let's move on to the next one. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation on the electronic file. Interpelation is presented together with a reply as the House's Press 268. I am opening up a debate on this. Mr. Chairman Michálek is applying for it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, if the answer to President Stanjura's interpellation has been well prepared, the answer to my interpelation has been made dishonestly, because I have asked two clear questions, i.e. how many electronic file services are actually used in central government bodies because everyone in the electoral programme had the topic of digitalisation. It was said: we put in electronic circulation documents and they have documents, not people. But in fact it is still so that people orbit and documents orbit as much as in paper as thick fascicles. I didn't get an answer to how many of the electronic file services actually have complete electronic files in real life, and I got an answer that the central government authorities have an obligation to conduct an electronic file service, so I didn't get an answer there. And in the second part, I asked the question of what concrete steps the government has taken to implement an electronic file in the Czech Republic. It's a terrible thing to do with normal people, for example. in the building process, because instead of having one electronic file sharing the 40 different places to say it, starting with firefighters, police officers to hygiene or other authorities, these authorities are sending each other a paper file instead. And the building process, if you want to change a window in the landmark zone, is incredibly dragging. Now I know this from experience, because I wanted to move to another apartment and in the apartment where the previous owner, who also wants to move to a new apartment, has been waiting for some 12 months for the construction office to fill them with the fact that they can change the window in the apartment, so that's why I'm still living in a small apartment and I'm just dissatisfied with it because the construction authorities in this country aren't working at all. If they are digitized, this will help the Czech Republic to have a working building sector, for example, so that we can respond to the crisis that is on the housing market. For example, rents grow enormously in the capital city of Prague, and no one is doing anything about it, neither Mayor Krnáčová, nor Minister Dostálová, nor Prime Minister Babiš. Nothing's been done in five years. It's just getting worse and stagnating. If we could electronize the building process and the other file agendas, that would be different. That would finally speed things up, you could measure it, you could identify the places where the files get stuck. I didn't get any response to what specific steps the government had taken in the matter of electronizing the circulation of files. All I got was an answer that there's a national standard. Yes, there really is a national standard, but the national standard is in no way enforceable. There is even no procedure for the national standard of electronic filing services to be certified, i.e. manufacturers supply some products to the Ministry. How much money do you think is written services in public administration in the Czech Republic? It's estimated at 6 billion. CZK per year, which the public administration will put on file services in the Czech Republic, so it is really big money, 6 billion. CZK per year, and there is no way to certify that this corresponds to the requirements of the national standard, so that some products that are at our offices can't even shred those documents in accordance with the law can't create so-called. SIP packages that are then sent to the National Digital Archives. We're in really big trouble here. [[10.00 hours]] That is why I am very disappointed with the Prime Minister's reply. In fact, I don't think there's any government here that's made up of very well-paid people who are supposed to be working here, so there's no one who's gonna answer the interview, even though it's on the agenda, it's been sent out to everyone. This is consistent with the ignorance of this problem, which leads to people constantly having expensive housing in the capital city of Prague. The YES movement is simply responsible for this, and it is an incredible awkwardness. I wish I had the same honest answer Mr. Stanjura got. In particular, I wish that something should finally be done about it. So I'd like a government representative to come forward. If no government representative, given that only the finance secretary is sitting here, which I think is absolutely trivial, and that we should do something about these interpelations, if one of the 15 people here is sitting here who is not in charge yet, that corresponds to the government's level. If no one in the government is able to shed light on what the government has been doing over the past few years in the area of digitalisation, because I am no output except EET, which is more about bullying people than the introduction of real digitalisation that would help people, even in business, so if no one does, I propose a break in the presence of the Prime Minister to whom the interpelation is directed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u15	Yes, I understand. Mr. Chairman, let me just ask. Do you propose that the Chamber of Deputies be adjourned or that a written question be answered?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u16	Discuss the response to written interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u17	Okay, copy that. I think that is a procedural proposal that we can put to the vote. I'll call the MPs from the lobby. President Michálek's proposal was made to interrupt the discussion of his reply to his written interpelation towards Prime Minister Andrea Babiš in the presence of the Prime Minister. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We have reached the necessary number of Members present. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 63, 79 Members registered, for 48, against 23. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] We interrupt the discussion of the reply to the written interpellation of Mr Jakub Michálek in the case of the electronic file to the presence of the Prime Minister. Another answer to the written interpelation. [[Members shall draw attention to the reporting Member of Stanjur.]] Thanks for the heads-up. President Stanjura is claiming priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'm surprised at the last vote. I think it's perfectly polite and polite to interrupt the interpelation when the person for whom the interpelation was given is not present. We did not vote on contentment or discontent. I even think it should be automatic, that if the House is not present at the meeting, the person to whom the written interpelation is directed is not to interrupt. Don't be afraid of us. [[Jolly in the ranks of members of the YES.]] Don't be afraid to discuss it with us. When we vote whether we're satisfied or dissatisfied, that's another matter. But in order not to allow us to discuss a written interview with the Minister or Prime Minister not to come here so he doesn't have to answer any unpleasant questions, that seems really cowardly to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u19	Good morning, honourable Members. We've got another interpellation ahead of us. Mr. Jakub Michálek is still applying for priority rights. I haven't started the interpellation yet. If you want to interpelate, I'll start it first. [[No.]] All right, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u20	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that we interrupted it until the Prime Minister arrives at the Chamber of Deputies meeting and starts responding to the interpelation, he starts discussing with us. He doesn't have to worry about anyone throwing anything at him, we're discussing it very sophisticatedly. I was going to say that on this issue, we worked it out for the Prime Minister because we filed a motion. It is House document 1275. He introduces electronic circulation of documents at large offices, that the authorities start exchanging files electronically. That means they won't send each other big fascicles, that costs a lot of money. It even pays for transport services, I think it's CZK 500 for transporting one large file from one court to the other court. So we tabled an amendment that introduces this from 1. 7. 2021. I hope the Ministry of the Interior will support us in this, because the Ministry of the Interior is the guarantor of the state administration's electronicisation. The deadline is that we can make it. If we keep putting this off, we're just going to hand over our successors to the country in a much worse state than that, now that we have a boom and we're going to invest in innovation, we're going to raise salaries, we're going to try to find more efficient ways to invest in capital, and so on, we're not going to waste these opportunities right now. That is why I wanted to ask you to support this proposal at least when the House press 139, implementing law on GDPR, which deals with archivism, is under discussion, because there are a number of complications involved. Electronic filing services today do not even protect personal data to protect. The proposal to digitize the state administration is ready. pirát put him up, he's in the system, and now we'd like the government not to sabotage it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u21	I thank Mr Michálek for his speech. We will continue with the reply of the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek to the interview of Mr Jakub Michálek. Former Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interview on the possible bias of judges and prosecutors. Interpelation, along with the reply and further response of the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek, is presented as a House press 269. I don't see the Minister. Checking for apologies. The Minister apologizes at today's meeting for personal reasons. I ask my colleague Michálek what he is proposing in this context. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to put you in the context of what's going on. This is about my intervention in the fact that judges and prosecutors who have a salary of 100,000 a month use subsidized city flats from the capital city of Prague, where the rent is CZK 60 per square metre. It's about three or four times cheaper than it is on the market. So point No. 1. I do not understand how judges and prosecutors can accept such an advantage from someone, if it threatens even their impartiality when they decide in relation to the capital city of Prague. The amount is simply dramatically lower, because the apartments are intended for people who have some social needs. When I was a representative of the capital city of Prague, seniors and seniors came to see me, people who had some disability and complained about how long they had to wait in social housing waiting lists. And these are indeed social cases that will not be solved by a right-wing policy. Those people, they can't be told, go find a better job! And they won't get to some basic social housing because some judges and prosecutors are taking over the apartments. [[10.10 hours]] I am very pleased that, after Minister Pelikán stepped in, and Minister Pelikán dealt with this very seriously in my opinion, he even wrote to me in his letter of 3 April 2018 that the situation outlined is upset and agrees with me that the rental of apartments by the City Hall of Prague to selected judges and prosecutors under such favourable conditions in view of their salary assessment may appear to be non-standard in the eyes of the public. Then he was in charge of the Kněžínek, and he told me that there's nothing to be done, that it's okay. And I had a meeting with the City Attorney in Prague, and the State Attorney belongs to the sphere of executive power, that, so Mr.Erazím met with me, and we finally agreed to invite those state prosecutors concerned who use subsidized city flats to consider the situation and let's say they were more forthcoming to discuss it to some market conditions. And how many of these prosecutors do you think have called and started to deal with it in some way? Well, neither of them! Neither. Here, in the '90s, when there was a problem with the justice system, that judges and prosecutors had extremely low pay grade, it was logical that they were subsidized. But then when they - because to at least have some basic living conditions and to be secured and not exposed to corruption. But after their salaries went up in a huge way, they kept these benefits with the fact that it was just a bad setup by the Magistrate. Well, I really don't like it, and I think it's unnecessarily damaging to the reputation of justice. I am very sorry that Minister Kněžínek stood up to this differently than Minister Pelikán and basically wrote to me that it was okay and that he did not see any bias in it. Well, take the one who investigates the crimes that took place at the Prague City Hall? Well, who's investigating? These prosecutors are investigating, some of whom are held - how should I put it? - for the delicate places that they're threatened by the Magistrate taking away their subsidized apartment! So at a time when our public prosecutor, who is very well paid and is to oversee that the management of self-government works as it should, and at the same time part of those prosecutors is committed to officials and politicians of the capital city of Prague because they let them live at three or four times lower prices than market prices, so it is clear that nothing will ever be investigated in Prague! Opencard, Škodův Palace. That's just the paralysis of our justice system. And if we don't look very closely at the individual parts that paralyze the system, then the crimes just won't start investigating. And this threatens in a huge way people's confidence that justice and self-government work. So the answer from Mr. Kněžínek that there's nothing I can do about it is incompetent. I regret that, for personal reasons, Mr Kněžínek did not show up for an interview, although he had the documents in advance for a number of days, and I propose, as in the previous point, that we interrupt the discussion of this interview in the presence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u23	Okay, that is a procedural proposal that we can put to the vote without debate. That's what I'm gonna do. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once we get the required number of entries, we'll decide. I need three more, one more moment... We have a sufficient number of Members, so we can decide to interrupt the reply to Mr Jakub Michálek's written interview to Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. I've started voting number 64 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 64, from 75 in favour of 47, versus 9. The motion was accepted. This response to written inhalation has been discontinued. In this way, we have exhausted the programme of responses to written interpelations with the fact that the interpellation to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice has been interrupted. Since we have exhausted these written interpelations, I am interrupting negotiations within 11 hours when we will continue the meeting under the approved agenda and, of course, under the Rules of Procedure, we can also adjust the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue and we should focus on paragraph 76, which is the 227-E House Press, the EU's multi-annual financial framework. If there was room, we would discuss first-reading contracts. In the afternoon we would focus on paragraph 169, which is, of course, oral questioning. I'm asking if anyone is interested in the show at the moment. Mr. Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u25	Good morning, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. You have certainly noticed that yesterday there was a vote in the European Parliament on, say, Hungary's position on some issues of migration, when some of our MEPs, Eurocolegs, voted against Hungary, the one for Hungary. I think you've come to know it well enough. And the point is that Hungary is rejecting a unified position on the global pact for safe, managed and legal migration and on the second global pact for refugees. These two global pacts should be discussed shortly, I think on 25 September, at the UN General Assembly and the Czech Republic according to information, the Minister of the Interior and the Foreign Minister, Mr Hamáček, should be represented there. I have prepared a point called Information of the Government on the position of the Czech Republic on the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and on the Global Pact on Refugees. I would like to know what the position of this coalition government is and with which the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs will represent us there and, where appropriate, how he will speak on this matter. Some of you may have received a text message now, 15 twenty minutes ago, where you are to comment on a similar subject for one of the servers, when the Prime Minister, who basically said that - and now I am paraphrasing in some way - that he is ashamed, or that he is sorry for the MEPs, for the MEPs elected for the YES movement who voted in Parliament to impose against Hungary. This is specifically about the Member... A calf, Ježek. At least they were mentioned to you. Perhaps others, here I see - Charanzová, Dlabajová. So the Prime Minister said that he continued to hold the position that he promised his Hungarian counterpart Orbán at a recent meeting in Hungary, that he was on the same boat, but that we, as MPs, might be. The citizens of the Czech Republic knew what the official position of the Czech Republic was and with what the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs would fly to New York, so we should have this information. So I would like to propose this point after the previous agreement, where I know that the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State here should be present for next week on Wednesday, that means 19. 9. As the first item in the afternoon's meeting. Name once again - Information about the Czech Government's position on the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and the Global Pact on Refugees. Thank you for your support, if any.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u26	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, our SPD movement is proposing a similar matter that has been raised here. We're suggesting, and I think that when the deadline came up, we were planning on putting it in a little bit for Tuesday. But we also propose to include a point in order to discuss the Czech Government's position on negotiations on a global pact for safe, managed and legal migration and a global pact for refugees. We're here to agree that the point should be 19. 9. as the first point of the afternoon meeting. As far as our reasoning is concerned, we would really like to, and I think that it is sufficient time to prepare for this meeting for the Chamber of Deputies to adopt our proposed resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers the continuation of the Czech Republic in the UN Global Pact on Safe Controlled and Legal Migration to be a condition contrary to the fundamental interests of the Czech Republic and the Czech nation. In view of this, we demand that the Czech Republic leave this global pact following the model of Hungary and the USA. We ask the Government of the Czech Republic to take appropriate steps in relation to this pact in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." Yes, here we see exactly the difference between how Hungary, where the Hungarian Foreign Minister rides at the negotiations, both on the Marrakesh Declaration and on the global migration pact, is already equipped with Parliament's position. So he goes there, they've already had it discussed in the committees. He has the Hungarian Parliament's position and this strong mandate can then be dealt with. Here we see what the contradiction is with what the current government is doing here. In fact, the current government is not discussing these serious matters with us at all in the House. These are things that go beyond the length of this term and can really influence both social peace in the Czech Republic and democratic composition in the Czech Republic and in terms of security. And I would just like to say a few citations here about what the global pact for safe and controlled legal migration is, in fact, a global pact for refugees that will be discussed at the UN General Assembly, which will be launched on the 25th. 9. 2018, which is this month in a very short time. According to our information, the Czech Interior Minister and Foreign Minister Jan Hamáček are to represent the Czech Republic at the meeting and both of these contracts are to be discussed publicly in this international forum. Well, if we look at what's going on here, for example. The Hungarian Foreign Trade Minister Péter Szijjártó states that Hungary sees migration processes from a different perspective, because, according to the UN and according to these documents, migration is - I quote "an irreplaceable and good process that should be supported." So these are really completely scandalous matters. For example, the Hungarian Foreign Minister considers this a bad process, which here is an absolute agreement with our SPD movement. This is absolutely a process which we reject and which brings danger to Europe and Hungary. Furthermore, the UN believes that migration should be encouraged. That's what that means. Of course, the SPD thinks that it should be stopped and that we must reject these documents. Furthermore, the document shows that the UN document considers migration to be a fundamental right and prohibits restrictions on migration movements. Well, that's really quite scandalous what's going on here. And I would just like to remind you that the analysis, which was produced at the Hungarian Government's office, says that in the event of accession to this global pact on the migration of the UN, its provisions, the global pact, would become part of the law during the judicial practice that would create the relevant precedents, which would mean that our courts and our law would basically have to follow these issues gradually. And I think that is an absolutely unacceptable matter. [[11.10 hours]] That is why I wanted to ask you once again to support our proposal, by way of a proposal from my colleague, to include a point entitled 'Department of the Chamber of Deputies' on the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration' and on the Global Pact on Refugees on 19. 9. as a first point and together, just as we did on the proposal of the SPD in the Marrakesh Declaration and on the upcoming revision of the Dublin Declaration, so that, as the House, we should also put the government in place following the model of Hungary, how it is to proceed in a binding manner. Since it does not make me very clear that, while Hungary was already calling on the Marrakesh meeting, which was in the first half of this year, I suspect in May, the Hungarian Foreign Minister also went there with the Hungarian Parliament's position, so even though we were calling here as the Chamber of Deputies, even then the government had no confidence in June, even in January, when we were discussing Dublin, the Government had no confidence, and we agreed across the spectrum that the Government should ask the Chamber of Deputies on these serious matters, and it does not matter who is the opposition or the coalition, and together we should equip the government with our position. And by the way, I have also heard from some Members that it was a good thing that, for example, Marrakesh and Dublin, we did this because some government officials still welcomed it, because they could really go with a stronger mandate and could possibly better face some possible pressures that would be against the interests of the Czech Republic. That is why I wanted to ask you once again to include this point, so that we can all prepare ourselves calmly and to adopt a resolution, just as we did at Dublin and Marrakech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-001-168.u28	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking on the agenda or with priority rights. It's not like that. We will therefore only vote on one point, on Mr Ondráček's proposal, to first include a new point, which is called the Information of the Government on the position of the Czech Republic on the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and the Global Pact on Refugees. I'll call the MPs from the lobby. [[Gong.]] Mr. Mr. Juříček wants to speak on the agenda? Are you suggesting a point? There is no debate, that means either proposing a specific point or with priority rights. I can't allow another performance. I can still see a couple of colleagues coming in to make it. We will vote on the inclusion of a new item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is vote number 65, registered 123, for 47, against 14. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will no longer vote on a solid classification. Let me read one apology. Mr Ondřej Polanský apologizes between 11 and 19 o'clock because of a doctor's visit. [[He's speaking outside the microphone with Vice-President Okamura.]] Just a second. It's obviously voteable, there's another point here proposed by the House of Commons, not government information, which is formally another point. We will therefore also vote on the proposal by Vice-President Okamura. I'm sorry, I saw it as a connection to the proposal. So we will vote on the inclusion of a new point, which would be called the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and on the Global Pact on Refugees. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 66, registered 128, for 35, versus 4. Nor has this proposal been adopted. More apologies have arrived. Mr Lukáš Černohorský apologizes between 14.30 and 19.00 because of negotiations. Mrs Richterová apologizes from the afternoon meeting. Let's continue with the point.
