ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. Now, please log in with your ID cards and tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. Vice-President Hamáček votes with replacement card number 3, Mr Mašek votes with replacement card number 1. I also say that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Mr Ivan Adamec for no reason, Mrs Dana Balcarová for health reasons, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček for work reasons, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová for personal reasons, Mr Pavel Jelínek for family reasons, Mr Leo Luzar for personal reasons, Mr Přemysl Mališ for family reasons, Mrs Květa Matušovská for personal reasons, Mrs Radka Maxová for family reasons, Mr Vojtěch Pikal from 11.30 to 14.00 for work reasons, Mr David Pražák for health reasons, Mr Ivo Vondrák without giving reason - and I see him, so I assume that he is withdrawing his apology. Mrs Miloslava Vostrá for personal reasons, Mr Rostislav Vyzula for health reasons. Mrs Jana Levová's apology came further from 9.00 to 10.00 without giving any reason. Minister Tomáš Hüner apologizes for foreign travel, Minister Lubomír Metnar for work reasons, Minister Jiří Milek for work reasons, Minister Robert Plaga for work reasons, Minister Martin Stropnickýý for health reasons and Minister Dan Ťok from 12 o'clock to the end of the meeting for work reasons. I remind you that at today's meeting we have the first item item number 40, and that is the request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. Then we would eventually deal with other points from the block of first reading, laws. I am now asking my colleagues whether anyone is interested in speaking and proposing to amend the approved agenda for the meeting. At this point, I have the first written application from the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to whom I hereby give my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I wish you good morning. I have negotiated this agreement with the representatives of all the clubs and the request of the electoral committee. I would like to include item 34 as the first item, which is the proposal for the election of members and the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information. It's the committee we set up two days ago on Wednesday. She's seven-man. I was asked by the clubs that the chairman of this commission could be elected next week on Wednesday. In order to vote for the President, we must first fill this committee. It is one vote, one can say by technical, acclamation, so if you agree, the point, including my word, will not last longer than five minutes, and so please place this point - it is paragraph 34 - at this point in time as the first point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-000-000.u3	Thank you. I'm asking who else has a motion to change the meeting. I don't see anyone. We will therefore vote on President Kolovratník's proposal to include item 34 as the first item today. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 27, 163 Members are logged in, for 159, against no one. This proposal was adopted. In that case, we have dealt with the agenda for today's meeting. I'll ask for the background. This is an electoral point that I am opening up to. Its name is
