ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Sb., on pharmaceuticals and on amendments to some related laws (the Act on Medicines), as amended (the House Press 5/ - second reading) Under the authority of the Government, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, will state the draft bill. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable guests, I shall merely indicate in brief, after discussions within the first reading and discussion of the Committee on Health, that the aim of this proposal for an amendment to the Act on Medicines is to ensure the transposition of Commission Directive 2016/1214 of 25 July 2016 amending Directive 2005/62/EC as regards the standards and specifications of the quality system for transfusion equipment. It is therefore purely a transposition amendment, which is intended, in particular, to enable the issue of a decree which, in accordance with the directive, lays down guidelines for good practice in applying the standards and specifications of the quality system precisely for the equipment of the transfusion service. The deadline for transposition of the cited directive expires on 15 February 2018. These guidelines, which govern technical details in the field of the operation of blood establishments, are already being used on a voluntary basis and are being binding on the Member States of the European Union thanks to that Directive. The important information in this regard is that, after discussions, the Committee on Health recommended that this proposal be approved and, in the Committee's deliberations, I, as a Member, proposed that, for the period of 2018, it be possible not to impose sanctions on doctors for prescribing medicinal products in breach of Section 80 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 The Act on Medicines and, where appropriate, the penalties already initiated have been terminated. This amendment was adopted by the Committee. Let me make it clear that it's the so-called electronic recipes, the project that's going on. The obligation of electronic recipes has become effective 1. 1. 2018. However, given that the project is not entirely in phase to be fully launched, especially because a relatively large number of doctors are still waiting to verify their application - although it should be pointed out that the vast majority of doctors in the system are already registered, but not all of them still have the access data, it is still about six thousand doctors waiting for it - so I think it is correct to propose a change in the sense of deferment of sanctions by a year so that doctors can first handle all the requested applications and, secondly, adopt the system in order to make various mistakes. But it should be pointed out that the system works differently without greater fundamental problems. In view of the fact that this is a transposition amendment, when the deadline for the transposition of the cited directive expires on 15 February 2018, I would like to ask you to discuss this proposal as soon as possible so that the Czech Republic does not have to face penalties for non-compliance under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Thank you for your support and attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as House Presses 5/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, now take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and, if necessary, justify the amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President. I would just briefly summarize what has actually happened to this press since the last meeting here in the House at the first reading, which was on December 5. We've heard what the press has to say. There were two meetings of the Health Committee. One was December 7th, the other was January 12th. From the first meeting, you have a resolution under number 5/1, where this item was interrupted until the next meeting. At the next meeting, which was on 12 January, both the rules which are in the European directive were discussed, but mainly the discussions on the electronic recipe and its functioning. At first, several amendments were tabled to the committee, but all of them were withdrawn by their authors except one which the Minister said was his amendment, which satisfies what has been said and promised that, in the event of sanctions when writing an electronic recipe, sanctions are annulled, as has already been said by the Minister, and there is still an important statement which has not yet been made and which I think is very important for all doctors, which is a transitional provision when an event occurs. infringement proceedings due to the failure to write an electronic recipe, which would have been initiated from 1 January of this year, shall be suspended until the publication of this Act. Resolutions that you have in your system under No. 5/2, then it says that it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to this government proposal, as amended by the amendments adopted, and that is the one amendment that I have now described in detail. Secondly, it empowers me, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to propose other necessary adjustments under Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, as rapporteur for the Committee and rapporteur for this press, I am empowered to introduce you to this resolution. That is basically all there is to it when it comes to committee meetings. It's nothing exciting, it's a common agenda. However, the electronic recipe is still being discussed, because even if it works in the global, there are still partial problems, more or less formal ones that are being solved. However, since the amendment concerns blood derivatives and the inclusion of the European Union directive in our legislative order, but it is enriched with certain rules on electronic recipes, we believe, in agreement with the applicant, that this amendment should be adopted as soon as possible, and we propose a reduction of the deadline for further negotiations of the guarantee committee to seven days. I think that's it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u5	I thank the rapporteur. Please take the floor at the news desk. Before we proceed to the general debate, one more apology will be corrected. Mr Petr Sadovský cancels his apology from today's meeting and is present. I am now opening a general debate to which Members Nachr and Svoboda have signed up. Mr Patrik Nachr will be the first to speak. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] If I'm reading your name wrong, as I've been notified, and I'm supposed to read it to Nacher, I'm sorry. Mr Nacher has the floor. I and others will remember that. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u6	Good morning. Nacher like Langer to remember it well. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to load here, and in a more detailed debate, I would like to read it directly, rather explain the amendment with which I come here in agreement with the Ministry of Health. [[11.20 hours]] As a person who has been in charge of the media for 22 years and who has been in charge of consumer protection for the past 13 years, I would like to withdraw my proposal for a so-called sticker and return to the previous state in Law No. 378/2007 SB., about medicines where a passage regulating advertising appeared, in particular responsibility for advertising content, for product types such as medicines, medicines, food supplements and so on. I think - and I say this here from the point of view of a person who protects consumers, i.e. also TV viewers from misleading advertising - that this is the task and duty of the contracting authority, the processor, but not the dissemination of such advertising. The promoter doesn't have a chance at all to live up to his responsibilities. That would have to be on every TV, every radio, every billboard company, and so on, there'd have to be some labs. If I transfer it to another area of finance, I can't imagine that television, for example, would check whether real ads for loans - whether they correspond to the above calculated RPSN or interest rates. They'd have to hire some financial advisor's spreaders. In other words, I think it is necessary to separate the processor's responsibility from that of the communicator. The spreader, of course, can control what he sees at first sight within his legal obligations, that is, whether the advertising is not spreading any hatred or something like that, racism and so on, but going into the guts to control the quality of the product whose advertising is spreading, I think it is unrealistic and it may have some negative consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another is the debate of Mr Svoboda, but in the meantime, there has been a factual comment made by Mr Brázdil. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, they asked me a lot: please, we have three laws on pharmaceuticals now. So just so you know, this is a government proposal, which is essentially about discussing the extension of the doctor's non-sancionability for the first year. Then there's the Senate proposal, we'll discuss it next Wednesday, which actually delays it by two years. And then there's a parliamentary motion that, I don't know exactly how it's gonna go, but it might want to move up by five years. That's for an explanation. And I wanted to respond to my colleague Nacher. On the contrary, I was very pleased that it got there, because it seems logical or good to me when the one who spreads it does not spread delusions and nonsense and at least verify something that the drug, the supplement, is not harmful. I know it's complicated that it's nonsense to have labs. But from my point of view, I liked it. And again, I understand that you want to put it down, my colleague, but it's for consideration at third reading. We'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u9	Thank you. I merely recall the need to address Members through the President. There. We can now return to the general debate on the duly registered ones. Mr Svoboda is next, Mr Kaňkovský will prepare. In the meantime, I'll introduce you to other apologies. For today's meeting, Mr Mihola apologizes from 11 a.m. to the end of the meeting, and Minister Němcová apologizes for this morning for working reasons, from 14 a.m. to 14 a.m. Mr Marek Výborný, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček apologizes for this day for working reasons, and Mr Ondřej Benešík apologises from 11 a.m. to 11 a.m. for working reasons. At the same time, we will correct Mr David Kasal's apology, which was originally within 13 hours, and the Member is already present. So many apologies and I give the floor to Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to say that the Chamber of Deputies is just as erratic as the City of Prague's representative, because the problem of saying the word Nacher was addressed by the council for about six months before it came to an end and it began to say well. So it's nothing special, a colleague is used to it. Now to the point. As the previous colleague said, we have three versions of the law on the table. But I would like to say something that I see as essential. The variant presented by the Ministry, when translated into simple language, means that for one year you can write recipes in writing. Just because the pharmacy has to accept the written recipe, it is based on the law, and the penalty is abolished. So we've actually got an annual legisvacation to get a lot of these things to work out. Because what I see as the main problem is that the recipe doesn't meet the possibilities that it has, that it doesn't actually bring us anything essential in order to be able to monitor or know how the patient is being treated. So we've actually reached a phase where we write it electronically, but it makes the same sense as when it's on paper. That is why I think that this year is important, and I think that it solves the problem, and that it will, of course, also be accepted in other variants that should be discussed here. Then there's another thing I'd like to open. It's actually all based on the fact that Decree No. 143/2008 Coll., on transfusion contributions and on blood derivatives. We have come to the point that we consider essential in getting to know the material, and after discussing it with the committee chair, Professor Adámková, I say it here, even though I know it does not apply to this meeting. We have Decree No. 148/2008 Sb. defined what tests should be done in the blood investigation, or in the blood investigation, to determine whether the blood is infected. We're only investigating it by determining antibodies and antigens. It's a professional thing. But this test has a window from three weeks to six months in a C-section where the antibodies aren't. In autumn 2015, three children with hepatitis C, including one nurse, were infected simply because the blood was negative due to serological tests. When a control examination was performed using a method of direct detection of viral RNA in all those negative samples, it showed that they were infected. There are about two or three countries in Europe that do not directly detect viral RNA. I do not want to say which countries they are, but we are actually very far from Europe when we have still joined them today. So we're going to propose, or we've already discussed it with the Minister in advance, to be in that decree No. 143/2008 Sb. it has been found that direct detection of viral RNA has always been determined when testing blood for HIV1,2 for infectious hepatitis B and type C, in addition to testing for antibodies. We consider this a very important matter and we have a preliminary promise from the Minister that the Ministry will deal with this matter. I'm only telling her here so the House knows that this is part of this law, and we need to complete it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u11	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Adámková is registered. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only have a few supplementary and really factual points. As for the supplemental proposal on advertising of medical devices, we do not even care about others, it should be considered that it is a slightly different product than ordinary shoes, with all due respect to everyone, and unfortunately there are already several complaints made by people who have thereby damaged their health in the Czech Medical Chamber. Of course, they are adults, their legal ones, but they believe what they are called especially in the media. So we're gonna work with this. We've had some meetings on the committee. But it is not possible to approach it exactly as it is to advertise a new coat. We have to admit that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u13	Thank you. For the record, I am merely adding that Mrs Maříková, who did not mention the reason for the apology, apologizes for work reasons. Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Válek, is also entered into the debate. I ask Mr Kaňkovský to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u14	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Allow me to make a few comments on the amendment to the Act on Medicines, specifically on the issue of electronic prescription of medicines, i.e. eRecipes. Firstly, I would like to publicly admit that I was convinced that the eRecipes system would collapse on January 2nd. I confess that I am glad that this has not happened, that the system has not collapsed and that the system works at least in the part in which it is used. The question remains, however, how a large percentage of doctors actually exhibit eRecipes at the moment, and here I would like to ask the Minister if he could tell us in the discussion what percentage of recipes is displayed in electronic form and how much percent is still displayed in written form. In any case, it can be expected that real testing or full testing of the system will not come until more than 90 percent of recipes are implemented electronically. Until then, there will be a real examination of both communication with the central repository and the dispensing of medicinal products in pharmacies. However, other risks and problems that have already been identified during the short functioning of mandatory e-crisis should also be pointed out. For myself, I believe that many practical shortcomings will be managed in real terms, and that will not be removed for a long time. But for others, I dare say it won't be that simple. And there is still a fundamental reminder of the mandatory e-crisis and that is the absence of the superstructure parts, in particular the drug record and its accessibility to all doctors, or other superstructures, without which the e-crisis project is merely a military game, unfortunately for more than 300 million. I'll mention a few problems from practice at random without assessing the severity, rather for your idea. Personally, I support electronization in health care when it improves patient care and simplifies the work of health professionals. That's why I'm not one of the opponents of the electronic recipe. It bothers me, though, that at this point, his sense is small. However, I personally, like many other doctors, have encountered problems that caused my first eRecipe to be implemented on Monday, 15 January of this year. Therefore, I have not been able to prescribe eRecipe for two weeks with the best will, in a situation where I have already completed a qualified certificate for electronic signature in our hospital in September 2017. Following the processing of access to the central repository, our hospital then made a request for access to the central repository of the medical facility and all these steps took place relatively without any difficulty. The problem occurred when I wanted to take the last step at the IT department in December 2017, i.e. set up access to the central repository and issue the first e-recipe. It was then shown that the password sent from SÚKL in writing was illegible with one character. You'll think of a trivial problem. It's just like him! We immediately contacted the SÚKL, i.e. his telephone line, on which no one responded during repeated attempts, so I contacted, respectively our IT, employees of the SÚKL by e-mail. Response came in more than 14 days. On purpose, I speak of my personal experience, but a number of doctors, medical facilities, and many pharmacies have noticed a problem. Yes, in most cases it was technical difficulties, but we mustn't lie to ourselves that they don't exist. From the reactions of doctors both from hospitals and from the private sphere, it is clear that communication with the central repository shows blackouts. Problems are caused by incorrect input of some data. The major problem is slowing down the operation of ambulances and the operation of dispensing medicinal products in pharmacies. Here too, some of these problems can be considered as the birth pain of this project. Unfortunately, for example, the slowing down of the ambulance or dispensation of drugs is not what I'm afraid. A serious problem is the situation where a doctor works in more than one health facility and must use an electronic signature and transfer his safety certificate to another workplace. There are a number of risks for both the doctor himself and the host medical facility. Even this issue has not yet been systematically resolved. The above examples show that the Czech Republic is not yet comprehensively prepared for mandatory e-crisis, while I believe that the technical difficulties I have identified as birth pain will be resolved within a few months. I'm not that optimistic about all the other problems mentioned. I therefore welcome the activity of Minister Vojtěch, who is operationally addressing at least the situation in 2018 by freezing sanctions measures. However, it must be acknowledged that this is really only an operational solution, which, moreover, can be assessed as a dangerous precedent from a legislative point of view. I would therefore like to appeal to the Minister to really strain all the forces necessary for legislative changes, but also the technical preparation necessary for the implementation of the medical record and the general approach of doctors to it, as well as for the removal of technical difficulties, to be carried out by the end of 2018. Otherwise, at the end of 2018, we will be in a situation similar to that in which we found ourselves at the end of last year. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u15	They are now registered with factual remarks - Mr Jáč and Minister Pelikán. Mr Jáč has priority. [[Member Jáč reports that there has been a technical malfunction.]] Okay, I understand, it won't be a point of fact. A real comment is made by Minister Pelikán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u16	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really just want to make a point, because I do not want to get involved in this matter. But here, as part of the lamentations, there seems to be some kind of public responsibility for the outcome. Everyone in this state is only responsible for the violation of their duties. So typically, if someone can't expose the eRecipe because the infrastructure to be provided by the state doesn't work for some reason, they can't commit any offense, they can't be prosecuted for it. As Minister of Justice, I need this to be heard, so that citizens are not afraid that we have stopped living in the rule of law. Don't worry, there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u17	With a point of fact, Mr Kasal is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to turn through you, Mr President, to my colleague Kaňkovský with just a comment on - if I have understood from what has been said, then the eRecipes and the answer is slowed down with you. In our hospital, it's no problem. So now the question is, what's the problem, if the problem is systemic, which if it's different in two places, I would doubt, but more about what the internet connection will be, in which case it's about technical support, and so there we can ask for some recommendations. But other than that, I don't think it's necessarily a system thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Válek is entered into the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u20	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with your mouth, Mr President, to kind of please my colleague Nacher, because the seemingly last name of Válek is simple, only until your colleague - he is a plastic surgeon and his name is Válka, and you are waiting every day before the radiological workplace of women who expect you to advise them on how to improve their appearance, and you can only offer a picture. So it's not a good last name, it's also not a victory to name Válek. [[11.40 hours]] However, to comment on why I volunteered, that's the electronic recipe. I think there are a few things that need to be realized. The electronic recipe is used in health care for at least 15 years, in hospitals where I work it is used from 10 to 12 years of age. Basically, it's that I fill out a recipe in some software, then print it out on some paper, eventually send it somewhere. In our hospital, or in one of the hospitals where I worked, the recipes were even stored, which were electronically completed in the program that is in that hospital, because we've always cyclically evaluated who prescribes what etc. In fact, within the hospital, we did what he planned at the time of the electronic recipe, which is sometimes in 2009, 2009, we are talking about something that was launched by the SÚKL ten years ago, which he planned ten years ago by the SÚKL. And after ten years, he didn't make it. The electronic recipe, as we know it today, as we speak about it today, is de facto that every health care facility, every doctor must either implement or buy into his computer, have software produced that will be part of the current hospital information system - every hospital has a different information system - and the software will communicate with that information system - some communicate better, some worse, some companies are better prepared - or some worse - or that he will use the program that he offers centrally to the SÚKL. Well, that's the first thing that needs to be realized. Second thing. After he writes the recipe in this program, he has to print the recipe anyway. In 99 percent the recipe must be printed. There are colleagues here, there's a friend of mine, a classmate, a colleague, a private gynecologist. Yes, I understand when a woman wants to cyclically prescribe birth control that she can fill out a prescription electronically, send her a recipe by e-mail home, saves that woman a visit to a gynecologist, saves herself writing recipes, in this case it works, but in those other cases she'll eventually print the recipe. And many of these programs want the recipe instead of the small form you know and use, to be printed on the A4 format. That's the problem. That's just a real problem. Of course, medical devices and doctors try to use the electronic recipe. It didn't say here that for filling one item in the electronic recipe, medical devices are bonified, I guess, CZK 1.70 per item on the recipe. That means, if I use a normal recipe or use the standard software that I have in my information system, write medications, get nothing extra from the insurance company. If I use this new software and write what's called an electronic recipe here, but it's a new software that allows central archiving and management of central drugs in the SÚKL database in a repository that cost some 300 million, if I remember correctly, in 2009, then for each item on the recipe, the medical device will receive CZK 1.70. But nothing gets a pharmacy, which, of course, makes it a huge problem. We talk about doctors all the time, but we don't talk about drugstores. And now, remember, most of you, I assume that even each of you was in a pharmacy with a prescription, he was in a pharmacy in a supermarket, he was in a pharmacy somewhere where you live, not just in a hospital pharmacy, and we have to realize that there's a difference. You brought one or two recipes, you gave it to the guy who gave it to you, the recipe, he took the recipes and went around with the cupcake and the rack recipes, and he picked out the drugs, put them in their cupcake, and he brought you the cupcake. With the electronic recipe everything works so that the pharmacist has to log into the computer system, there will appear one single item from one of the recipes, picks up this item, then reads the second item, then reads the third, etc., which will slow down the release of the drugs considerably and slow down the release of the drugs. The second problem that really exists is that if a doctor can't work well with the system, it will almost 100% happen to him that he clicks a very inconspicuous box that he mustn't replace the pharmacist. So if you go in there and the medicine your doctor prescribed, the pharmacist doesn't have it, but it has the same, just as effective, but another drug would normally replace it, so it doesn't change it. He can't offer you another drug, and he can't do anything about it, because he can't actively enter the system, change it, influence it. That's just reality, too, that's what it is. I'm still not criticizing, all I'm saying is what the situation looks like. Of course, it is a big problem that part of the medication simply cannot be written using an electronic recipe at all. These are typically drugs that are described as a magistraliter, e.g. Mast basics, ointments. You just don't write hemorrhoid ointment using an electronic recipe because you have to write the schedule that makes the ointment in there to mix it up for you. But you don't write opiates either, you don't write some other medications that you just can't write. Then there's a group of doctors, they're all my doctors at the radiological clinic, they're all doctors who are in our workplaces, i.e. microbiologists, biochemists, pathologists, doctors in the nuclear medicine department who don't have an ambulance, they don't have a department, they don't have patients, insurance companies don't let them have an ambulance in their lives, they never can, they can't show outpatient codes, so they can't write themselves a prescription. That means I'm in a situation today that I can only write myself a prescription for the form, but I can't, and I'm registered, I have an electronic recipe, I'm in the system, I have the program installed on my computer, but I'm not going to write a recipe for my own use. And to this day, I don't know how this system has been made up to do it, or whether the system has been designed to do it in such a way that I'll never, ever, ever, by electronic recipe, prescribe a cure for the use of my, my wife, my children, event. my parents, as the law allows. Another thing I would like to talk about, which I would like to mention, is the GDPR Directive, the Data Protection Directive, which will start to apply as of March. And I would very much like to hear if there will be any impact of this directive on the electronic recipe. Because data protection and the protection of some software are brutally higher, especially in health care, according to this directive, and at a time when the whole legislation of the electronic recipe was created, no one even considered that such a directive could exist. This means it would be very good for us to know and be sure that we will not discuss again in March that everything will have to change because GDPR is paying. Finally, it is a pity that none of the things that were tested in the pilot project in 2009 - after all, Masaryk's cancer institute was one of those workplaces where the pilot project was implemented - and which was to be an advantage for patients, an advantage for doctors, is not realized in ten years. In ten years, none of these things are available. That means joining the demands and requests that have been made here. First of all, I would very much like to get an evaluation of the pilot project that SÚKL organized nine years ago. As it turned out, what risks appeared there and whether the risks of the SÚKL worked. And then I'd like to know if we can really believe that the promises that were made at the time mean that I'm going to have access to the drug database, that I'm going to find out what the patient is taking, that the database is going to be able to release and connect, they're really going to be implemented by the end of the year. It's not up to the doctors, it's not up to the pharmacies, but it depends on the SÚKL, as a matter of fact, on the Ministry of Health. I am very pleased that the current Minister has proposed at least to postpone sanctions, and I cannot fully agree that the problem is only a technical solution on the part of communication between the doctor and the SÚKLEM. There are a number of problems why a doctor may have trouble writing an electronic recipe, and from my layman's point of view, the reasons may seem to be caused by a doctor, yet they are not entirely caused by it. But it's hard for the doctor to explain that they're not guilty of it. It is also not the reasons mentioned here by the Minister, not the reasons for the communication of the doctor, the SÚKL and, say, registration, but the reasons given by the program, the software, by the fact that some things cannot be prescribed, by the fact that the program does not work well. And of course, there may be problems on the pharmacy's side, because what is a valid electronic recipe for a patient if the pharmacy refuses to accept electronic recipes. [[11.50 hours]] If doctors issue electronic recipes, we will achieve that one hundred percent of doctors will use electronic recipes within a quarter of a year, six months in those situations where possible, but pharmacies will take advantage of the fact that there will be no sanctions for a year and refuse to implement and accept those electronic recipes, so it can't work. That means my next question is how is it made up that even pharmacies are proactive and that even pharmacies are interested. I understand that for those medical facilities, that's CZK 1.70 per item, which is a huge sum in the budget of some of those facilities. I understand there's a lot of support from the SÚKL, that there's an effort by the ministry to get the doctors to work with it, to communicate with the chamber. But what about the other side? What about the patient with the electronic recipe when he comes in and the pharmacy says, "Sorry, error, we haven't been able to process the electronic recipe yet." Well, there should be a clear approach here, too. Finally, I would just like to mention the transfusion contributions, and I am very pleased that my colleague Svoboda, as well as my colleague Vyzula, with whom we dealt with the issue on a round-the-clock basis, joined my amendment to the parties to the transfusion products, which I submitted and then withdrew, because the relevant professional society is not united in what type and at which workplaces the transfusion product should actually be evaluated. It needs to be realized that - you of you who are doctors, so you may know better than I do, you who are not, so let me tell them - nowadays blood is taken away in a way that takes away and gives blood, but the blood is divided into a number of products that are used in different ways. And the text that my colleague Svoboda was talking about has basically two small expert loopholes, two small professional problems. The first is that these preparations are not only given into a vein, but in a part of the patients they may also pour into the wound. It is at one or two, three workplaces, which are very specialized, and part of the doctors who deal with this issue, and the relevant professional society is not sure if the legislation will prevent this. We have discussed this with Deputy Minister Policar and with the Minister, and I am promised that this will be incorporated into the amendment and discussed very carefully with the professional company. The second problem is really the one that was mentioned here. The fact is that in one of the hospitals really two small children had a serious complication after the administration of the transfusion product. Another thing is that the children were severely ill and in very bad condition, they were oncological patients. However, it is absolutely true that between taking the patient's blood and when some parts of the blood are used, some of the blood products will in most cases be long enough to determine that the blood taken is healthy and that the donor is not sick and does not have hepatitis. However part, a small part of these products lasts only a few days, respectively. Let's say two weeks, which is not long enough for routine tests to reveal that the patient is really healthy. That is, in these cases, doctors who take the blood must rely only on asking the patient that he is a voluntary donor, that he has a Janský gold plaque. The problem is that part of those donors in these cases - they are platelets - part of those donors are paying donors who, for various reasons, do not give completely true information. These are really paid patients, paid people who give these platelets quite regularly for money, and current tests are evaluated too long to find out that they are healthy in time. The risk is really small, but it would be extremely helpful if two, three, four transfusion stations in large hospitals, which would richly cover the consumption of this product, for the whole Republic, were forced to do this test. It is not that these hospitals are currently not testing. I can say that my hospital, Brno University Hospital, this one is 100 percent. And I personally don't find it entirely correct if we're talking about offering our patients the same quality of care, that in one hospital, those patients currently have the highest quality test possible, in 100 percent, and in another hospital, also directly controlled by the state, they don't do this test in even one percent of the patients. This I don't think is correct. But I am glad that both Deputy Minister Policar and Minister have confirmed and promised that they will be intensively involved, and I have information from the relevant expert association that this is already happening and meetings have taken place, for which I would like to thank very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u21	Mr Válek was the last member of the general debate. I see the rapporteur, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President. After all, I would return a little bit to the general debate that has not yet been concluded. First of all, to his colleague Válek, through you, Mr Vice-President. He introduced a number of problems that electronic recipes are. I'm sure in everything he said, I think that's the right thing to do. He is not an ordinary radiologist, he is an exceptional radiologist and has a number of interesting observations and it is good that he is in our health committee. But I think all the problems that are being solved are solvable. That's important. I say this because we work in an institution that has more than ten years of experience with an electronic recipe, and the problems have been resolved, resolved, and currently we have problems solved. However, everyone doesn't have that advantage. But why did I volunteer? Rather, I volunteered to comment briefly here on Mr Nacher's contribution to misleading advertising. I think we're still going to discuss this on the guarantee committee, but it's a good thing we can discuss this because we're on Parliament's floor. And as Mr Blažek said here in history, if we're not here to discuss, there'll be barricades outside. So we'll discuss it and discuss it from all sides. I just want to say briefly that the purpose was to protect a person, protect a patient, because he cannot know in the situation in which what is best for him, and often in that desperate situation he turns to any blade of grass. And then, I think that there's just a certain obligation to control, and that control could also take place at the level of the advertiser. Finally, last year the Nobelův Prize was awarded for so-called. Liberal paternalism, which is the problem. That's what the Nobelův Prizes are for. We're dealing with this, and we want to put it back? Who do we want to protect? Do we want to protect the patient? Or the media? And there are different media. They're solid media, we know, they're less solid, and they're unsteady, who'll publish anything at any cost, just to get the money for it. And that is what I think it is for this assembly to do, in the spirit of a certain liberal paternalism, to propose the protection of the patient. And it is not at all easy, because if Mr Nacher had ever seen the patient who paid for it, the misleading advertising, he probably would have spoken a little differently. But we'll talk about it for sure. We'll talk about it. It's an interesting topic for a long time and I look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u23	Now we have three factual points. Mr Nacher, Mr Válek and Mr Berkovec. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I shall inform the House that Mr František Kopřiva has a replacement card number 1. Now, Mr Nacher and his point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I don't want it to look like the world is black and white. Someone's the one protecting the patients, and someone's the one who's not protecting them. It's not like it's against patients. All I'm saying is that the shot is just headed in the wrong direction. Let me give you an example. I suspect it's in the Consumer Credit Act, where it's clearly written, what all must include a loan ad. Because it used to be abused, too. It just put the interest rate on it. We all know the interest rate could be zero, and then the guy won't pay. So there's got to be an RPSN up there today, the amount of monthly payments, there's got to be how much this guy overpays. And you know how it turned out anyway? That's how it's regulated. And that's how it turned out, and I'm showing it in my lectures - a half-minute commercial, and this information is the five lines when you stop it, the last ten seconds downstairs. I recommend it to everyone. So it doesn't always regulate everything. I agree with what all my previous speakers from the Yes Club have said, but let's get this settled somewhere else, let's get this settled towards the contracting authority. Let him have some responsibilities. I can't imagine the practice that whoever's spreading the commercial can go into the guts. He can check if the contracting authority has complied with all legal requirements, yes. But he can't go into the guts to see if it's you or the elements. If I set another example, don't let it be just about finances. If I buy a car based on advertising, when I'm told it's safest, and then something happens to me, then I can't make excuses for buying the car based on advertising, and I thought it was the safest car on the market. In other words, I understand the positive intention, I have nothing against consumers and clients, of course, but let's deal with it in the right direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u25	[[He's coming in.]] Mr. Ambassador, two minutes have passed... There. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. We will continue, with another factual remark from Mr Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Professor Vyzula, with heartache, Rosť, but I cannot agree. And I would like to say to Mr Nacher, by the President, that I fully agree with him. And I will say very briefly the reason. You all know the Wobenzym ad. I would very much appreciate it if we could get together with the doctors we're here and agree whether it's misleading advertising or not misleading advertising. I can't believe we're gonna make it. I'm a little worried that we're going to have completely different opinions, and some of us are very aggressive. I don't mind at all if the media are responsible for not publishing misleading advertising or that the advertising must not be any harmful patient if I find out who the authority will decide. I can tell you in advance that it won't be the Committees of Professional Companies, because they won't agree either. If they'd agreed, we'd already had our pediatrics testimonials ready. I can tell you in advance it won't be the Czech Medical Society, it won't be agreed either. And I can tell you in advance that it's not gonna be some council of senior experts and professors, because it's not gonna work out anything for you anymore. This means, of course, that it can theoretically be a godly purpose, but practically unrealistic. And finally, I'd ask a question, even if I have no idea who, I'm gonna put him in a diaper. During the time that there's been a drug ad in the media, there was at least one complaint, a complaint against the manufacturer of the medical device, that his advertising was misleading, or are we talking about something that could hypothetically happen? I'd be very interested. Because I consider many of those pharmaceutical ads I see on TV to be a line of misleading ads, a line of dental ads for how healthy my teeth will be, and I'll never have to see a doctor. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u27	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and we will continue with another factual remark, the last so far, Mr Stanislav Berkovec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good day to you. Allow me to respond very briefly to my colleague Patrik Nacher. Here is, pretty please, the need to distinguish between the creation and quality of advertising and the parameters of advertising, which are clearly defined by the press law and by a set of laws and regulations at all, and the quality and parameters of the product. And the operator who broadcasts the commercial or presents it, whether in radio broadcasts or in printed advertising, cannot control the quality of the product as an expert, as a guarantor. I will set an example that is close to all of us. Some car manufacturers make great cars, have great parameters, and then it is found that there was a manufacturing defect on the airbag, and so-called. a summoning event. That's common today. How in God's name can the operator of the broadcast and the advertiser find out that they were low-quality airbags? He can't. So please, let's not mix these two things up. It is a pity that this cannot be a topic for the electoral, i.e. the so-called. an election, a media committee, because I think it would belong to him. But please, let's not mix these two things up. We are concerned with consumer protection. I think Patrik's made that very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr Berkovc, for keeping time on the point of fact. That was the last point of fact. We still have an unfinished general debate, but outside the debate, the rapporteur's request was made in his report to shorten the deadline. That must be the case in the debate. I ask whether the rapporteur wants to say this now or in detail in the debate. [[The rapporteur, Mr Vyzula, wants in detail.]] Okay, so I can end the general debate if no one signs up for it. I am ending the general debate. I am opening the debate in detail. Mr. Dvořák is the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I want to sign up with an amendment to the Government Drug Act, House document 207. This again concerns the Act on Electric Recipe, in principle, that it is optional. The more detailed justification is then given directly in the House document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u31	I thank Mr Dvořák. I have a point of fact here. Please take precedence, but we are aware that the factual point serves to respond to the speeches, not to move the entries in the debate. So, Mr. Petr Třešňák, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u32	Have a nice noon now. I will try to use the factual one, but I really want to respond mainly to Mr Dvořák, because we as pirát have always argued that eRecept should not be mandatory and that there really must be an electronisation of health by some kind of natural development. But with this counterproposal, I'm missing a kind of natural motivator. So I don't really know whether to vote in favour or against such a counterproposal. And maybe we should talk about if we really - and I take that step a lot of years back - we should be e-crisis optional, what the positive motivators should be, in order for it to happen in the same time. And I'm sorry, I'm gonna use the time to make a point, and I might even discuss the debate back to the general debate and ask the Minister afterwards, I'm not gonna put it off for the afternoon interpellation, if it's going to be submitted by the Ministry and the SÚKL some timetable for the implementation of the other functions that we are talking about - I believe Mr Kaňkovský mentioned, etc. Thank you. Did I fit in time? He came in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now duly signed up in a detailed debate by Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. I will no longer delay it, but I will take advantage of the fact that I would apply to the amendment, the content of which I explained in the general debate, and I refer to document 228, which is the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u35	Thank you. The rapporteur is reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I am applying to the proposal that I have made here, and that is that we vote to shorten the term of the guarantee committee's negotiations to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u37	Okay, thank you, marked. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? [[Yes.]] Please. And then, the rapporteur, too, the final word. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have actually been several questions. I'll try to answer everyone. If I forget one, I am, of course, prepared to answer my colleagues in person or in writing if they send me their question. With regard to the number of electronic recipes at all, I have commissioned the State Institute for Drug Control to be as transparent as possible, so at www.epreskripce.cz statistics on the number of prescribed and issued electronic recipes are published daily. Each of you can see how many electronic recipes have been prescribed every day. It is about 200,000 electronic recipes per day that are prescribed. It is published a little less, of course, there is some delay when it comes to issuing recipes in pharmacies. Overall, the proportion of all the recipes, including paperwork, is somewhere around 70 percent, but according to the data we have, the number is increasing. So in this respect, I think that the proportion is quite significant, and we see that the system is working. I'm not worried about some collapse if we do, and of course we're never gonna get to 100 percent, but we're really gonna get close to maybe 90 percent sometime. Clearly, not all recipes will be prescribed electronically, because there are really exceptions. Professor Válek spoke of the recipes the doctor prescribes for himself or his family members. There is an exception that in such a case the recipe can and writes in standard form on a paper recipe. It's listed in the implementing decree. There are other exceptions. This is one of them. Of course, there are exceptions to seeing a doctor in a patient's home environment. Of course, so that a doctor doesn't have to carry a computer and a printer, which would be absurd, so even in this case he can write a paper recipe. And there are other exceptions, but now I answer what Professor Válek asked. As far as GDPR is concerned, the system is fully in line with this Regulation, so it meets the GDPR parameters. Even the central repository of electronic recipes is designated as a critical state information system under the Cyber Security Act, so there is a really higher guarantee of data security. Other matters related to the timetable, respectively. other functions - Mr. Třešňák asked. I said, and that's one of the reasons, of course, why I also proposed to postpone the sanctions, is that the recipe doesn't actually meet everything that was expected of him in the sense of the functions. Probably the basic one, which is mainly interested in doctors and, of course, patients, is the so-called drug record, which means the possibility of sharing data on the prescription of drugs between individual drug providers. The current electronic recipe already allows the patient to actually follow all the recipes that have been prescribed to him. There is a mobile app on the phone, there is a web application where, after obtaining login data, everyone can see what all the recipes have been prescribed to him, which I think is quite an advantage because there is no such database available in the current paper recipe system. Similarly, a doctor who prescribes medications to patients may also look at all the recipes he prescribes. So there's already a database in this direction. But the electronic recipe doesn't know how to share the data, which means that another doctor should look at the recipes prescribed by another doctor. And there, of course, the point is to avoid any duplication of prescription medications or any undesirable drug interactions that may harm the patient's health, not to take his life. Unfortunately, such cases are happening. I entered the drug record as soon as I was in office, preparing it. To do this again, we need to change the law on medicines, make an amendment to the law on medicines. There's no other way to do this. So a working group has been set up with representatives of the professional public. We will also invite representatives of the Office for Personal Data Protection, because of course it is also a question of personal data protection. And the timetable is like that, and we have a legislative plan that the amendment should go to the government by May - the Legislative Council of the Government, and if everything goes well, I hope that by the end of the year, the law could be passed so that the pharmaceutical record is functional 1. 1. 2019. As for the other features, it's probably gonna take a little longer. It was said here by Professor Válek on the issue of opioid drugs, which today must be prescribed on paper still on so-called. recipes with blue stripe. That's what we want to deal with. But I think it's probably everyone's primary interest, and it's still accented, it's the drug record. Although I think the current system has a purpose. There was still a question of the meaning of the electronic recipe, that it is still printed on paper and the like. On the other hand, today it is fully possible to prescribe a recipe electronically in the form of standard text or e-mail, nor does it require any smartphone. It's just some code of numbers and letters that will just come to the patient if he asks the doctor to do it, and then the drug is given to him for that code. In principle, all pharmacies are involved in the system today, namely 2 683 pharmacies, which are virtually all of them, so all pharmacies today accept and have to accept electronic recipes. As for the things that have been mentioned and relating to the slow response, and that is what Mr Kasal said, there is really no fault, or virtually. the problem is not on the side of the central repository. Of course, such cases can be. I had it pulled out. For example, yesterday, some 195,000 electronic recipes were prescribed, of which 142 were more than 10 seconds, which is 0.07%. Responses greater than 6 seconds were 0.56%. This means, in fact, the cases where the response is any longer, which means in the order of really a few seconds, is a completely marginal amount. Indeed, the problem will be rather on the side of the software, on the side of internet connection, and not according to those data from the central repository of electronic recipes on the side of the system itself. I hope I answered all the basic questions. If not, I am, of course, prepared, as I said, to reply in person or in writing if you are interested. Anyway, I think that the electronic recipe has a purpose, that the obligation has a purpose, because if we're doing so-called. The drug record and we want to have it, and we want to share the data, so the only point is when all the doctors are involved. Just if the patient is prescribed a drug for a paper prescription, the drug will not be registered in the drug record, and the patient will go to another doctor who prescribes a medicine that is needed in an undesirable interaction with the previous drug, and it will not be precisely because the previous drug is prescribed on paper, so the system is losing its sense. So the system makes sense when all the doctors are actually involved and prescribed electronically, the drugs will be registered like this. It is in favour of patients, in favour of quality care, safe care for patients. And we're really going to do our best to make it easier for the doctors. [[12.20 hours]] There's one more thing I'd like to mention. We have prepared large awareness events in individual regions. Every month we want to visit a region where we will actually do seminars for doctors. We have also reached the relevant professional association of practitioners, practitioners for children and adolescents, the Czech Medical Chamber. We want to target doctors who are in the country who are elderly. We really want to make it as easy for them, registration, system control, really explain it to them. We are really doing our utmost in cooperation with the State Institute for Drug Control. I hope that in a year's time, we will be able to fine-tune the system so that it works and is in favour of both doctors and, above all, patients. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u39	I thank the Minister for his final word. I'm just warning him if he comes forward one more time to open the debate. Now, the rapporteur's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Just from the position of rapporteur very briefly, what was the benefit of this second reading for the amendment to the Act on Medicines. Five speakers and several factual remarks were made in the general debate. In a detailed debate, two other amendments by Mr Dvořák and Mr Nacher were read and a proposal was made to shorten the deadline for the next seven days. I've read the resolution, so I think we've come to terms with this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-001-001.u41	Thank you for the final words of the rapporteur. Since there was no proposal that we would vote on at second reading, I can end the second reading. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. [[The rapporteur's disagreeable position.]] Except for the time limit for shortening. So before I close this point, we're going to vote on a seven-day deadline, but I'm going to put you all out of business. I will make sure that those who are interested in deciding on this proposal can attend. Please log in with your ID cards. [[There's still a lot of restlessness in the room!]] We'll decide on a seven-day reduction in the vote order number 19, which I'll start when it's a little quiet here. I've started voting order number 19. I'm asking, who's in favor of shortening the deadline? [[Voices from the O.R.: There is no vote.]] I'm gonna check you out one more time and apply for a new registration because I didn't make it. One more time. Please log in with your ID cards. Initiating serial number 19 voting, I ask who is in favour of shortening the deadline. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 19 of 140 for 140, or all votes have been approved to shorten the deadline. Now it is possible for us to end the point. I'm done with point number one. 1. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Before we continue, I am still saying an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Robert Plaga, Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Environment are present. According to the program, we're really gonna start with the point that's his. It's...
