ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-010-037.u1	37. Government draft law on the processing of personal data / House printing 138/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 We are at first reading, we interrupted the discussion of this point before the midday break. I merely recall for the further course of the hearing that the veto was brought against the hearing pursuant to § 90 para. 2. I ask that the Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar take the position at the rapporteur's table and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Marek Benda, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The Minister is here, so we can proceed properly. We were finished when the general debate was closed, so I ask both the Minister's appellant and the rapporteur's rapporteur if they are interested in the final words. Yes, the Minister will speak first with the final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-010-037.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now, within a short period of time, try to answer some of the questions that have been raised in the debate and in the course of a number of these contributions. I will take this one step at a time, as I have noted, and I will speak in substance to the specific provisions that have been mentioned here. The question of the exception for the private sector, which was referred to by the rapporteur, Mr Benda, is, of course, the subject of Article 11 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 and the exception, of course, is there. As far as other matters are concerned, of course, the police in a live case cannot confirm, for example, the deployment of an operational wiretap technique. The police's answer to this must be general. The question is, how is she conceived? It's hard to say that the state authority or the police are lying. It's just set like this from a higher state interest point of view. As far as the prosecutors are concerned, the judicial authority is already independent from the outset under the law on international cooperation in criminal matters, and this independence must be protected as much as possible in a democratic establishment. [[15.10 hours]] The demand for a small imposition of sanctions, fines that would possibly address infringements of this regulation, regulates and addresses the provisions of Section 63 of our proposal. Of course, the government perceives that the protection of personal data affects a large majority of society's lives. Some of the rules are new, and the practice will have to stabilize. Therefore, the Government has proposed this provision and will allow the Office for Personal Data Protection not to conduct any infringement proceedings at all when, for example, the controller does so. An error of negligence, and he's willing to correct it. This should help to calm the concerns that are spreading. Moreover, this applies to both private and public personal data controllers. We were talking about the Personal Data Protection Office model. The current model of inspectors is not very functional and in no way, according to the discussions with the European Commission, it will withstand the demands of the European Union. As far as specific things are concerned about the structure itself, we certainly are not opposed to some proposals that might be able to do this here. Of course, I have already talked about sanctions by law. The fines are further regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. The legal order of the Czech Republic is not changing here in this area. There are currently sanctions in the legal order, the maximum of which is CZK 10 million, but if I were to talk about some specific cases, I can tell you that the maximum amount received by the large municipality was only tens of thousands of crowns. As far as sanctions and government proposals are concerned, as a matter of fact, the Ministry of the Interior has proposed the imposition of these sanctions, but, of course, this proposal has not been passed, and we can once again have a debate on this issue and talk about imposing sanctions on small municipalities, but, as I have already mentioned, our legal order certainly does not know or cannot choose or free a particular group that would be exempted from sanctions. It would be unsystemic, it would be discriminatory. Specifically, if I am to talk about other questions, media outputs or the processing of personal data, we are in the provisions of Sections 11 to 21 in the case of works of art or literature and activities, so, of course, here too, there are far-reaching exceptions from GDPR. A part of the media, however, may have some concerns about the specific ignorance of the matter, but this adjustment was proposed after a number of discussions with representatives of the media sphere. Our aim is to maintain the balance of constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms, i.e. protection of privacy on the one hand and freedom of expression on the other. That is why really fundamental and far-reaching exceptions from GDPR are proposed. We also respect partial adjustment in sectoral regulations, press law, resource protection, the right to reply. In this context, I would like to ask you and reiterate that the philosophy of this regulation is indeed an increase in the right to the protection of personal data from large collectors and processors of personal data. You know very well how many such cases are involved in the sale, or in the case of the sale. theft of personal data was. I would very much like to prevent what happened in the past period, and I would call it a trade in fear, when individual subjects, of course, of the fear that was artificially created, bought or bought process analyses and were afraid of this here. The question, of course, can always be greater, but the Ministry of the Interior has been working hard in cooperation with other departments since last year on the campaign as regards the entry into force of GDPR. Workshops, training, several websites, a number of meetings with village representatives. Finally, I would sum up what GDPR should bring us. Anyway, it should strengthen everyone's right to handle their personal data. It should now bring the so-called right. portability. If you put a photograph on one social network, it can be transferred to another. The emphasis on the technical security of personal data is increased. When data leaks, businesses or authorities must report this fact to the Office of Personal Data. On the other hand, the obligation to report to the Office for Personal Data Protection to process this data is abolished, so there will also be some simplification of course. The rules on data protection throughout the European Union will also be unified. The competences of the Offices for Personal Data Protection throughout the European Union are unified. The so-called "circumstances' shall be introduced. Officer. Those who make a living with personal data will have to have an officer. The age for online consent is being introduced. The Government of the Czech Republic has proposed 15 years of age for this approval. The emphasis will be placed on the real risk - who performs small processing and does not have sensitive data, does not have as many responsibilities as for example. hospital. As for the small businessmen mentioned, of course, the rules here do not change so much, as they have been set up in accordance with Act 101 for the protection of personal data. All we're going to do is put emphasis on whether it's in paper or notebook form, personal data will be logged, so the notebook will have to be locked in the closet. If it is on the computer, the computer, where the personal data are, must have a password. And it's not, let's say, that kind of pressure for something really revolutionary to come. I see in this a certain evolution, unification and, above all, the protection of personal data from large and national and international corporations that process personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-010-037.u3	Thank you. The rapporteur's final statement. Mr. Benda. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-010-037.u4	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I will no longer respond to the applicant's final words. I think that he is wrong in most matters, but I hope that we will be able to resolve that in committee meetings. The debate was indeed rich, it turns out that this is a fundamental problem. It turns out that there is some ignorance about what a European regulation is and what a European directive is, and sometimes it is mixed together, sometimes even wrong terms are used. However, I believe that, in time, we will all learn this, and I believe that the bill will succeed in ordering the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. Furthermore, as other committees, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Elections and the Committee on Economic Affairs was proposed and no shortening of the deadline was proposed. So much for my brief intelligence report to conclude.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-010-037.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Nor has it been proposed that the motion submitted be returned or rejected, so that we can deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. Before we proceed to the vote, I will introduce you to Mr Hnilička's apology from 14.30 to 15.30 hours for work reasons. [[15.20 hours]] The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Would someone else please suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the motion being made... [[The noise in the hall towards Mr Bláh.]] Are you applying for the resignation of all Members? Yes? [[An unintelligible answer from the scene.]] Are you suggesting another committee as a guarantee committee? No, okay. Then I can't give you a word and I won't give you a word. There's a checkout request. So I'll check you all out, sign up again with your I.D. cards. To be clear after this brief interruption, I would remind you that we are now voting that this proposal will be ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 91, 143 Members signed in for 142, versus 1. The motion was accepted. The Guarantee Committee for the discussion of this proposal is therefore a constitutionally legal committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Committee on Petitions as a further committee where this proposal will be discussed. I therefore begin the vote on bringing this proposal to the Committee on Petitions. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 92, 147 Members registered, for 130, against 5. The motion was accepted. The next committee to discuss this proposal is the Committee on Petitions. I am now saying that the following proposals have been made in the debate: Mrs Adámková has proposed to discuss the Committee on Health, Mr Munzar to the Economic Committee, and Mr Nacher has also proposed an election committee for discussion. I'm asking, who else is applying to the committee's proposal? Mrs Vildumetzová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-010-037.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a commandment to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-010-037.u7	Yes, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Is Mr Bláha's application still valid or is it no longer valid? It's been said, okay. Is there anyone else who is proposing one of the other committees at this time? It's not. So we will vote gradually on the proposals that have been made. First, we will vote on the commandment of the Health Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 93, 151 Members registered, for 139, versus 2. The motion was accepted. The next committee on which we will vote is the Economic Committee. Who is in favour of ordering the Economic Committee to be discussed? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 94, 152 Members registered, for 133, against 4. The motion was accepted. Another committee proposed in the general debate is the Election Committee. I therefore initiate the vote on the commandment to the electoral committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 95, registered by 151 Members, for 115, against 16. The motion was accepted. And the last proposal that has been made is that the proposal put forward be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 96, 152 Members registered, for 147, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Health, the Economic Committee, the Election Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Since there was no proposal to shorten or extend the deadline in the general debate, I am ending this point. Opening point
