ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-010-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 10th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'll ask that we settle in our seats. This meeting is festive and the only point is the presentation of the President of the House of Representatives of the United States of America, Mr Paul Ryan. And now, allow me to welcome the President of the House of Representatives of the United States of America, Mr Paul Ryan, among us. I'll ask you to stand up. [[Paul Ryan, accompanied by the Head of the Chamber of Deputies' Office, comes to the speaker's desk, and the MPs welcome him with a long round of applause. Mr. Paul Ryan thanks you for the welcome.]] Thank you, and now, Mr President, I ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-010-01-000-000.u2	[[He speaks English, simultaneous interpreting.]] Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. President of the House, Mr Vondráček, Prime Minister, Mr Babiš, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of this Chamber, it is wonderful to be here in Prague, in this inspiring city of 100 towers. I really want to thank you for calling this extraordinary meeting. I just had lunch with your House President, so I'd like to say thank you. And also condolences, because being president of the House, that's really hard work. But it's worth it for the democracy we have. I know that this is a really rare privilege for a foreign official to speak to this meeting. While I am deeply honored, I also see this as a tribute to a strong friendship between our countries, which share a unique and lasting union in history. This is an extraordinary moment in this story. A hundred years after President Woodrow Wilson collaborated with your first President Tomáš Masaryk in the creation of a separate Czechoslovak Republic. Just as our Declaration of 1776 spoke of an effort to achieve happiness, President Masaryk's Declaration, which was written in Washington, calls on the Czech people to begin an ongoing effort for progress. There was a time when few could imagine meetings like this. In the mid - 1970's, the Chancellor of Western Germany predicted that Western Europe had some 20 or 30 years of democracy left. But today American and Czech military forces are fighting side by side to keep peace in the world. American and Czech companies invest each other in their employees and economies. Countless students, artists and entrepreneurs travel there and back every year. I spoke to the students at Charles University, where there is also a big exchange. And today, the American President of the House stands before you, the President of the House of Representatives speaking before elected representatives of a free and prosperous nation. [[Let's hear it.]] Yes, here I would like to point out that freedom is flourishing, but we should not take this for granted. Our volumes are even deeper than they were in the last century. The Czech Republic is often referred to as the heart of Europe. Similarly, I come from Janesville, Wisconsin, a small factory town in the heart of America. We're raising our kids basically in the same part of the street where I grew up. My great-grandfather James Ryan came all the way from Ireland, sometime in 1850. To date, some 60 cousins and cousins of the Ryan live in Wisconsin, and they all live on a square mile. Wisconsin is a city that was the target of many European migrants in the mid-19th century. De facto most of the first Czech settlers in America came to our state. Many began as farmers and then continued to open their own shops and businesses. Racin, a town I have the honour to represent, was called the Czech Bethlehem. Even the first Czech newspapers published in the United States were Czech. Even the first mayor of Racine was Čech. This effort to achieve something, to try not to stand still, to try to maximize the use of those talents from bůh, is actually the essence of what I call an American idea. It is precisely this view that the conditions in which we were born do not necessarily determine the outcome of your life. These are the beautiful timeless principles, freedom, free enterprise, self-determination, consensus in government - they all give us the ability to set our own way of life. Government or governance is the best way to apply these basic principles to all the problems of today's life. This American idea is a living force that has driven me even in my studies. When I first applied for office, I was 27 and frankly, a lot of people had to take the courage to hire someone so young, so I had to find someone to help me. And that person is with us today. He's our Ambassador Stephen King, we're lucky he's an ambassador here in the Czech Republic. Republic. [[Members applaud the ambassadors at the guest gallery.]] It was 1998 and Stephen came as literally an icon. And I knew I needed someone to help me and give me credibility, and Stephen came, he agreed to be chairman of my campaign, and that gave me great credibility. And I'm sure you also know that he's still my lifelong friend. This man is a true patriot, and he is a true class. It is a real blessing for us to have him as ambassador to America in the Czech Republic. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Just yesterday, we and the Ambassador were walking over our embassy up to the glorieto. The view from there is really beautiful. That's where I handed the ambassador our American flag, which had recently flown over the Capitol to commemorate this 100-year anniversary. You can remember that in more gloomy times, when the Iron Curtain was still dividing your continent, these stars and stripes over the gloriet flowed all the time. It was like an expression of our endless support to the Czech nation and our longing wish that one day our deeply shared values would return. But this republic has not only returned from communism, but with great strength it has also returned to a large extent thanks to the visions of Václav Havel. Every day before I walk up the stairs in my office in the Capitol, I pass the bust of Václav Havel. She was sculpted by a Czech artist who was then forced to go into exile during the Communist government. And Havlův's bust is in the lobby opposite Winston Churchill's bust. I often wonder, when I'm walking by, what do you think these two are talking about? It stands in the space we call Foyer Liberty, and it is basically a tribute to all those who have fought and sacrificed their lives for our guiding principles. Basically, only a playwright Václav Havel, a playwright of his caliber, could come up with this because actually Havel spoke to the United States Congress in 1990, just a few months after he was released from prison. And he said the following: our freedom, our independence and our newly elected democracy, all have been badly redeemed and must not be renounced. On this occasion, it would be wise to recall the words of Václav Havel and his determination. When Havel said that we must not renounce freedom, he certainly knew that there were forces that would try to take us back and drag us back. He knew that there were forces that would try to transform the world into their authoritarian image. [[14.10 hours]] For Czech people, the Russian influence is nothing unknown, whether under the mask of oppression or violent change. Russia has violated international standards by its aggression against our closest allies in Eastern Europe and has been spreading disinformation more secretly, engaging in cyber attacks, affecting democratic elections across Europe, just as it has done in the United States. Russia does not share our interests or our values. What they're trying to do is undermine these values. We need to see what it really means - an attempt to sow a discrepancy between our nations, divide allies and destabilize democratic institutions. We cannot and will not tolerate this. This week, more than 20 countries, including the United States and the Czech Republic, have taken a joint decision to expel Russian diplomats in response to an attack on British soil. Solidarity at the border of freedom is now more important than ever. All nations that once suffered under Soviet domination have common interests - building security and prosperity. And in this work, our two republics are not only allies who are committed to one another to the question of freedom, but are partners and leaders in this community of democracy. Our common values are the basis on which we build stronger, more resilient institutions. One. Our shared commitment to economic growth. A strong economy is essential for spreading freedom and ensuring stability. It is what gives people confidence that they can get a good job, live a good life, and take care of themselves. Of course, faster economic growth will not solve all our problems, but it will make our problems easier to solve. Back to the Czech Republic. You have an economy that is doing extremely well, which is characterised by strong exports and low unemployment. We are very proud that the United States is one of the leading investors. America's leading companies such as AT&T, Honeywell, GE, IBM and Microsoft carry out innovative science and research in cooperation with the Czech Republic. And as I found out today, even one of the oldest Harley-Davidson clubs in the world is based in Prague. [[Let's hear it.]] There is such enormous potential between our two nations. There will be much more opportunities for both Čech and Američan. Two. We work together in the area of security, which is an area where we have a wide range of tools available. Again, the Czech Republic is a perfect example of its neighbours, where NATO's alliance is led, aggressively fighting disinformation, and even supporting sanctions against Russia. In NATO, as our President Trump said, we have demonstrated by our words and actions that we are firmly behind Article 5, which is a commitment to common defence. And this commitment is unwavering. And we also thank you for sharing this commitment. [[Let's hear it.]] Of course, we all made a commitment to spend at least 2 percent of the gross domestic budget on our defense spending. And we are pleased that the Czech Republic already has a concrete plan for achieving this goal in the coming years. We look forward to you taking a slightly larger share of your defense expenses. That is why last week Congress approved and the President signed legislation which increases support for the initiative to deter Russia, which includes the gradual increase of military-equipped divisions in five locations in this continent. We want you to see that America is really committed to a permanent and permanent presence in Europe. The heroism and experience of the Čech are indispensable to us and our allies. We know and appreciate how much you fought us side by side in Iraq and Afghanistan. We're very grateful for that. For your support at the Damascus embassy. [[Let's hear it.]] I would also like to thank you for your contribution to the embassy in Damascus, where you provide critical support to American citizens. You are active and honored members of the global coalition by defeating ISIS. And, of course, we must defeat ISIS. We must do more together to stop this insidious threat. We need all the allies to help greatly by sharing information and seeking sources of extremism. You helped push ISIS on the battlefield, but no one knows better than you what it means for people to come back home and start rebuilding their lives. And your contribution to these missions has greatly strengthened your position in Europe and throughout the world. And I am very encouraged by the discussions that we have had here regarding the further expansion of our cooperation in the field of defence. Three. There are things we do every day to support democracy and human rights. Yesterday I had the opportunity to visit Radio Free Europe and see firsthand the amazing work they do. It was really incredible. You're very lucky, you and we can broadcast here. This is what I would like to remind you that free and transparent media is an essential component of a healthy democracy. We also want to be your partners in supporting heroic efforts by organizations such as the National Foundation for Democracy or the International Republican Institute. As elected legislators, we should never forget how powerful it is to speak for those who cannot speak for themselves. After all, that is why we are here today, because people who have been free and tried to be free have come together for a common goal. Fellow Members, I know democracy is not easy. Coalitions are hard to form. It can be as difficult to maintain democracy as it can be to gain it. He's got his flaws, he's got his flaws. And that's never gonna change. He's got his skeptics. And I'm sure that's never gonna change either. This is indeed an effort for progress. As long as we are imperfect beings as we are, we will always have an imperfect form of governance. But there's always a fearless effort to do things better to move us forward. Our task is essentially to create antibodies for our institutions to be resilient enough to withstand what comes. This is our great moral and political responsibility. In this faith of events, I would like to recall the touching words of President Masaryk's declaration, which he said a century ago: The forces of darkness served the victory of light, the longed-for age of mankind is dawning. We believe in democracy, we believe in freedom, always bigger and bigger... Beautiful words. The time has come to lift our gaze, to rediscover our faith in what we believe in and what we can achieve together in order to achieve mankind's dignity and abilities. America's been here with you for the last 100 years. We'll be with you for the next hundred years. We will always and always be with you. God be with you and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-010-01-000-000.u3	I'm not gonna have it easy right now, I'm gonna keep going, but... Mr President of the House of Representatives, honourable Members, honourable Members, dear guests, allow me to conclude today's festive meeting with a few words. I am very pleased that we had the opportunity to hear Mr Paul Ryan's speech right here in the historic building and in this hall of our Chamber of Deputies, because it is only the third expression of American or Czech politics in the history of our independent country. The first speech took place in 1990 when President Georg Bush, an elder, spoke in the building of the then Federal Assembly, followed by a speech by Václav Havel in the same year to the United States Congress. This is therefore the third speech, and I would like to emphasise the exceptionalness of this sitting and the exceptionality of this moment. The fates of both our countries are closely bound. This year we commemorate and celebrate a hundred years of independent modern state and on this historic event, crucial to us, has the lion's share of the country of our guest, the United States of America. When Woodrow Wilson rejected the manifesto of Emperor Karel I in the autumn of 1918 and said that he would not discuss the federalization of the empire and that he would only negotiate with representatives of the Czechoslovak independent state, he actually acknowledged the Washington Declaration of Independence and legalized Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk and his companions as legal representatives of the emerging state. At the same time, he also rejected the superpower style of the previous negotiations, which was then reflected in the ironic term "about us without us" in our country. And as is my custom lately, it seems, let me quote Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, who said: The states are following the ideals on which they came. The United States was created on the basis of a declaration of independence. Therefore, they can never be anything but a lighthouse of freedom for all who seek freedom. Our path to freedom wasn't that simple. From the hundred years we lived almost half of it in totalitarianism, in non-freedom, and almost a quarter of it in the occupation. Mr President, I think you will agree with me when I say that the defence of freedom is the common responsibility of both our countries and of all of us. With this value, we are united and united by a commitment to helping those less fortunate than we have so far. Today's world is no longer safe. The freedom and values we share are threatened from many sides, and only together do we have a chance to defend them. And if I quote Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, let me quote American politics and quote Ronaldo Reagan, who said: Freedom is never further than one generation from my demise. As I said at the outset, there is probably no better place to choose to celebrate and commemorate the century of our independence and our freedom than this historic building. This is where the memorial plaque is located, on which you can read and on which it is written: In this memorable building of the Earth Assembly of the Czech Kingdom, the revolutionary coup of the anti-Austrian was perfected and the restored state of Czechoslovakia was built. Therefore, I thank Paul Ryan for the opportunity to commemorate this century's struggle for freedom and as a small contribution to this struggle, we have prepared a text entitled Joint Declaration of Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and of the House of Representatives of the United States of America on the 100th anniversary of the renewal of the modern Czechoslovak statehood. Allow me to read the text of this declaration: In this place, where the Czechoslovak National Assembly first met on 14 November 1918 and elected the first President of the Czechoslovak Republic, Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, and on the occasion of the visit of the President of the House of Representatives of the United States of America, Paul D Ryan, we remember that democracy and prosperity of the Czech Republic and the United States of America are the result of efforts, determination, courage, heroism and principles of generations of our citizens longing for freedom and peace. Czechoslovakia was created thanks to the support of the United States Congress and President Woodrow Wilson. It was based on the same basic principles on which the United States of America was founded. We are proud and respectfully commemorating the 100th anniversary of the achievement of Czechoslovak freedom, democracy and peace in Europe, i.e. the values that President Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk formulated in the United States of America in 1918 in the Czechoslovak Declaration of Independence. We do not forget and with satisfaction we note that at the fronts of both world wars and in the resistance Čech and Američan have always joined their forces and did not hesitate to sacrifice their lives to make the world free again and better. For decades, our nations were not going to accept the division of Europe with an iron curtain. The United States of America is bound with the Czech Republic and Europe by thousands of historical, spiritual, economic, political and strategic ties with deep roots that no one could break even in the fateful moments of history. [[14.30 hours]] Together, we believe that freedom, democratic civilization and the equality of our peoples are the basis for developing the legacy and values of our founders with full awareness of co-responsibility, equality and solidarity in Europe, as well as in transatlantic organizations of collective defence and collective security. The legacy of the spiritual fathers of the Czechoslovak-American cooperation, the founder of the Czechoslovak state Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk and President Woodrow Wilson, and their successors represents an important guarantee to us of security, peace, the development of the freedoms of our citizens, the cultivation of the democratic rule of law and thus the further development of friendship between our two states. Thank you for your attention. And now we will proceed to sign this Declaration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-010-01-000-000.u4	I thank the President of the House of Representatives of the United States, Paul Ryan, and the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Radek Vondráček, and I ask that they take over the signing of the Declaration. [[The protocol worker brings the text of the Declaration, which the two Presidents sign. After signature, a joint photograph of the Presidents shall take place. MEPs stand up and clap tempestuously all the time the chairmen leave the hall together.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again I thank the two Presidents for their speech. I conclude the 10th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and remind you that at 15.30 we will meet here at the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 54 Members. The draft agenda for the 11th meeting is: Information from the Prime Minister on administrative proceedings with the Director of GIBS. So I'll meet you here at 15 o'clock for 30 minutes. Thank you.
