ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, hello. Initiating another meeting day of the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, welcome to all of you. I'll ask you to settle down in your seats, sign up with your I.D. cards, or tell me who votes with the spare card. At the moment, I say that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Lenka Dražilová for work reasons, Eva Fialová from 15.30 to 17.00 health reasons, Jan Hrnčíř - working reasons, Tereza Hyťhová - working reasons, Pavel Jelínek - health reasons, Jaroslav Kytýr - working reasons, Jana Levová - family reasons, Ilona Mauritzová - working reasons, Daniel Pawlas within 16 hours - family reasons, Petr Venhoda between 14.30 and 19.00 - working reasons, Veronika Vrecionová - health reasons. Members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - foreign trip, Klára Dostálová within 16 hours due to funeral of the Ministry employee, Robert Plaga for work reasons. Mrs Fialová personally cancels her apology. I'm going to ask you again to take your seats in the O.R. and to listen carefully to what I'm about to read to you. I would like to introduce you to the proposal of the Gremium. We propose to eliminate item 27 of the approved agenda, House press 207, which is a government amendment to the Commercial Corporations Act, first reading. It is also proposed to include points 145 - these are voting points - 146, 147, 148 firmly on Wednesday 19 December 2018 at 12.30. And one more information from the Grémia: paragraph 17 of the approved programme, this is the House press 38, the parliamentary amendment to the Act on property settlement with churches, second reading, has already been discussed on Thursday 13 December at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so please do not apply it. This item is unnegotiable; there is no need to vote on this further. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points for discussion has been given to you on the bench. At this point, I am registering three applications with priority rights, so the first will be Vice-President Okamura, then President Faltýnek, then President Kováčik in that order. [[Noise doesn't stop.]] I'm gonna ask for peace one more time. [[No response.]] Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the SPD movement, to propose an extraordinary point at the meeting of this Chamber of Deputies. I'd like to propose it as the first item in today's meeting, or, if there's a grémia agreement, after those points -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u3	I'll cut you off. I'm really gonna ask you to calm down, the meeting's already started, so please respect that. Whoever's on the phone has to go out on the phone and end the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u4	Or after the points that were agreed on the grémium, because we mainly want that point to be included today. We propose that the item be called Government Information on the UN Global Pact on Refugees and on Migration. It's two pacts. And there was a really scandalous matter here that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, said yesterday that it was against the Czech Republic's support for a global UN pact on refugees. Yet that same day, yesterday, the Czech Republic supported this global UN refugee pact at the UN General Assembly. And that really is an incredible situation. On the Committee on European Affairs, Prime Minister Babiš responded to a request from Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný that the government would have a similar position on the global pact on refugees as on the global pact on migration, i.e. negative. [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] Well, I know the coalition MP doesn't care, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u5	Yes, I understand completely. I strongly ask you to remain calm in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u6	On the contrary, on 16 November, the Government of Andrej Babiš submitted to the Chamber of Deputies document No. 1691, where it announces that the Czech Republic will support the refugee pact. It says: The Czech Republic cannot be criticized for lack of solidarity with people who really need help because the Czech Republic supports the UN Global Pact on Refugees. So, to sum up: yesterday, the Czech Republic supported the United Nations, unlike Hungary and unlike the US, a global refugee pact. But Andrej Babiš said in the media yesterday that he was against it. It was on the news server.cz . So this really is an incredible situation. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš either tries to take the blame before the European Union and some of his voters for accepting a global pact about refugees and making a fool of himself, or that someone has accepted it against their will, or knows absolutely nothing about the issue. Basically, there are only the three variants here, and I'm being told it's not easy. With ČSSD, which has long advocated multiculturalism and mass immigration, and with Deputy MEP Poche, today's foreign minister Mr Petříček, such conduct does not surprise us at all against the interests of the Czech Republic. The whole confusion either proves that Andrej Babiš is also opinionally like ČSSD, i.e. pro-migration, or does not know. You can choose. Both are trivial for the Czech Republic. Let me zoom in on what the United Nations Global Pact on Refugees, which yesterday supported the Czech Republic on behalf of the Government of Andrej Babiš at the UN General Assembly. This global refugee pact de facto introduces global refugee quotas. Hungary's Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó - and Hungary did not support this pact - states and said that this UN Global Pact on Refugees opens the back door for those who cannot come through the front door. In particular, it includes mechanisms for a more efficient, predictable and fairer international response to a situation characterised by a large number of refugees. It offers international expansion of support or activation of measures for fairer and more predictable burden-sharing and accountability. [[A silence for constant noise.]] Then I will support you, because I can't hear myself anymore. [[The President is ringing the bell.]] I must say that, therefore, the fact that the government coalition, the ANO and the CSSD movement are noisy and does not want to allow me to be heard on such a serious matter is evidence of your position. Don't be mad at me. Furthermore, I would say that the global refugee pact will also allow for an extended approach to resettlement and other solutions in third countries. Moreover, this pact builds a return policy based solely on voluntary repatriations, including for the countries of origin of refugees. And last but not least, this pact has an ambition to strive for reactions - and I quote - "reactions on refugee movements to take into account gender, age, and diversity issues at all times." End of quote. So it has the same things in it that the Istanbul Treaty contains. Yes, it is the Istanbul Convention, with which the Government and the Government Council, which is Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, even last month, adopted a resolution that they wanted us to ratify the Istanbul Convention urgently in the Chamber of Deputies. Yes, they put the word "quickly" in there. And for us, I say that the SPD is completely unacceptable. We will never vote for the Istanbul Convention. That means we're rolling around because of the government of Andrej Babiš one by one. So if anyone thought that Andrej Babiš and the government of YES and CSSD were fighting mass immigration with KSČM support, then this fact, I think, definitely led all citizens out of error. [[14.10 hours]] And let's get back to the global migration pact. This is the second pact that Andrej Babiš said to withdraw from him in November for great media attention. Yes, he was very clear about the global refugee pact, which is what I'm quoting here that the government will support him. They supported him yesterday at the General Assembly, we disagree, but let's go back to the global migration pact, that's the second pact where the government of Andrej Babiš, here in the Chamber of Deputies, has declared that it is rejecting him. And yesterday, we found out another scandalous thing. Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček did not announce this at the UN that the Czech Republic rejected him. So this is another point for this, the point I proposed is the Government Report on the UN Global Pact on Refugees and the Global Pact on Migration, because yesterday we learned that in the UN the Czech Republic does not reject this migration pact, even though it was presented by Andrej Babiš and it was also on the front pages of all Czech media, and even boasted about it abroad, and therefore the government is painting the citizens, clearly painting that the migration pact no longer applies to us. At the same time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, virtually. Until yesterday Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček - I do not know what the situation is today, so we ask for an explanation - he did not actually announce the Czech position to the UN. Well, that's another completely scandalous matter, I think. So either the government is lying to the citizens or it doesn't work. One or the other. As I said at the outset, this same government also supports the UN Global Pact on Refugees. I really consider this to be a nice setback on the interests of Czech citizens and on Czech national interests. We must, of course, stop at the moment why the Prime Minister is saying something completely different than what is actually being voted before it is actually taking place, even before he has actually announced to the Chamber of Deputies here. The refugee pact, as I said, has in it - that's the one that agreed with the government yesterday, virtually. They also agreed with him at the UN General Assembly, in line with what Andrej Babiš said in the House of Deputies, on the European Committee, but yesterday he said something different in the media, as I said, contains similar things to the monstrous Istanbul Treaty. It's a bare fact that the SPD here for the first time basically pointed out the fact that there are two pacts. That it's not just one, that it's a pact of two. Only on this basis did Prime Minister Babiš become interested in the matter, which is also evidence of the professionalism of his government and especially his foreign minister Petříček for ČSSD. And I must say that this is really such a serious thing that happens here that Andrej Babiš is saying something else in the media in such a serious pact, and somehow it is voted that we would really - I wanted to ask all of you, and a representative of the government coalition, because this case will undoubtedly continue and it is already spreading throughout the Czech Republic to support our proposal to include this point in order to give space to government and government representatives - is there also Minister Petříček, who we do not see so often here, but here he is, so I would also like to ask Minister Petříček, who stands behind me, I assume that you are willing to comment? [[He's turning to the Foreign Minister.]] So he says if it's the House's wish, Minister Petříček will say so. It's the only way he's gonna express himself. So I would also ask you, on behalf of the citizens, to support you both for the ČSSD and for the YES movement, so that we can discuss this subject. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Well, maybe I should just point out that I was a little disappointed in the government's position on Wednesday, when the government was discussing a proposal from the SPD pen to ban Islamic cover-up in the Czech Republic. It is also linked to migration, with global pacts. It's a similar connection. And to my surprise, although our bill is basically written according to the Austrian and Danish model and similar arrangements apply in France, it applies in Latvia, it applies in other Western countries, in Switzerland in a certain canton and gradually those countries accept it, last year Austria, this year Denmark, so the government did not give a positive opinion. The government has taken a neutral position on this. That means the government is essentially refusing to fight Islamic extremism. I am, of course, glad that this position was at least neutral, which means that the government coalition has not rejected us and that it is willing to discuss it on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but I think that we really should approach these global pacts and to prevent illegal migration in order to set up the mechanisms, just as Hungary and, for example, the United States and some other countries have done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u7	I'm gonna interrupt you one more time. I know you haven't seen each other for a while, dear colleagues, and you've come to talk, but if you need to talk, do so in the lobby. Indeed, it is almost impossible to hear the speaker, and he has a rather distinctive voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u8	We're getting it by the so-called salami method here, which means both of these pacts, the Istanbul Convention, attempts to revise EU asylum rules, which means Dublin IV, we have this ban on covering, etc. I think we should really face it. Therefore, I ask you once again to support me and I propose that we vote on this inclusion several times in the sense that if there are points from Gremia, I propose that first of all, if this does not pass as a first point, then I propose that it be voted, that it be after the points that are included under the agreement of the Gremia, or after other fixed points that are outside the subject, but let us place it. We don't have that many points that should be placed. Let's put this in place and let's discuss it and let's do the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, as we did together at Marrakesh in June, as we did together in January at Dublin, let's agree on some text of the resolution, where we will actually commit the government to reject the global refugee pact, so that Andrej Babiš and his government will actually send a position to the UN that we also reject the global immigration pact, so that we can really have a clean table here and assure Czech citizens that this is the case. It is a bit trivial that we have to make sure of this form, because normally one would rely on what the Prime Minister says in the media, and that actions will not differ from words, but unfortunately, the situation is like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u9	Thank you. I confess that I am unable to say from my mind which fixed points are from the Gremium or even from the Organizing Committee. This has been listed last time, do we understand each other? Today, there are fixed points. I'll see your proposal as an alternative after the fixed points. Next up, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is true that we have no fixed points, that we have a block of first reading in front of us, as they are listed on the agenda. I have tried to get support for some of our joint proposals, along with my colleague Chvojka. We didn't succeed when we wanted to put some new things on the show that's on the invitation, so I'd like to put the first nine points firmly today, so that I don't mess with it, so I'll read it all, just in case, my particular proposal: As the first point number 21, it's there, it's the first reading of the EET Act, House press 205, item 11, House press 203, residence of foreigners, second reading, this item was not on the original programme, item number 22, postal services, first reading, item number 23, internal administration, first reading, item number 24, contract collection, first reading, item number 25, nomination law, first reading, item number 26, intelligence, first reading, item number 35, sickness insurance, first reading, he is also inserted there newly item number 13 as the last fixed item, this is the register of contracts, the law on free access to information, second reading. In this way, I suggest we line up the points at the beginning of today's meeting. I'll pass it on to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u11	Thank you for the written copy, it will be of use to me. Another with priority rights, President Kováčik, then President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I will try to take a helpful step so that those things that still have deadlines this year or need to be given priority attention to them, so I will try to create at least part of the space by proposing that we exclude item 4, the government bill amending Act No. 226/2013 Coll., on the marketing of timber and timber products, and so on, and so on, House print 332, first reading, with the creation of a space for discussion of those things that cannot be overly delayed, and at the same time creating a space for it, following the situation that is now on the wood market and at all in forestry and woodworking, so that space can be created for further discussion even before the introduction of the law at first reading. We expect it to take place in January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u13	Thank you. Another one with priority rights, President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to propose minor additions following President Faltýnek's proposal, on the ground that President Faltýnek proposed the negotiation of the Treaty Register Act, I think as point 13 in the rather long list he read here. However, it happens to us repeatedly here that although the proposal, House Press 50, the register of contracts, is included on the agenda, we will never get to it, because there are points ahead of it, where there is a very long debate. So I dare to make an additional suggestion. If President Faltýnek's proposal to include paragraph 13, the register of contracts, as he has read it, goes through so that his firm inclusion at 18.30 today, so that we can actually discuss the second reading, where it is only about loading amendments, and avoid any possible claims that this is merely delaying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u15	Thank you. At this point, I've given room to all those who have signed up with priority rights. And now, with no prior rights, Mrs Černochová has submitted her first application. Your five minutes, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you to include a new item on the agenda for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, an item entitled Information of the Government on the deployment of the army of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic, for today's 16th hour or for this Friday 21 December 2018 as the first item of the meeting. What makes me say that? On December 12, 2018, I read an article entitled Šlachta customs officers used military specialists from Prostějov to follow, somebody broke the law. The text states, among other things, that the Customs Administration used several persons suspected of organizing and managing crime in June 2018 by members of the 601. group of special forces from Prostějov, i.e. members of the Army of the Czech Republic. According to that article, the Ministry of Defence requested the provision of soldiers for monitoring under ongoing criminal proceedings, stating: The aim of monitoring interest and objects is to identify information that will lead to the provision of persons involved in organizing or direct criminal activity. When they found that there might be a problem with the violation of the law, there is a problem with the violation of the law, so this request for cooperation in the action was said to have eventually been transformed into an exercise in order to partially comply with the legal order of the Czech Republic, but in the opinion of the lawyers it did not happen anyway, it could not be healed anyway and it really is very far behind the edge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u17	I'll ask for peace in the ranks of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u18	Thank you. So if an army has been used to track the civilian population - ladies and gentlemen, you hear well - it should be known about this legislature. Not only are we faced with the issue of the legality of such a commitment, but it is also a fundamental matter of deploying an army on our territory within the framework of criminal proceedings to be issued as a mere exercise. Such a course is absolutely scandalous, and the government should explain it to us. I would like to point out that I have intersected both Minister Metnar and Minister Schillerová on this matter. Although Minister Metnar was not in the position of Minister of Defence at the time, he was in the position of Minister of Interior at the time, Mrs Šlechtová was in the position of Minister of Defence, so there was indeed a violation of the law. And I would like to know the opinion of the members of the Government of the Czech Republic if they find it standard to send members of the Special Forces 601. group from Prostějov to the civilian population.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u19	Thank you. Next is Mr Lukáš Bartoň. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For several months, honourable Members, I have been trying to place and discuss paragraph 192 firmly, and this is a check of resolution 66 on the salary of teachers. I'd like to ask you for a solid assignment this time. It has already been firmly ranked once, unfortunately it has not been discussed. I will remind you that this is a resolution that was adopted on last year's budget, so on budget 2017. If the control of this resolution is to have a proper sense, then it would be appropriate to discuss this control before we go into the next budget, where we will also have some other accompanying resolutions. This resolution, which concerned not only the salaries of teachers, was adopted on the last budget, as I said, and it would be good to discuss it today, i.e. before tomorrow. Therefore, I propose that we include him in today's negotiations after the points already included. I'll be more specific. These are two parts of this resolution that are good to discuss, and that is that the Chamber of Deputies approved almost unanimously and recommended that the government increase the salaries of teachers from 1 September onwards. That, as we know, has not happened. We should insist that the government give us some information about why it didn't happen. And we should stand up to whether we insist that teachers' salaries continue to increase to 130 percent of the average wage, which was in the original resolution, or whether we should stand up to it and say that we are in agreement with the government and that we are no longer insisting on it. That is exactly what the proposed resolution on this point is, which I have already sent to the club presidents on 13 November 2018. And so, either we insist on our original resolution or we rethink it and we do not insist on it. I will add that this resolution, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, is in line with the Government's programming statement, so it is not to be feared. And I firmly believe that government Members will also support the review of this resolution before the budget is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u21	Thank you, too. Next up, I'll ask Mr. Vít Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u22	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The onset of winter weather last week confirmed the concerns of experts and lay public that the delays in the reconstruction of D1 in the section between the 91st and 105th kilometers in the vicinity of Větrný Jeníkov can cause traffic collapse in both narrowed directions. Unfortunately, the real situation has surpassed the blackest scenarios since the beginning of last week. Since Monday of last week, dangerous situations have accumulated in the said section and everything has culminated on Wednesday 12 December, when the afternoon hours and then throughout the night have been formed in both directions of the column over 30 kilometers. The combination of narrowed roads, snowfalls, fast crippling roads and incorrect behaviour of some truck drivers caused calamity when several thousand drivers and other passengers waited in both directions in the dark and frost, not only from passenger cars, trucks, but also from a number of buses. Most waiting people lacked any further information on how long they would wait, lacked fluids, food, and plenty of fuel. Many of the waitings with increasing waiting time were panicking. I can document this by several phone calls and text messages that came to me during the evening time when my friends asked for help because after hours of freezing without information, they didn't know what to do, and they didn't know how long the situation would last. Among other things, it also involved a bus with 56 children, who had already had six hours of waiting around 10:00 p.m., and despite all the efforts made subsequently by firemen and other components of the integrated rescue system, they got home in more than six hours. And it should be pointed out that, as it turned out later, buses not only with children cost more in the motorcades. And, of course, there were also several thousand people waiting in cars. There is no need to stress that the situation is very complicated for a healthy adult, but far more risky for both children and seniors. Please try to put ourselves in this situation as children, teachers, but also other passengers who have been standing there for hours in the dark on the freeway without a chance of getting out of here during the night. And let us also try to put ourselves in the mood of parents who were at home waiting for their children, and they did not have information about when their children would return home. We could probably talk here for a few hours about the particular situations that those people were experiencing. In my opinion, this is an incredible gamble, which has turned into the laxity of the companies that repair the section. Yes, this is how the situation is presented by the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, as well as by the Ministry of Transport and ŘSD for a long time commented and dealt with. In my opinion, it dealt with quotes. I mean, in style, "We can't do anything, but we're gonna give the companies a fat ticket. We will punish the company and hope that winter will not come this season in the Highlands." That was the tactics of the Ministry of Transport and the ŘSD. Doesn't that sound incredible? Yes, but that was the reality. And even though in the last few days the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways are already trying to resolve the situation in some way and claims to solve it, it is necessary to ask questions. It is important to ask why the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways have committed this incredible gambling with human health and human lives at all. How could these institutions allow a section of 14 kilometres in both directions to remain narrow in the climate's most risky section of the D1 motorway, so that winter technology cannot correctly pass through there? Who is responsible for the situation, and what responsibility does the Ministry of Transport give? All these questions certainly deserve answers. But the crucial thing at the moment is when the high risk D1 will be put into a state to reduce the risk of similar calamity that has occurred in the past days. Therefore, for the KDU-ČSL club, I propose a new point in this meeting called the Failure of the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways during the repair of the D1 motorway. I firmly believe, my dear colleagues, that you will support the inclusion of this point in order, first, to hear information about the reasons, but above all, about what the Ministry of Transport has prepared so that the situation does not recur. Because the situation can happen again in days, weeks tops. I firmly believe that you will support us on this point, and I would like this point to be included today as the first point, or already after the fixed points, alternatively this Thursday at 11 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u23	Thank you. Mr. Lukáš Kolářík is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Government, colleagues and colleagues, I will be brief. I would like to ask you for a solid inclusion of item 82, it is the House press 295, the amendment to the order of execution, today as the first point, or for other items already included. [[The President is asking for clarification because he hasn't picked up exactly...]] Today as the first point, or possibly for already classified fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u25	Thank you, too. Next up is Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u26	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you to include an extraordinary point at today's Chamber of Deputies' meeting, a dispute between the public expression of the Prime Minister and the vote of the representatives of the Czech Republic at the UN General Assembly on the refugee pact. I would like to put this point ahead of the fixed points of today's programme. The Prime Minister promised yesterday we wouldn't sign a global pact. None. He even declared his promise publicly, we all read it. And this morning, we will learn from the press that we too have become with the lowly and humiliated signatories of this refugee pact. Briefly. We have signed an international treaty with which citizens disagree, which this Parliament has not discussed at all and which the Prime Minister has solemnly and explicitly promised not to sign. That's not what he's saying, that's what he's doing. We know that a long time ago, but that doesn't mean we're okay with it. Otherwise he speaks, or the Foreign Minister Petříček speaks. This government itself is repeatedly in great conflict with itself. We're dealing with details here, we're defining marriages, we're discussing whether lunches are free, what children can and cannot eat in schools, we're dealing with restitutions, and yet we're not able to control the security of our own country. Let's try to connect at least once and prevent this refugee pact. We will please open negotiations today on this global pact and reject our participation. We must not allow ourselves here to learn information from the media, to keep voting on us without us. I think our citizens deserve it, and I think they're fed up with it repeatedly. Let us adopt the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies refusing to sign yesterday's refugee pact in New York. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u27	Thank you. Next up, Mr Marek Výborný is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to ask you to place a point that has not been renegotiated at first reading. This is House Press No. 159, the amendment to Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code. It is a simple thing which nota bene is consistent with the government statement. It concerns a universally supported effort to support teachers, to support education. It concerns surcharges for the salaries of class teachers and also fees for specialized activities. This item was not negotiated at first reading. It is also closely linked to tomorrow's discussion of the State Budget Act and is, as I say, in agreement with our interest. These extras, which do not apply to all teachers, but relate to the work that is done in the vast majority beyond direct pedagogical activity and is being honored today by a completely ridiculous amount, can on average amount to only CZK 20 per hour of work done, so this to those teachers who really deserve it, because they work with our children, with our students, with our students, so discuss this at first reading so that ideally from the 2019-2020 school year, this thing can be corrected. So I would like to request the inclusion of paragraph 39, House press number 159, today, i.e. 18 December, after already firmly ranked points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u29	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u30	Mr President, colleagues, I did not want to perform. I thought we'd settle this with a vote, but after Mrs. Majerová's performance, I just have to get off. I will start by reading to you the resolution of the Czech Government adopted yesterday. It is a government resolution on further action on a global compact for safe, managed and legal migration and a global compact for refugees on UN soil. The resolution reads: Government I. recalls Government resolution No 746 of 14. 11. 2018, in which the government has decided not to join the Czech Republic in a global compact for safe, managed and legal migration. II. The Government imposes on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to impose a permanent representative of the Czech Republic at the United Nations in New York to vote against the draft resolution on a global compact for safe, managed and legal migration at the UN General Assembly. III. The Government requires the Minister of Foreign Affairs to impose a permanent representative of the Czech Republic at the UN in New York by voting to support the proposal for a legally non-binding resolution of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in the UN General Assembly, which is in line with the 1951 Geneva Convention and has no impact on the migration policy of the Czech Republic. IV. It imposes on the Minister of Foreign Affairs the Government's decision to inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the President of the United Nations General Assembly. I mean, what did we do? In line with this, the government declared, rejected the migration pact, and imposed our ambassador to the UN to do so. And in doing so, the Ambassador will undoubtedly stick to this mandate. What the government will do, secondly, is that we have decided to instruct our ambassador to support the report of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees on his activities, which is referred to in four paragraphs, in English there is affirms, on so-called. a refugee pact. Why did we do that? Because there's a clear difference between the definition of who's a migrant and who's a fugitive. The refugee status is clearly defined, among other things, in the Geneva Convention, so there is no dispute as to whether it is a legal migrant or an illegal migrant. A fugitive is a man who simply flees a country because he is in imminent danger of life, for example. The definition is absolutely clear, and therefore there are no disputes. When we said we had no problem applying to what this country has been doing all along, that is, to those who are in need and flee because they are in danger of harm to life or health, we simply help them. We had reservations about the migration pact. We turned him down. And by the way, just to be clear, when we're celebrating tonight, or this year we're celebrating a hundred years of the Republic. Masaryk was also a fugitive, and maybe if they thought in Paris like they did today, they'd put him back in Vienna, they could have arrested him or shot him, and we spoke German here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u31	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. The Minister of the Interior has just shown a figure of speech and has led the debate somewhere else. Let's get to the migration pact first. It was not so long ago that we discussed this in the House of Deputies on the initiative of the opposition, and when you, Minister through the President, defended this pact. I also grant you the right to change your mind, but a few weeks ago, you said something completely different from that microphone. It's legally non-binding, why we wouldn't actually sign it, why we wouldn't sign it, etc. What we blame for the other pact is a disunited foreign policy, a misguided foreign policy. I don't normally do this, but from the facebook of the chief, Prime Minister today 12.07: Since morning people have been writing me what they have read in the media, that we have signed a pact about refugees and not kept our word. It's not like that. And I still have a completely different opinion on this matter than the Secretary of State. - That's a live demonstration of ununited foreign policy. I am not interested in the individual views of the members of the government. The government as a whole has decided to join us. Personal opinions at the Office of the Government or at your coalition hearing, but what kind of signal is that going abroad? What is the position of the Czech Government when the Prime Minister disagrees with the Foreign Minister on such an important issue? Now we are not debating the content, we are debating the disunified foreign policy of the members of the government. A Prime Minister who doesn't agree with his foreign minister today, after the government has officially approved it yesterday. And by the way, Mr. Home Secretary, what was in the background materials from the State Department? What was the recommendation for the government at this point? That's what we can read. The recommendation from the State Department was for the government to instruct our deputy to abstain. So the Prime Minister is against it, the State Department is recommending to abstain, the government has decided that it is in favour, but with the mouth of the Minister of the Interior, everyone is united, we have a united view, and Masaryk is bringing it here. That doesn't belong here at all. Can you explain to me, Minister of the Interior, or you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, why did you propose to stay in the background material and what happened? You outvoted the Prime Minister? If so, he was outvoted to play one note abroad: we are the reasonable ones, we supported it, and here on Facebook to our constituents: I am fundamentally opposed. And that's the hypocrisy we're criticizing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u33	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Fiala Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u34	Hello, dear colleagues. What the chairman of the ODS club said here can only be agreed. The Prime Minister says nothing to me, I am, of course, against the migration pact or the refugee pact, the government, the government, they, not me. And people are texting us. Babiš doesn't really want that either. So the government approved it. The Prime Minister wasn't there, at the government, or what happened? The Home Secretary here said it's not really a big deal, it's a legally non-binding pact. The fact that it's a legally non-binding pact is true. However, it is a salami method where the whole of the European Union will remind us of this pact in the coming years. He's going to appeal to the pact when there are other things that directly concern it. Mr. Home Secretary had one opinion about this, and I'm going to repeat our point of view. The SPD movement's view of what the refugee pact is all about. De facto introduces global refugee quotas. Foreign Minister Hungary, Hungary, did not support this pact, he said literally - quote: The compact opens the back door for those who cannot come through the front door. In particular, it includes mechanisms for a more efficient, predictable, fairer international response to situations characterised by a large number of refugees. That means when another wave comes, we'll follow this pact. It offers international expansion of support or activation of measures for fairer and more predictable burden-sharing and accountability. For who? For fugitives, of course. The compact will also allow extended access to resettlement and other solutions in third countries. Moreover, this pact builds a return policy based solely on voluntary repatriations, including for the countries of origin of refugees. Last but not least, this compact has an ambition to seek to take into account the gender, age and diversity issues throughout the response to refugee movements, so it has similar things in it that are contained in the Istanbul Treaty. [[14.50 hours]] So if you thought Andrej Babiš was fighting mass immigration, then perhaps the facts in question led you to a mistake. Andrej Babiš, of course, had to sit in that government. The Minister of the Interior has read to us the Government's resolution, as the government has decided, and Mr Andrej Babiš must have been there, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u35	Thank you. I have two other priority rights here. First Minister Petříček, then Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Before the Minister goes around, I will read that Mr Holomčík votes with the replacement card number 5. And the rest after that. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u36	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to respond to the President on the procedure that this government has chosen in discussing both the global compact on migration and the global compact on refugees. In the first case, 14. 11. Our government has made it clear by its resolution that the Czech Republic is not joining the global compact on migration. Based on this, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs discussed with our diplomats how the Czech Republic will not join. The first step was that the representative of the Czech Republic was not present at a conference in Marrakech, which we did not identify with the UN in New York. The question of "staying or not staying" was discussed on Monday at the government. Both variants would lead to the same result that the Czech Republic will not participate in this compact. Finally, the government decided to vote against the compact and, on that basis, a clear message was sent to our UN ambassador this morning to notify this position as well. This is about the global migration compact. In the case of a global compact on refugees, it is a text that was negotiated in the first half of this year and approved on 7 July 2018. Subsequently, he was part of the report by the High Commissioner for Refugees, together with other texts. It is not, as some Members mention here, a binding text, it is not a text that introduces any obligations for the Czech Republic, which it would no longer do. When we talk about supporting countries facing a refugee crisis, we are talking about voluntary material and financial support that the Czech Republic has already repeatedly given to countries such as Jordan and Lebanon and others in the past. If we are talking about any commitments, they are already coming from the Geneva Convention of 1951. There's nothing new going on. And if some Members are talking about quotas, this really is not in this compact. There is no global relocation mechanism. On the contrary, it is said that refugees are to return as quickly as possible to the countries from which they left, where they fled from conflict or persecution. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u37	Thank you. President Kalousek withdraws his application because it has been answered. Next up is President Chvojka, then President Okamura, then President, possibly Vice-President, both titles are valid, Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to comment on two things. Firstly, I would, on behalf of two parliamentary clubs, i.e. club YES and club ČSSD, wanted to veto President Okamura's proposal to place a point that I don't even know what I would call a standard thing - you're doing it all wrong and we'd do it better. And then I would like to comment on what KDU-ČSL has proposed here, i.e. Let's give this information to Minister Took about what's going on today with traffic on the D1 motorway. I think it deserves a discussion. We consider the situation as ČSSD, in which the traffic to D1 has reached, really alarming and very bad, and we strongly appeal to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok to actually start solving the problems that are long-term on the D1 motorway. It's not a matter of the one week that the situation is going on, but the problems are going on for a long time, of course. And it is unacceptable for us to let the Ministry of Transport put this whole thing in a situation that really threatens to be a disaster. After all, my colleague, Governor Jiří Běhounek, could tell about it, I think for a very long time. This means that we as the ČSSD, albeit the coalition party, look forward to the explanation of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok and we want him and we are curious about how he will deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u39	Thank you. Another priority right, Mr. Vice-President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u40	So I think it's now shifted because of the Foreign Minister Petříček's statement, because the questions that I've put here are actually being answered. Indeed, the government - to sum up - supported yesterday a global pact on refugees at the UN General Assembly. Yes, the Minister confirmed it. It is true that, at the same time, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš did not tell the truth on news server news yesterday.cz where he said he was opposed to the Czech Republic supporting a global refugee pact. He said he was against it. So that's the second fact we've learned from this debate. So Prime Minister Andrej Babiš lied in an interview on the news. cz, because the government really supported the global refugee pact. Which, of course, is completely scandalous, I must say. Directly, I repeat, you are hurting the interests of the Czech Republic and the Czech national interests on migration, because I believe that most citizens of the Czech Republic simply do not want it. And we need everyone to hear it. Furthermore, the Foreign Minister here said that nothing was going on, because the pact about refugees, for which the government voted yesterday, virtually. was for its acceptance, respectively. She supported him, he's casual. Then I don't understand why a noncommittal pact is accepted. Why does the government support him? Because if we are in favour of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic and we think - and we think so, and we want to keep it, even though the sovereignty is already being greatly downgraded, we want to return it, so if we are a sovereign Czech Republic, we do not need such pacts, we will adjust our legislation according to our needs and needs. So, briefly, when I sum up the number three that I have learned here, it is that Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček - who has already left, probably has no interest in being in the Chamber of Deputies on this subject, which also shows his behavior - basically told us that because it is casual, they voted in favour. Well, that's a terrible thing. Furthermore, Minister Petříček here told us that the Hungarian Foreign Minister is actually lying. And so I, Minister Petříček, who has the history he has, will not repeat it again, pro-migrant, sunshine, multicultural has opinions, so I just don't trust him. It's rude to say this, but I don't trust the Czech Foreign Minister. I'd rather trust the Hungarian. And I repeat that Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó - who then did not support - said that - quote - the compact opens the back door for those who cannot come through the front door. Specifically, it includes - I quote - mechanisms for a more effective, predictable and fairer international response to a situation characterised by a large number of refugees. Furthermore - I quote - offers international expansion of support or activation of measures for fairer and more predictable burden-sharing and accountability. The compact will also allow extended access to resettlement and other solutions in third countries. Moreover, this pact builds a return policy based solely on voluntary repatriations, including for the countries of origin of refugees. Last but not least, this compact has the ambition to seek to take into account gender, age, and diversity in response to the movements of refugees throughout the time. So Minister Petříček, the fourth point I learned after his performance, said that the Hungarian Foreign Minister was lying and that he was right because he said there was no such thing. And we're quoting him here. Then I don't understand. But the minister left. Now I don't know if it's any provocation or whether it's supposed to be here on purpose, because I take it specifically as a provocation when the entire House is discussing and Minister Petříček just leaves the O.R. so he doesn't have to listen to us or have to react. I don't understand. What's that supposed to mean? This is normally a contempt for the seriousness of the situation. [[15.00 hours]] I call on Mr. Petříček to simply come back and shed light on the things we are talking about. Let him say if he's lying. Tell us here that the Hungarian Foreign Minister is wrong. That's what needs to be said. And the casual one. We've heard that before in the global pact on migration. It's called a salami method. Basically, it's always said that something is casual, you accept it, and it always cuts off the powers of the Czech Republic. We will gradually get under the control of various legislative instruments, I would say, instruments, and then, of course, we cannot get out of this, because the various political nonprofits and other activists will start referring to various conventions. We've seen this before, these methods are clear. But I would like us to remain a sovereign Czech Republic, and here we set up laws and legislation based on the results of democratic elections in the Czech Republic, as people hand out political cards here, not somewhere in New York or somewhere in Marrakech or somewhere in Istanbul, by which I mean the Istanbul Convention. So I'm asking Minister Petříček to answer these questions to come back here. I don't know where he went. If it's on the toilet, it's been there a long time. [[Glee in the hall.]] Don't be mad at me. I really feel like it's a plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u41	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kováčik, then Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madame and gentlemen, I would like to support the proposal that is to be dealt with, to say the least, in quotation marks, the D1 situation, and I will add to that the other Czech motorways at the moment when there is a climate problem. If you recall, I refer to last Tuesday, where the topic was first heard. I have made it clear here that if the government does not move on this, that is, if the Minister of Transport does not come up with a proposal, they will come up with a proposal from Members, namely we will come up with a proposal, and it will no longer be possible for a truck to enter the left lane in similar situations, thickened and briefly said. The proposal is in the world. True, it's not from our workshop, but it doesn't matter who wrote it. The important thing is that, after the years we have tried, the proposals have also been here in the past parliamentary periods to adopt a similar adjustment, such as in Germany, Austria or elsewhere, where truck overtaking is simply prohibited in similar situations. If I make it a lot easier and I cut it short so that someone doesn't grab a word from me, an adjustment that when it starts to freeze, snow, fog, froze and so on, the truck driver just knows that if he gets into the last free lane, he's gonna have a big problem, and he's not gonna take it Czech, nor Moravian, or Hungarian, or German, or anyone else, he's just gonna know that it's the same here as anywhere else to the west, I mean right now, especially in Germany, that this isn't possible that the lane remains free for those cars that have the ability to drive through, for buses, for paramedics, for the maintenance of highways and so on. I am simply saying this in detail, because such adjustments included our proposal, and Mr Pojezný remembers this very well and many others, which has been rejected by the Chamber of Deputies several times in recent periods. And that is why I look forward not only to the debate, but also to the fact that it will have a result, not only will we rightly wash the food in the quotation marks to the Minister of Transport, but that it will be wider, not only that there is almost a crowded, closed motorway, there is only one lane in narrowings, but even in a situation where the motorway is free of passage, there will be a climate disturbance, so that it will be possible to count on it in general. I am even convinced that there is no law needed to resolve the situation of this winter right now. All you have to do is place the relevant traffic signs. But I do not prevent it from finally being adopted, so that, in future, it is clear how to proceed. We will support this law if it contains these ideas, or we are even prepared to discuss it in a short hearing, so that it is in the world as soon as possible, so that it is finally clear. With regard to the issue of narrowing the motorway in a situation where it is hoped that it will not snow in December, I leave this aside as an excuse. It just has to be clear here, and it's always been so during the reconstructions that October came, all the barriers and narrowed guardrails were removed, the highways after the winter period drove normally, in March, at most April were closed again and the work continued. If otherwise, we need to ask questions, and we will ask questions ourselves, and we will not be alone, how that could have happened at all, how the building surveillance was carried out, how the control days were conducted, and all these things, that this situation could have happened. How come prevention has been neglected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u43	Thank you. Vice-President Fiala, then President Radim Fiala. For colleagues who would like to make a point of fact, I would remind you that we are still in discussion on the agenda and cannot give room for factual comments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u44	Mr President, I volunteered because I wanted to speak to the issues relating to the two pacts, migration and refugees. Meanwhile, President Kováčik has spoken on the subject of D1. The two issues are intersecting here, both important, both largely related, because they both show certain shortcomings in the government's work, and I think they both need to be discussed. The Civil Democratic Party will also support the inclusion of this point on the situation on D1 and, in addition, Mr Skopeček will shortly speak with a proposal for a point which also addresses this situation a little on the other side. However, I want to return to the situation of two pacts, migration and refugees, and the position of the Czech Government. I think that's something that's extremely serious. I want to point this out a little differently from what Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Okamura did here. I could really understand that the government would take a negative view of the migration pact, the refugee pact for some reason, it would defend it somehow, it would just say it to the public, somehow it would show it to foreign partners. But what I cannot understand is the disunity of foreign policy, the different statements made publicly by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister who is responsible for foreign policy, and the Foreign Minister who has foreign policy in Georgia. Ladies and gentlemen, whether you are from the government camp or from the opposition, please, let us not underestimate this. No country, not even much stronger than us, can afford this to have such a disunited, chaotic, non-conceptual foreign policy. That weakens us. We won't be trustworthy! We will not be able to explain to foreign partners what we really want, what our position is, and why that attitude is! What's the situation here? Let's just remember that. The Prime Minister said that it is against us to support, accept or agree with the pact not only on migration but also on the other, the refugees. The opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that went to the government was that we should stick around. Finally, the Czech Republic was in favour, which is what Minister Petříček is defending for us here, but if he reasons that there is nothing dangerous, that it is not binding, that the Czech Republic can support it, I would like to believe it, but then I do not understand why the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was, let us refrain, and why the Prime Minister says that it is dangerous and that we should not support it. I think that it is necessary for the government to agree on these matters so that those who speak for foreign policy also speak together and publicly speak only the unified position of the Czech government, which will be understandable to the public, will be understandable to us and will be understandable to foreign partners. If we do not do this, we risk that the next time we do something we will not be clear, no one will take it seriously, we will not be able to enforce the interests of the Czech Republic. And this isn't a trivial thing. [[15.10 hours]] If, for good reasons, the Czech Republic stands on the position of a minority of countries, if, for good reasons, the Czech Republic belongs to several countries which both or one of these pacts reject, then the position must be justified, it must be defended across the political spectrum, but at least it must be clearly explained by the entire government. And we are in a situation where this is not happening, that the Prime Minister is saying something other than the Foreign Minister in one week, and even that the Prime Minister says that he has learned about the Foreign Minister's position, and now I quote, from fellow prime ministers at some meeting at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we? We may have gotten used to everything in the Czech Republic. But this for foreign partners, for foreign diplomats, for people who are responsible for foreign policy in other countries, it only seems ridiculous, dilettant and amateur. We can't have such foreign policy. And I take this opportunity to call on the Prime Minister, to call on the government, to call on the coalition partners of this government to unite foreign policy and not to further harm the interests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u45	Thank you. President Radim Fiala with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u46	Once again, honourable Members. Maybe you remember when the emergency meeting was last Thursday, so I was here for the first three minutes talking about the refugee pact, and I asked the government and the foreign minister to be held back on this matter. In diplomatic language, it means they don't sign it so they don't vote for it. If I'm listening to it today, I have three reasons to do it again. The first reason is the concept of foreign policy. The State Department is holding up. The Prime Minister is against it. The government's in. Three different opinions of people who should agree on how they will represent the Czech Republic abroad. They're all totally different. Two. How am I supposed to understand that the Foreign Minister isn't here when it's a matter that's very sensitive, which the Foreign Minister has in his mind, and when should he at least listen to what we're talking about? And he's not here. And the third reason is that the government doesn't want to discuss it. Neither does the Chamber of Deputies, or the coalition doesn't want to discuss it because we heard two vetoes here. Social Democrats and the ANO movement have brought this point to light so that we cannot talk about it. This is a very difficult and new situation for us, ladies and gentlemen. So let me have a word with you about this thing here. And I'd also like Minister Petříček to come and at least listen to what we're saying. Let me ask for an hour at the SPD MP's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u47	This is a request from the MP to the extent that we have agreed in gentlemen's terms that pauses will be provided. Then I will grant this request immediately. For your information, then there will be two other Members on the agenda, only then will we vote on the agenda itself. I am therefore interrupting the meeting until 16.14 to be built for sure until when it is interrupted. We'll continue at 16.14.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u48	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Allow me first to state the apologies received by the President of the House. Mr Holík apologizes from 18:00 until the end of the day, Vice-President Hanzel from 15:30 to 16:30, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg from 14:00 to 15:00 for health reasons, Minister Metnar apologizes for the whole afternoon for working reasons within the department and also for working reasons Mrs Langšádlová from 17:19 apologies and Mr Farský from 16.14 for the rest of the day. And that's all out of an apology. We are now continuing the debate on the agenda. Vice-President Tomio Okamura reports with priority rights and Mr Miroslav Grebeníček and Mr Skopeček are duly applied for. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, after an hour, I hope, the government coalition has had some space to think about, so I'm going to propose once more the inclusion of this point. So I'm going to suggest it a little bit in a different version. I originally proposed the Government's information on the global pact on UN migration and the UN Global Pact on Refugees. Because you rejected the votes YES and CSSD to make in the attic The Chamber of Deputies discussed yesterday's vote when the government of the ČSSD and the ANO movement supported the KSČM with the support of the global pact on refugees at the UN General Assembly, so I will modify it so that my proposal can be put to the vote again. So it's Government Information on the UN Global Pact on Refugees. We want to give SPD space to the government one more time to think about the fact that we should be discussing this here after all. Quickly, effectively, agree on a resolution. Because it is not possible that, contrary to the Czech national interests, yesterday at the UN General Assembly, you supported the global refugee pact, which de facto introduces global refugee quotas, and, as the Foreign Minister of Hungary said, Péter Szijjártó - Hungary and the US did not support this fact - so he said that this global compact, which the government supported, opens the back door for those who cannot come through the front door. In particular, it includes mechanisms for a more efficient, predictable and fairer international response to a situation characterised by a large number of refugees. It offers international expansion of support or activation of measures for fairer and more predictable sharing of burden of responsibility. Furthermore, this global refugee pact, which your government supported yesterday at the UN, will allow for an extended approach to resettlement and other solutions for third countries. Moreover, this pact builds a return policy based solely on voluntary repatriations, including for the countries of origin of refugees. Last but not least, this compact has the ambition to seek to take into account gender, age, and diversity in response to the movements of refugees throughout the time. So it has the same things in it that the Istanbul Treaty contains. If you thought Andrej Babiš was fighting mass immigration, perhaps the facts that led you astray. So I would like us, after you've rejected it to us once before, to once again - here I'm giving an alternative proposal - and then to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u50	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Grebeníček is now on the agenda. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward a proposal to amend the inclusion of point No. 184 - Report on the activities of the Audit Board of the Czech Grant Agency from October 2017 to September 2018, this is the House's press 307, on Wednesday, 19 December after the already fixed points. The reason is simple. Part of this report is also a proposal for annual remuneration of the Grant Agency Audit Board and it would probably not be too happy to move it up to 2019. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u52	All right, solid point classification. Now, Mr. Skopeček. [[Ambassador Chvojka reporting.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u53	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. I would like to go back to the D1 debate, however, a little bit from a different point of view. We propose to include a point Price of motorway stamps in the context of the quality and transitability of the backbone road network in the Czech Republic. It's a repeated suggestion on my part. I tried it at the end of the previous parliamentary term at the time of the summer columns on the D1 motorways. I think it's immoral to ask our motorists, besides paying excise duty on petrol, paying the road tax, paying the citizens VAT on petrol, asking them to pay CZK 1,500 for both summer and the first snow in the columns. I think it's immoral that if the state is not able to provide a public good of a quality corresponding to the 21st century, then it should not collect such a high amount from it. I think that the aim of this debate should be some resolution that would oblige the Minister of Transport to prepare a proposal to reduce the price of road signs, at least not for the coming year, but for the year after next, because today motorists have already purchased a number of stamps. But I think that for the next year, it would be a good compensation for the fact that motorists' citizens have to spend long hours both in summer and in winter on impenetrable motorways. The revenue from the highway stamp isn't high enough for the state budget to afford it. Let me just remind you that it is from the excise tax on petrol that the state is collecting tens of billions of crowns in order, in addition to roughly five billion revenue from motorway stamps. [[16.20 hours]] So let's open up the debate, let's talk about it, maybe we can come to some compromise, that it may not be a loser, but I really think that in the current problems on our motorways, it is really immoral from the citizens of the Czech Republic, but also from the foreign motorists who are passing through the Czech Republic to ask for CZK 1,500. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u54	Thank you for the suggestion. Now, Mr Jan Chvojka, then Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u55	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, respectively. Evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to veto the proposal by my colleague Majerová Zahradníková, on behalf of two parliamentary clubs, the club of the ANO movement and the club of the ČSSD, to include a point concerning global pacts and migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u56	Thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová, then Vice-President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to remind you that during the discussion of the programme, I proposed a change in the programme and the inclusion of a new point concerning the intervention of Mr Šlachta, signed by Mrs Šlechtová, and in cooperation with the six hundred and one, and I proposed it at 16 o'clock. Because the SPD took a break, there's no way to vote on it, so I'm asking you to vote on it, I'm changing the time - today at 5:00 p.m. and Friday as the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u58	Okay, thank you. So now we have everyone, no one else reporting for the debate. Mr. Vice-President Okamura? No, it's okay. In that case, we can start voting on individual proposals. The first proposal on which we will vote is the proposal that fell from the Gremia, which means that point 27, House Press 207, the Government's amendment to the Commercial Corporations Act, is deleted and the election points are to be included on Wednesday at 12.30 pm, namely paragraphs 145, 146, 147 and 148. Those are the designs from the Gremium. I'm asking if we can vote them out at the same time. No one objects, so we will vote at once. I am opening the vote number 106 and I am asking who is in favour of these proposals. [[Protest from the O.R. that there was an application for check-out.]] I'm sorry. In that case, I declare vote 106 misguided. I'm shutting you all out. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries is stabilized, we will decide on a proposal for the elimination of point 27 and a fixed classification of points 145, 146, 147 and 148 for tomorrow at 12.30. We will decide in the vote number 107, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 107 of 170 present for 170, against no one. The proposal was accepted and we changed the program. Now, therefore, on individual proposals. On the original proposal for a report on the UN Global Pact, the veto of Members was presented, but Vice-President Tomio Okamura made an alternative proposal, i.e. government information on the state of the refugee negotiations, and the veto did not come to that. We will decide in the vote number 108, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 108, with 171 Members present for 52, against 85. The motion was not accepted. The proposal is now followed - Pavel Kováčik, chairman of the club KSČM, is reporting. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u59	Thank you for the floor. I'm so sorry. This time it is not really Chvojka's fault, but for unknown reasons neither I nor my colleague Luzar have been able to sign up, that is, I do not question the vote, we would have voted in favour, so I would have voted in favour if I could have applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u60	Okay, thank you. I'll check you out one more time. Then I'll give the floor to the chairman of the Radim Fial Club. I declare vote 109 misguided, and I will ask you to sign in. Please log in with your ID cards. I ask my colleague Pavel Kováčik - is he logged in? A colleague of Luzar, too. Now, with priority rights, the chairman of the club. [[Mr Radim Fiala doesn't want to speak until after the vote.]] After the vote? Okay. We will now vote on Mr Faltýnek's proposals, namely that the fixed classification of points from 14:00, that is, from now on, when we approve it. As the first point 21, then point 11, then point 22, then point 23, point 24, then point 25, 26 and 35. We must vote separately on paragraph 13 because there is an alternative proposal from Mr Michálek. Like I said, 21, 11, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 35. That's the order we'd approve. I've started voting 110, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 110, out of 176 entries 118 in favour, against 36. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the inclusion of paragraph 13, on free access to information, second reading, so as to include it firmly at 18.30, according to Mr Michálek's amendment. Yes? This is a voteable proposal, because it does not interfere with the order, only puts it firmly on point number 13 at a certain point, which was beyond point 35. [[16.30 hours]] I've started voting number 111 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 111. From the present 176 for 23, against 8. The motion was not accepted. So now we have the opportunity to vote on this point 13 being after point 35, that is, after sickness insurance, first reading. That is a voteable proposal. I've started voting number 112 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 112. From the present 177 for 109, versus 2. The motion was accepted. We've placed item number 13 for item number 35 of today's meeting. Now, Prime Minister Radim Fiala is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say that if the government does not want to discuss the global pact with us, and of course neither the coalition, the refugees, we tried to propose it twice, twice the veto was given to the information, so we will try to... [[Ambassador Faltynek objects from the diaper.]] Once, sorry. It wasn't approved once. It was clear that you did not want to discuss this, so we will try to call for an emergency meeting on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u62	I thank Mr Radim Fial. Now Mr Pavel Kováčik's proposal for the elimination of point 34 is. We will decide in the vote number 113, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the elimination of paragraph 34. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 113. From the present 178 for 142, against 10. The proposal was adopted and item 34 was excluded from this meeting. We will now vote on Mrs Černochová's proposal, where instead of 16 o'clock is 17, and this is a new point, the Government's information on the deployment of the army in the Czech Republic. It's a voteable proposal. In voting number 114, we will decide on him. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 114. From the present 178 for 83, versus 7. The proposal has not been adopted, so we will not deal with it at this meeting. Now, Mr Bartoň, and that is the proposal for item 192... Before I vote, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u63	Just a brief vote. If you've realized what we've voted on. You refused to talk about the fact that there was a real suspicion that the law had been violated and that the military had been abused. That's just a very important thing. You refused to inform the government, said: the law was complied with, the information is incorrect, or the law was broken, and we will deal with it. That is, at this point, the Chamber of Deputies rejected its role in controlling the government. So if I go back to the previous time, you didn't have a problem with Timeless, but now you don't want to talk about it anymore. And I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u64	Mr President, I understand you, but the will of Members is that. Everyone has different priorities at this meeting, I can't influence it or I can't take your word for it because you have a priority right. We will now vote in paragraph 192 and this is the control of resolution 66 on teacher salaries. It's for Tuesday for already fixed points, which means today we're after point 13. Yes? I started voting number 115. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 115. From the present 178 for 86, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. We can continue voting on individual proposals, namely the proposal by Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who proposes a point of failure of the Ministry of Transport. That's a slam dunk, yes. Here I have the veto of Members pursuant to § 54 para. 6, so we're not discussing it. He's ahead of us... I'm going to re-sign you out of the House and ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your voting cards before we negotiate the transfer of already approved paragraph 82, that is printing 295, first for fixed points. Yes, the chairman of the ODS Club still wants to comment on this. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u65	Yes. I want to comment on the veto. I fully respect him, however, when I had, like, a quarter to two on TV, Minister Ťok told everyone that he was ready to debate D1, and then his club wouldn't support him. Where's he gonna debate when you guys hit that point? I don't know if we're gonna debate in the galleys or what? It's a typical figure of speech. I'd love to explain it, all the truth is on my side, but unfortunately, my club has brought it to my attention, and there won't be room for debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u66	Okay. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, then Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club. Calm down, please. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u67	Thank you for the floor. The logical contradiction that President Stanjura has drawn attention to here may be very easy to explain. Minister Ťok was prepared just as he was prepared for the winter. [[Laughter, applause and entertainment in the hall.]] And his MP knows it well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u68	Okay. Now Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club, Mr. Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u69	Thank you. I understand and respect the decision of the House and the veto. The truth is, who would wait on the highway in mid-December for snow, right? Let alone a catastrophic condition. I understand. It was probably a big surprise for a number of members of the YES, and you have the need to hold your minister. I understand. Who would expect snow on the freeway in December? At the same time, however, it must be said that this is indeed a managerial failure of the Minister of Transport, the unwillingness of the members of the ANO movement to discuss this subject in order to obtain information. It is a contempt for the citizens of the Czech Republic because we could learn what will be done to correct, what will happen... [[Mr Hájek responds loudly from the diaper several times.]] Mr President, on the one hand, do not yell at me, please. And the other thing. This isn't supposed to be about the Minister of Transport having a solo and a monologue here. This was supposed to be about an extraordinary point and the possibility of Members to comment on it. Personally, I see it as a disrespect to the citizens. Because go explain it to those left on the freeway. Go explain it to those kids who stayed on the freeway on the bus for several hours, more than ten hours. Go explain to them that you don't really care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u70	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Kováčik. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u71	Thank you for the floor. I'm assuming we weren't the authors of the veto. We've been saying this since the House started dealing with things, even as a byproduct. I'd probably just - yes, explain it to the kids, it sounded like, with no debate to be here. Of course, these kids aren't gonna be able to explain anything. The important thing is that an adjustment should be adopted as quickly as possible to prevent such situations. And that's next to what I've been saying here, that's next to ending all the work before the winter season, and then adopting an adjustment that would prevent those repeated roadblocks not only on the D1 motorways, and that's a ban on entering the left lane for vehicles over 12 tons or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u72	Thank you. Well, club presidents trump each other. So the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club and then the chairman of the CSSD Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u73	Thank you for the floor. Since the situation on D1 is absolutely crucial for KDU-ČSL and we need to agree on further progress, in which case KDU-ČSL takes an hour's break before further negotiations to arrange further progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u74	Well, in this case, I won't say a word to President Chvojka and wait for a break. So I intended to give Mr. Transport Minister priority to Dan Ťok, but although I can't do it between the vote, it is simply a difficult matter not to be accused of manipulating the proceedings. So, yes, I'll meet you at 17.40 after the KDU-ČSL meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 5:40 p.m., we will continue to approve the agenda of the meeting, because we have not yet dealt with the vote with all the proposals that have been made. Before we proceed to the next vote, I will introduce you to the apologies that have come in the meantime. Mr Radek Koten apologizes today after 19 o'clock, Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček apologizes from 17.00 to the end of the day for work reasons, and Mrs Monika Jarošová apologises from 17.40 to the end of the day for personal reasons. As I said, we have not yet voted on all proposals to amend the agenda of the meeting, which have been heard and which are voteable. It is our turn to take a vote on Mr Kolářík's proposal to include paragraph 82, House press 295, on executions, today after firmly placed points. There's a request for a check-out that I have now granted. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Kolářík's proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 116, registered by 156 Members, for 58, against 40. The motion was not accepted. We cannot vote on Mrs Majerová Zahradníková's proposal because the veto of the ČSSD and the ANO movement was tabled. However, we can vote on Mr Excellent's proposal that paragraph 39, House press 159, the Labour Code, should be included today following the firmly placed points. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 117, 162 Members registered, for 79, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal is Mr Grebeníček's proposal. It is paragraph 184, House press 307, which concerns the grant agency's remuneration. The proposal is that we place this point on Wednesday 19. 12. after fixed points, that is to say, the state budget and reports relating to the state budget. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 118, 167 Members signed in for 57, versus 7. The motion was not accepted. The last proposal that was here is Mr Skopeček's proposal, which we cannot vote on because 20 Members have been put to the veto and therefore cannot be put to the vote on this proposal. This has dealt with all the proposals for changing the agenda of the meeting. I'm just wondering if anyone else had a proposal that we might have forgotten to vote. It's not like that. Vice-President Pikal shall apply with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u76	I'd just go with the last veto. In principle, the veto of 20 Members was put here to discuss the situation on the D1 motorway and why it is happening, and it was put very quietly that it could not be answered. So I wonder which twenty Members it was, if I could ask for a reading for the steno.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u77	Mr Vice-President, I have here a signature, which contains more than twenty Members, so the Rules of Procedure are fulfilled. I can put that document at your disposal. Or do you wish me to read these Members? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What kind of habit is that?]] Wait, I am asking the Vice-President, who made this request, whether I should get to know, by name, the 20 Members who have raised the veto. I'm sure the Vice-President has the right, if he insists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u78	I've asked to be read, but I understand that it's causing a bit of disavowment here in the hall, so maybe it would trigger some procedural votes, etc., and I don't know if I want to go this way. [[Reaction from the right side.]] Apparently, I do. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So in that case, I would like to ask for this procedure, and if objections are raised, we will deal with them by voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u79	President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u80	Thank you. The procedure is possible double. Either you as President, or you will allow someone with priority rights to speak and read the names.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-18-ps2017-024-05-000-000.u81	I believe that, although it is not usual and I hope that this will not become a full practice, the Chamber of Deputies has the right to know the names of the Members who have spoken the veto. I have no reason not to introduce you to them. If you don't mind, I'm not gonna read the names, just the last name. I hope somebody doesn't have any bad intentions about it. So it was MPs Bělica, Bláha, Vrabec, Brázdil, Brzobohatá, Bžoch, Červíčková, Faltýnek, Farhan, Feranec, Fialová, Jáč, Janulík, Kalous, Kolovratník, Kořánová, Kott, králíček, Kubíček, Kubík, Malá, Mašek, Maxová, Melková, Novák, Ožanová, Okleštěk, Pastuchová, Petrtýl, Plzák, Poul, Pražák, Rais, Ratiborský, Richter, Rutová, Růžička, Sadovský, Schiller, Strýček, Štolpa, Válková, Venhoda, Vojtěch, Volný, Jan Volný, Vondráček, Vrana, Vrána, Vyzula, Zlesák. There's more than 20 of them. The Rules of Procedure have been fulfilled in this respect. Now, in accordance with the approved programme, I am initiating the discussion of item 21, which is:
