ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u1	19. Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Dominik Feri, Miroslav Kalousek, Helena Langšádlová, Karel Schwarzenberg, František Vácha and Vlastimil Válek for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended /house print 85/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House press number 85/1. I ask that Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová make a proposal for the appellants. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to present to you the amendment to Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, which, of course, regulates, among other things, the payment of cash assistance in maternity and compensation in pregnancy and maternity. These doses are calculated according to current rules from the so-called reduced assessment base. How's it going... [[In addition, a group of Members are debating in front of the speaker's desk.]] Could I just ask you gentlemen...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u3	Yes, thank you, Madame, for representing me. But I will give you the peace that is necessary to discuss the bill you present here. Once again, I ask all of us to create decent conditions here and, in fact, a level playing field for anyone who speaks and gives you an understanding of their views. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u4	Thank you very much. These doses are calculated according to current rules from the reduced assessment base. For those of you who may have never met it, I believe that there is no complete knowledge of how the parent is calculated, for all of you, although I do not want to underestimate anybody, so the reduction is now being made so that the amount to the first reduction limit is calculated in 100 per cent, from the amount above the first to the second reduction limit is calculated only 60 per cent and from the amount above the second reduction limit to the third reduction limit is calculated 30 per cent and the amount above the third reduction limit is no longer taken into account. This proposed adjustment therefore alleviates this particular disadvantage for those who have a slightly higher income, or are medium-income, by effectively abolishing the very reduction in the assessment base, by uniting the percentage adjustment for all reduction limits for the calculation of the adjusted assessment base for the calculation of these benefits - maternity cash assistance and compensation in pregnancy - namely to 100 per cent. The bill helps prevent a more pronounced decline in the standard of living after the birth of the child, thereby supporting the creation of families. A fairer calculation of motherhood assistance could help more than 20,000 families a year. It is, of course, only a qualified estimate based on the data I had the opportunity to obtain from the Czech Social Security Administration. Around 76,000 families receive these doses each year and 21 percent of them could be affected. It is, of course, only a qualified estimate based on data from recent years. It would thus help mothers and families with average income. In today's figures we are already talking about helping people who earn around thirty and a half thousand, and as you know, the current average wage in the Czech Republic is CZK 31,646. So it can be said that the more the average wage increases, so more people and this proposal have the opportunity to help. The bill will, of course, mean an increase in the expenditure of the state budget for the payment of maternity assistance. According to qualified estimates, however, the estimated overall impact of this law on the state budget is CZK 832 million in one year, and I believe that this is a help that is very rewarding for these families, and for us as companies, for the future. This financial impact, of course, is precisely offset by a more effective family policy supporting a higher birth rate in the medium and long term, which will be reflected in the following years by increased collection of income tax and social insurance. Of course, it must be said that the sickness account from which these benefits are paid together with others is in the long term surplus. So it won't be dosed or changed into a minus. [[There is a strong noise in the Chamber.]] According to the latest data of the Czech Social Security Administration, i.e. to 1. 9. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the general budget of the Union. In 2016, revenue even amounted to 28.5 billion and expenditures to 26.3 billion, so you can see that the difference, even if we approve the law, does not affect the account to be minus. The proposal is very brief, the change is actually very simple, but with regard to the support of specific families, which can change income during the earliest period, i.e. the motherhood of the woman, it is certainly very significant and small, because from the perspective of the individual, the individual family can relate not only to the order of hundreds of crowns, but even thousands of crowns, and I think that it will really recognize the family budget. Of course I'm aware... that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I call on you to stop discussing in the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies in a way that prevents proper consideration of individual points. I beg you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u6	Thank you very much. Of course, I am aware that many will argue that it is only aid to a group of residents, that it concerns, say, those above-income people who have the opportunity to save the very incomes they had before their maternity period for this stage of life. However, I think that this is an important signal to these families that even the middle class is supported within the Czech Republic, because it bears a great burden on itself exactly what other groups of people are then supported from, which have the opportunity to draw a whole range of benefits, such as birth benefits, this does not concern these people here, children's contributions, this does not apply to these people again, and therefore that from those levies that they have taken away for their active working life and will definitely take away after they return to it, so those mothers will also get something back within a certain stage of life. And I think it's a very good signal for these people, too, because in many cases, they're really on the verge of having another baby. I think that we should want to take them because of course we know what the demographic situation in the Czech Republic is. So I was trying to be brief. I feel the noise that there's no real interest in family politics here, but I'm very sorry, and I'm glad some of them have it. And I believe that not only some of us, because we should all be interested in ensuring that national policy in the Czech Republic is favourable to families. Here, the proposal concerns only a fairer calculation of one of the benefits for families. So I believe that there will be many of our promises here that support for the family will not only be in our pre-election programs, but that it will indeed be confirmed by some concrete action and that citizens will then be able to see it. Because I think it's really something worth supporting. I will be happy to have a discussion here, of course, to answer any questions, and I am prepared to discuss this very closely in the committee, which I hope will discuss this on the Social Committee, because I would hate to have this proposal thrown out of the table, if necessary, just because it comes from the opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u7	I thank Mrs Pekarová Adamová, the draftsman, and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u8	Thank you, colleague Richterová. It's great. [[Mrs Pastuch is standing at the microphone on the step. There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on this House's press, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová and others. A completely identical proposal was tabled by Mrs Pekarová Adamová in the last parliamentary term in February 2016 and the discussion of this press was concluded at the end of the parliamentary term without voting. This Member State's draft law, Mrs and others, aims to straighten the proportion of the amount of maternity benefit for parents with medium and higher income to a similar relationship to those with lower-income parents, by abolishing the first two reduction limits for the adjustment of the daily assessment base from which the daily amount of the levy is fixed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, it's embarrassing to keep calling for peace. In a moment, I would have to approach what I would almost be ashamed of myself by naming individual Members who are violating the rules of the Chamber of Deputies with unbearable noise. I ask you once again to create serious conditions for everyone who speaks from the speaker's desk. Thank you. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u10	Thank you. This proposal prefers the principle of merit over the principle of solidarity. I'm sure I see that parents with above-average income are not losing their income in the form of a benefit in such a session as lower-income parents. This group of insured persons is experiencing a more pronounced decline in the standard of living, but it should also be seen that the purpose of the sickness insurance scheme is to replace only an adequate amount of a good income, not to compensate for the loss of income entirely, in application of the principle of solidarity. This principle applies to all sickness insurance benefits, not only to maternity benefits. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room. The MP has stopped talking and is waiting to be calmed down.]] The abolition of the first and second reduction limits would significantly increase the level of maternity benefit for persons with above-average income, with the benefit of those persons up to the third reduction limit almost fully replacing the lost net wage income. By the third reduction limit, the net dose replacement ratio would be slightly increasing. The most significant increase in the net compensation ratio would occur in people with a gross wage of 1,2 to three times the average wage, roughly in the range of CZK 75 to 90 000, for which the amount of cash assistance in maternity would average 98 percent of the net wage and in some months would even be higher than the net wage. The proposed change would have a significant impact on the state budget. As regards the calculation of the financial implications for the state budget referred to in the proposal, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs concluded after carrying out its own calculations that it was possible to estimate the cost of about one billion per year, i.e. not announced 832 million, as the petitioner states. It is also necessary to mention the legislative changes in the sickness insurance scheme effective from 2018, i.e. an increase in sickness insurance from 31. respectively. from the 61st day of temporary incapacity for work and two new benefits, namely paternity, postpartum and long-term infirmary benefits, which will lead to a relatively significant increase in expenditure in the sickness insurance scheme. It is therefore very likely that the balance of the system will not be surplus from this year onwards. In the case of the approval of the draft Member, further proposals for similar adjustments to other sickness insurance benefits may most likely also be expected, which would consequently have an even more substantial impact on the state budget. As far as international comparisons are concerned, it is true that some countries of the European Union provide a benefit of similar cash assistance in the amount of one hundred percent of their wages, but disproportionately shorter periods of time. The duration of the provision of cash in maternity is above average in the Czech Republic. The parliamentary proposal also does not reflect current applicable legislation, when do § 21 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the sickness insurance law has been supplemented by a new allowance, paternity allowance, the amount of which is calculated in a similar manner as the amount of cash assistance in maternity. Therefore, there would also be the same change in the father's case as in the case of cash aid for motherhood. This dose has not been excluded from the proposal and the basis for the assessment is regulated by the same provision. However, the explanatory memorandum does not indicate that the applicant's intention would also be to abolish the reduction limit for this new levy. The proposal does not contain transitional provisions, which would mean to recalculate at the date of entry into force of the law all currently paid cash assistance in maternity, paternity and compensation contributions in pregnancy and maternity, which would mean a significant administrative burden for the Czech Social Security Administration again and again. That is probably all I have to say about the rapporteur. I will add that the Ministry of Finance has adopted a fundamentally negative opinion on this proposal. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has adopted a negative position and the Government has adopted a neutral position. I would also ask for an extension of this amendment to 90 days in committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u11	Yes. Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening a general debate. It has Mrs Langšádlová, Richterová and Mr Kaňkovský signed up, but President Stanjura has applied with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u12	Thank you for the floor. I want to say for our club that we will support this proposal. I think if the cost is 832 million or one billion, it's irrelevant. Within the state budget numbers, we work with the number one billion, we don't have to argue about the 168 million. I believe the number of the Labor Department has been calculated precisely. On the other hand, if we put the adjective on it that it's a big blackout and a big cost, it's 17 percent of what's to be paid annually on a discounted fare. And when I was talking here yesterday about the 170 billions found available, so one billion isn't enough to set equal rules in family politics, because that's the family policy of the state. The proposal seems right to us, and we will definitely support the release for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u13	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Langšádlová's application is first in line, and Mrs Richterová will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been figures, there have been arguments why not. I have to say, I completely refuse. What's important to us? Is it important for us whether we have an expenditure that can reach up to one billion, or is it important for us that there are good conditions for women with higher incomes, higher education, to have as many children as possible? What is in our interest? What is in the interests of our future? Because the families concerned by this proposal are those who pay the biggest contributions and pay the biggest contributions not only to sickness insurance, from which this benefit is paid, but to pay the biggest social security contributions and to pay the biggest taxes. Is it fair or is it not fair to support them? It's fair for me. This proposal is fair. And it's in the interests of not only the families, but all of us who live here. It doesn't matter what happens. I know, someone can say: motivation for us to have children was never whether and what doses they are. That's also true. But it is a great symbol of how we appreciate these families. [[9.40 hours]] And let's see where we stand. The birth rate went up a little bit year-on-year. Today, I think she's reaching 1.7 babies per woman. Is that enough to reproduce? Well, it's not enough to have a clean reproduction. In order not to die, we would have to have at least 2.1 children for one woman. We're dying. Almost all of Europe is dying. That's reality. Except France, I suspect. It is a reality, but it is a very serious matter, and it is related to many other factors that we are following in Europe. Of course, whether or not people have children is not just due to social benefits. This is due to their personal decision, for example. Germany shows us that the richer countries, the fewer children, and even in the eastern part where they are poorer today, have more children than in the western part. So it's not just due to economic conditions, and I'm aware of that. But it also plays a crucial role in the services for families, the possibility of reconciliation of professional and family life, many of the things we talk about. But I think this proposal has a big symbol. A great symbol in that we really appreciate people who have reached a certain standard of living, who have some professional status, who are taking large taxes into our common state budget and have decided to have children. They decided to have children. And they are very often families that at the same time provide for their housing, which pay off large sums of money to secure their mortgages. And it really does, even if they have decent income, so when you just pay the mortgage and the woman stays home and goes down immediately, because the mother is very limited, so for a lot of these families that are otherwise good, that's a big economic problem. Here was said by the rapporteur - the impact on the state budget. Yes, the impact on the state budget is and we must not hide it, but I believe it is a very good investment because it is an investment in our future. And it is in the interest of our entire society that these families, those women who have achieved higher education and also a good social position in their profession, should have children. I believe that this is in our interest, and I believe that we should support this proposal, if we care about our future. That's why I'd like to ask you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u15	Thank you. Mr Bojko will respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u16	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would respond, through Mr President, to my colleague, Langšádlová. Let us not caste people with higher - lower education. Because it's not just about people with higher education. There are cases I know personally - a firefighter who puts his life on a daily basis has a wife who works as a social worker who distributes lunches to old people, and their earnings exceed the limit here by 500 crowns so they don't even get birth benefits. So I wouldn't just blame it on people with higher education, academics, etc., it's a common middle class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u17	Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová will respond with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u18	Thank you for the floor. I also want to respond through the President to the previous speaker. I appreciate all the people, all the families who receive children and who raise them well. However, this proposal is fair. It is fair, because it concerns those who simply pay significantly higher amounts into the system, and then I believe that it is really fair for them to have more support, because de facto they deserve it in the contributions they make to the state budget. But really, let's talk about how our priority is to have more children here, and to create the best possible conditions for those families that have children, and to express in many other ways that we appreciate those families who have children and take good care of them, and that we are aware that this is a fundamental question of our future. So I certainly appreciate all the people, all the families, but this proposal is fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u19	Thank you. Mrs Richterová will now speak in the general debate, and Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u20	Well, first of all, I would like to thank the Chancellor again for the step, because that is really a necessity for me. And then one more comment for the introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now one of the very few points where most women perform, and it seems that we may have a balanced representation in the House, so I like that, too. But to the matter itself. Basically, it's a matter of encouraging families not to be afraid to have more children to want more children, it's clear that there's something that matters a lot to the pirát, and I can speak from my own experience that it's really not funny. But what I'm going to talk about mostly is that the main topic is how to better combine some involvement in work, some maintenance skills and that care, baby care. So, I would like to start by stressing that, in fact, the debate today might seem reduced purely to money, purely to increase the sickness benefit called maternity assistance, but at the same time, what the discussion should be mainly about is flexible and shortened worktimes, just the best possible and most diverse offer of care for young children, which, among other things. means increasing the salaries of teachers and sometimes teachers in kindergartens. And then, of course, we have children's groups, their anchoring, to support them in the long term, so that they are not just as long as they are subsidies from the European Union. So, first of all, I'm stressing that from analysis, from many studies, the priority for families, let's say, middle class and higher, is more the main choice, the ability to schedule time between some small-time and care, just between maintaining qualifications, keeping ourselves in some way in the society where man was before. I would like to give an example of Česká spořitelna, which has had a great project Čáp for many years. If you don't know it, it's actually a simple thing. In recent years it was that eight times a year they invited their employees to parent and parent meetings for one day, told them news, gave them training, in short eight times a year one day to keep in touch with employment, to maintain qualifications - and, of course, to keep the babysitter safe. This project is unique in our country and, for example, in the UK, such approaches are quite common. This is exactly the path worth supporting. In the state administration, for example. As far as I know, there's no such system-supporting thing. And now to this central idea of how to perceive whether we will symbolically support this symbol by canceling the reduction for one sick benefit, we will cancel the ceiling, whether we will really contribute so much to increasing birth rate and supporting families. That is indeed a question to which the draft law does not give an answer. I did not find references to studies that would show that in countries where a species is significantly higher, it is reflected in the birth rate. More likely, birth rates really affect the ability to reconcile work and care. In a situation where a lot of families really have huge problems, when one of the parents who is a breadwinner, who also has a ceiling, is also a reduced base, and in a situation where this really is a real problem, I'm not sure we should go through the salami method and reach into the sickness benefit system. [[9.50 hours]] And the last point - such a practical objection. Imagine how you would behave yourself if you were a self-employed person and knew that you were planning a child. Imagine that you are two people in a free profession, and a year in advance, the couple agree that they would have planned the child that way. Then, in such a case, if we accept this, it offers a way of optimizing, namely writing invoices simply on the woman so that the mother's outcome is as high as possible. I know this may sound awkward right now, but this is exactly the path of unexpected optimization that this proposal could take. So please, let's talk about whether to somehow increase the cash contribution in motherhood and by how much, but certainly not by as much as it is presented in the proposed proposal. And I think that the real merit of the matter is the promotion of care for young children, the support of the conditions in which we take care of children in kindergarten, the promotion of what salaries those teachers have there, the support of children's groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u21	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Mr Klaus, will now respond with factual comments in this order. President Kalousek is next with his point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u22	Thank you for the floor. Let me give you a brief response to my previous speaker. After all, we do not claim, and it would be quite misguided that physicality is related to material prosperity. If that were the case, the Euro-Atlantic space is experiencing an unprecedented birth boom, while the world's poorest regions would slowly die out. It's exactly the opposite. But the point is, it's just unfair. Some pay like weird and then take almost as much as those who pay very little. And that, in the case of such a crucial thing as maternity leave, is equality, which we consider unfair. And we think that she should be honored especially by how much she contributes, not by the equality of the stomach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u23	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to respond to the previous speaker too, just in a slightly different way. Of course, one bill does not have an ambition to solve the whole family policy in the Czech Republic. It's impossible. Well, we'd have to talk about the concept now, if that's the case, but it's not the answer either, because the concept isn't the law. So I am aware and agree that the great motivation, for example, for the adoption of another child into the family, is often the possibility for these families to reconcile working and family life, childcare services, etc. I totally agree with this and I strongly support such changes. We are going to submit a draft law with other colleagues, which will, in turn, help to set up part-time jobs and certain injustices that exist there, etc. So I support the children's groups, in fact, in a few days' time here in the House, we are holding a seminar with the auspices of the Social Policy Committee that I came up with, with the initiative, me, and we are actually organising it just to make the children's groups work better, to make them more accessible, etc. So I think I can only underline all of this, that I realize it and that it's true, and we're dealing with these things, but that doesn't mean that then we should automatically consider this other tool to be less important. The fact that there is no study according to yours, I can add, of course, but it is not quite usual for us to supply such extensive materials as part of the explanatory report. Of course, there is no problem with further reading and discussing in committee such foreign experience and practice as it works elsewhere. So I agree with a whole range of what has been said here, but I cannot agree that this should be a reason not to support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u25	Thank you. Mr Klaus's point of fact follows. In the meantime, I will introduce you to the fact that Mr Gazdík apologizes from the Chamber of Deputies meeting today due to a doctor's visit. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u26	Hello. I will also use a factual remark on what it is intended to do, to respond to my previous speaker. When you've been giving examples of these entrepreneurs how they're gonna speculate on who to write invoices on, and those high-level managers, I'm gonna give you a personal experience. I've always had high incomes as a manager, we've never gotten anything. And in life, when we wanted to have a baby, it didn't happen on what he was doing or not doing the state. So I would moderate a little bit of the idea that Members accept the law, and that makes people have more children. Social benefits are not meant to be for rich people, such as housing social benefits, which usually end up in the pockets of housing entrepreneurs. But this isn't a welfare benefit. This is support for families with children. And families, whether they're poor, rich, big, tiny, they're all the same, which is why they're supposed to be the same for everyone, which is why I'm going to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u27	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Richterová will now speak. Mr Munzar's point of view will also follow. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u28	Thank you for the floor. Just a very brief response to Mr. Kalousek. Basically, he said when he said we were being unfair unless we wanted to support this, that unfair is actually the whole sickness system, the whole sickness insurance system. I would like to return the discussion to the question of the extent that it is really about the extent to which we will give ourselves the principle of solidarity to the principle of merit, the principle that, as a society, we are talking about about about about one billion and about how best it will be used, whether it will be to support kindergartens, children's groups, or microjesles, or directly into the pockets of individual people. And this is a discussion about the extent, not about some absolute things. So if the whole illness is unfair, then we don't agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u29	Thank you. Mr Munzar's point of fact. After that, Mr Sklenák, Kalousek, Mrs Langšádlová, are registered with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to the speech, but to the previous one, Mrs Richterová, who does not listen, through Mr President. [[Mrs Richter is having fun with her fellow partners. After warning, he draws attention to the speaker.]] Thank you. Madam, I was surprised at the conclusion of your performance. I would also agree with you that it is necessary to think about the short-term jobs and the support for women to be able to, if they want or need to be able to return to the work process. However, I was surprised by the last remark that there might be optimizations, which is why you will not support it. I'm fascinated by the permanent distrust of our citizens, our people. This really doesn't affect my nature, what you said, because I think we should trust people first, and if we trust people, they'll trust us. That's one. And secondly, I find this proposal fairer, far more fair to give one billion, or to pass on one billion state budget to help the middle class that puts the most in the state budget, to help their families and their children. It seems more fair to me than, for example, a free fare that costs six billion, eight billion we saw in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u31	Thank you. Let me introduce you to the order of factual remarks. Members of Sklenák, Kalousek, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Juchelka, Mrs Richterová, Mr Ferjenčík. I beg Mr Sklenák and his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u32	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Klaus said that we are discussing a law that is the support of families with children. And I'm not quite sure that the support of families with children should be addressed by the amendment to the Health Insurance Act. I am certainly one of those people who strongly support families with children, supporting working families with children. Let me just remind you that, in the last parliamentary term, I have tabled parliamentary amendments here, which we have significantly, but have indeed significantly increased tax relief for working families with children. Especially those who have more children, so it really is important help. We have approved a number of other legislative measures here that support families with children. So let us not talk at all about the fact that working families with children deserve our support and the need to support them. We're in agreement on that. But let us remember that the sickness insurance law has some income and some expenses, and basically, as the name of the law suggests, it provides certain benefits to people who are in a state of illness, in other words, in a state where they cannot pursue their profession, and from a certain point of view, they are also mothers just before and after childbirth. And let's remember that if we increase the expenditure for this group of people, we're gonna have to deal with it somehow, whether on the income side or on the spending cut to somebody else's. So my opinion is that we should probably not be dealing with this law to support families with children. And then one more friendly advice from a colleague, the rapporteur. She proposed extending the deadline to 90 days, but she did so in her intelligence report. It is necessary to repeat this, if necessary, in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u33	I thank Mr Sklenák for keeping time on the point of fact. And that's what we're going to continue to do. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, with a factual remark. Good morning, and I hope we'll be quick. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u34	I think I can respond to both the previous speaker and the previous speaker. Of course, every ongoing system, whether sick, health, pension, has a certain degree of solidarity and a certain degree of merit in it. And now we can have a discussion about whether there's too much equality or too little equality, and we'll each have a little different opinions about that. But that's not what I'm talking about right now. I'm talking about the fact that, as much as maternity leave is paid billably according to sickness insurance and belongs to the welfare category, for God's sakes, it's not a disease. It's not a disease! And with that look, we should watch it. And if we said it was some percentage of the paycheck that that mom gets when she gives birth, then the percentage should be given without a splash, because it's unfair. Of course, in the case of pension and real sickness insurance in the word disease, it is already debatable. But in the case of maternity leave, I insist, Madame, that maternity is not a disease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We continue with the factual remark of Mrs Helena Langšádlová, Mr Juchelka will also prepare for a factual remark. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Yes, it was said here that we should put more money into children's groups, micro-doubts, yes, yes, that's true. But we have to have the kids that are gonna go in there. And we're in a situation where there's not even a simple reproduction of society. We're just dying. And I really consider it something absolutely fundamental about our future. And the situation is serious. I, through Mr President, have great sympathy for Mrs Richterová, who is a wonderful linker and brings together her professional and family life. And I'm sure there's a lot of questions about the pro-family policy that we've been dealing with. Which we discussed even when I was chairman of the family committee and which we will certainly be dealing with, and we must look at this comprehensively. But I'm sure the question for me is whether women who are on maternity leave should not be able to work for a little time in order to maintain that contact. I'd really like us to talk about this. It's not at the expense of the kids, it's important. These women often want to work part-time and stay in touch with their profession. Of course, whether or not we have children is our personal decision. But with a huge social impact. And when I was talking about Germany, they're in a situation where there are countries, like Hamburg, where a third of women don't already have children. Do you know what it means in society when a third of women don't have children? I understand that this can always happen, and when it's in a situation that this woman may not be able to have children. But if a third of women don't have children in some society, that's a huge social impact. And if you look at who it is, they're women with the highest education and income. Isn't that bad? I believe that this is wrong and that it is not just a personal question for those women and families, but it concerns all of us and our future. And that's why this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Ferjenčík will also be prepared for a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the floor. I can say about the system whether it's fair or unfair, I think it's obviously a question of solidarity. Solidarity with those who earn more and who earn less. Of course, we can discuss how much solidarity is acceptable or not. Of course, my wife and I did not start a family to somehow count our finances. On the contrary, we founded it because we loved each other, the first, the second, the third child. I believe that the reconciliation of family and working life really depends on how we support this family policy comprehensively as a whole. How we have the availability of services in our surroundings, etc. But if we focus, be it sickness insurance, if you have a third child born to you like us who are affected, a wife who has three colleges has to stay home with the child, she has been home with the child for 15 years. And taking care of a person close to me, which I think also has something to do with it, because then the income goes down really fast, even in the future from the point of view of retirement etc., so I think this is another problem in order to support family finances in this spirit. So caring for a person close to me in this sort of way resonates from my personal perspective. Otherwise, I look forward to the guarantee committee being the Social Policy Committee where we will discuss this. I agree that we should, of course, discuss this in 90 days in some way. And I also want to make a point about other people who talk about women all the time. If a woman's income is higher, I know families who go to maternity care for a man. He's going on so-called. fatherly. So let's say mother and father. Because if a woman in the family has a higher income, I know the families where the father takes care of the baby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u39	Mr. Ambassador, you were just within the limits of a factual remark. Mr Ferjenčík is now also making a point of fact. Mrs Pekarová is also after him with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u40	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to explain to my colleague, Mr Munzar, through the President, what we meant about the optimization. We have absolutely nothing against businessmen taking advantage of the legal options they have, how to pay less on taxes, if that is in accordance with all the regulations. We merely pointed out that if the partner and partner e.g. both provide consulting services, and they can choose which of them will bill it, and they can do it completely legally and cooperate, and the classic thing is that one training is written on a partner, the other on a partner, and they try to make it work out in a reasonable way to make the taxes work. And it's perfectly okay, and no one objects to it. But I would point out that a one-time change in the system would allow one of them to draw 100 percent of the salary, respectively. A very high percentage can lead to them just to optimize that year and a half so that it really pays off. Besides, it's happening all the time today. Women get rewards before they go on maternity leave, and it's totally fine. I do not object to this at all, just pointing out that there is a real risk that the couple with very significantly above average income after leaving the woman on maternity leave can receive actually more money in total than before, which I think colleagues on the right consider desirable, but I am not quite sure that this is the situation that we want to achieve when we adjust the parameters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u41	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u42	Thank you for the floor. We wanted to draw attention to this potential problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u43	Mrs Pekarová Adamová, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u44	Thank you for the floor. Although I wanted to respond to something else, I hope I can make it in those two minutes, but now I have to respond to the previous speaker, because I do not think that this is how it will turn out, through the President, my colleague. But let's talk about it, let's get this processed, maybe on a case-by-case basis. It's not that simple with the FDA. Of course, the calculation is a little determined by having the maximum possibility of contributions and on sickness etc. So I'd say we're not going to solve this at first reading here, but we need some even better evidence to do it. However, I wanted to respond to what my colleague Sklenák said here about the fact that, in fact, during the last parliamentary term, a number of support laws were going on for families, e.g. tax discounts, etc. I would like to point out that we have the second highest tax discounts within the OECD. We no longer have anywhere to raise them, or it is actually a little bit against the sense that family politics consists of three pillars. The one is just tax discounts and reliefs for families, it is of course okay and it is specific assistance, the other is services for families, which we have also touched on here, whether it is a nursery, a children's group, we can talk about a whole range of other types of services, and then of course it is a batch level and these are support in the form of parental, other types of benefits. Really here this particular, even if it is also called a dose, I do not see as a dose in the right sense of the word as a birth, because there is really a difference between whether it is linked to your previous income in the sense that it is maternal, or whether the parental contribution for example is just as high for everyone, it just depends on how quickly they exhaust it, and of course the amount changes monthly, but in sum it's 220 grand, it doesn't matter if you were previously earning 150 grand, ten or another amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u45	Madame, you too have finished your time on a point of fact. Now, Mr Munzar, who probably wants to make a point again, so please, Mr Munzar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, I want to respond through you, Mr President, to Mr Ferjenčík. You know, I understand what you mean, we're the only ones who really differ in the world's vision. You assume that part of the people, husband and wife are in the same business together, they have two business papers, and this can happen. How many of these people in the majority society are there, and how much of this case will make such a thing? That's a very marginal, minority case. And we're not gonna make laws here, and we're not gonna be afraid of the law, because some little pardon might do that. This is a law for majority society. We need to think about most of the people in this country. And what you've repeated here really shows one thing. You approach people, and it's not the first case, it's not the first case of the pirate party's opinion that you approach people with permanent distrust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u47	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and we have one more factual remark from Mrs Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u48	Thank you for the floor. Really, I think this discussion is about thinking about all the aspects of this thing, and we're trying to think about it, in depth, which I think should be taken for granted. What's most important is to look at the optics of what the maternal means, i.e. six months' support. What is absolutely crucial is what support looks like in the so-called. Parents, those three years. We're really talking about something that's usually six weeks before birth, and then five months after that, but that's the key time when income is going down and when people are having the biggest problems, is actually the time when we could take advantage of our current parental contribution, which is equal to the dose, just the same for everyone, and let's just do the part-time job - and now I'm going to say what we can't do today - at the same job position. I know it's legally complicated, but that's exactly the kind of thing that's ridiculous today that you guys work somewhere, you have ties, you know, you're on that maternity leave, you're with the kid, he's gonna be eight to ten months old, you might need to keep your qualifications and a little bit of work for one day a week, but you can't, if you want to have the parent, because you can't be in the same position. So this is the moment where I think we're in a difficult situation as a society, that then they don't really put the three years on parental ability to somehow keep in touch what they should logically give. So this often -- the inaccessibility, the real inaccessibility of baby care, the absence of children's groups, the little support for high-quality, diverse kindergartens, those are really the key things. I know, it would be nice if we could all have a mother like our salary, of course, would be nice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u49	Madame, your time for a point of fact has come to an end. And this was a typical example of abuse of a factual remark instead of a speech in a proper debate. I will ask you, if you want to speak in the debate, the debate is open. In fact, we respond to another Member's speech. I remind you of the Rules of Procedure Act. Now, with Mrs Pekarová's point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u50	Thank you for the floor, I hope that I will not break the Rules of Procedure now, because I will respond to the previous speaker, but I actually want to assure through the President that I also perceive this and I know that this is a problem, what you mentioned here about the impossibility of working in the same position. So I challenge you with this, let's work on it, it's a different law, let's present it together and there's no problem. But we don't have to overshadow this proposal by having some gaps in other parts of family policy that need to be fixed, but let's talk about them separately when we actually deal with them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u51	I thank Mrs Pekarová for her factual remark and for her time. We are returning to the duly signed up for the debate. Now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u52	Good morning, Mr President. Dear member of the government, dear colleagues, I would like to share with you the position of the KDU-ČSL club on this amendment to the sickness insurance law. KDU-ČSL will support this amendment. We believe that the current situation, when middle-income and higher-income women are discriminated against and actually punished for having average incomes before their motherhood, is inappropriate and we believe that, even as demographic developments develop in our Republic and what the birth rate has grown in recent years, it still does not cover the natural decline of the population, so we believe that the state is obliged to do everything to improve the birth rate in our country. I realize very well, and it has already been said here in several variations, that this is just one of the possible measures, and I would certainly not overestimate it, but on the other hand, it is necessary to tell those mothers-to-be that we do not make a difference in our approach to how we appreciate their taking maternity. There have been a lot of discussions here about the things that need to be done in pro-family policy, there have been a lot of arguments, a lot of things that are not going very well in our society at the moment, and for those families to have another child, although I think it's always a personal decision. However, you need to see the limits. There's been talk of flexible jobs. I know from my practice that this is indeed a very fundamental problem for women today, and let us really agree on measures, legislative and non-legislative, which we will do in this regard. But there are other things that limit these families, and I think maybe some of them haven't spoken yet. [[10.20 hours]] As I talk to people around me, it is one big limit for young families when they think about it, not even if they get their first child, but if they get a second or third child, the limit of available housing is the available quality housing. These are limits that often discourage young families from considering multiple parenting, and this is also one big task that we have unfortunately failed to complete in the last parliamentary term, and it is a great task for this parliamentary term, for this House. So the KDU-ČSL Club will support this novel. I just want to put in a good word for discussing the parameters of the law in the committees. I think there may be some adjustments to be considered, but let us release this bill to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u53	I thank Mr Vít Kaňkovský and, therefore, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who is now duly applied for. Mrs Procházková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Allow me, too, to contribute to this amendment proposal within the framework of the discussion. I think there's really been a lot of saying here, and I'm gonna try to be shorter than I'm used to. Anyway, I'm taking the liberty of responding to some of the performances, because not all of them I think are based on the truth, or maybe it's better to straighten things out. At the beginning, let me say that this group of insured people may have a more pronounced fall in the standard of living than before the start of maternity leave, but it must also be seen that the purpose of the sickness insurance scheme is to replace only the appropriate amount of the income, not to compensate the income quite, when applying the principle of solidarity, as the rapporteur has already mentioned. I must also say that, in fact, more money would be paid from the state budget, and I must stress that, for example, more paternity, birth care, long-term infirmary have been introduced in the previous term, and maybe, if it succeeds, it could be the cancellation of the period. And it's all the big expenses that have the reach of sickness insurance. And now maybe I'd like to talk to the debaters in front of me. I'm sorry, maybe I'll take it in bulk. Don't be mad at me, but I see here that we're actually making a difference in society, and we prefer a certain group of families. One fact. We need to distinguish maternity leave, which is about six months, and parental leave. There I think we can probably say that on parental leave, Mrs Richterová is proof of this, she can work, there is no condition that she can't, because if she couldn't, she doesn't sit here, and on maternity leave, as my colleague Langšádlová said, that mommy or parent in general can choose or would like to work, stay at work all the time, he doesn't have to get on maternity leave. That's one simple fact, and I'm a shining example of it, and I didn't get in either. So more or less the income that mommy or parent has had so far in general, so he can still receive it. Depends on how they'll take care of the baby. Second fact. We are talking about the fact that health insurance spending is constantly increasing and, of course, income is still on some wave, even if it is now increasing or unemployment is decreasing, while income should also be increasing. Unfortunately, that doesn't happen that fast. But is there one fact that has been here in the past, why hasn't the ceiling been lifted on social security contributions for the richest? Why is it still left, it failed, and at the same time we say here that we want to increase our income above 70,000? So I think it should go along with that, yes, but let's increase the income to sickness insurance by canceling the ceilings. Health insurance did it. And let me just say, my three-year-old daughter also uses: Mommy, it's fair, it's not fair. I feel that he understands this very much, too, and I understand that he uses it within his own expression, but I think that we really should not favour one group of residents and leave it to parents to choose freely what kind of care and form they want to give to their child. And one more statistic says that rich families aren't really the ones who are giving birth. They really aren't! It is the middle class and rather socially weak people. That's one simple fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u55	I thank Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, and before we continue the debate, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek has made a point of fact. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Can we even act? Is anybody here from the government? I will continue, that is your concern, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u57	I have begun to measure your time, Mr President, but it is true that I have not noticed. I'm going to ask an ANO representative to get someone from the government, and of course I'm going to start measuring your time again when someone from the government arrives. I do not want to violate the Rules of Procedure and it is true that at least one member of the Government must be at the hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u58	Apparently, families with children don't care much about the government. The government works elsewhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u59	We're waiting. I don't think apologies are enough to get anybody from the government here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u60	Do you want me to wait?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u61	Wait, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'll measure your time again as soon as I have a chance. Okay. [[After a while, Minister Vojtěch comes in.]] Mr. Minister of Health! Mr Pavel Bělobrádek has the floor on a point of fact. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u62	Thank you. I do not have the exact dates, but I think that what the honourable Member said stops paying, and that now the ratio is changing, and people are sleeping with higher education and higher incomes now have children more than they used to be. Of course, there remain groups of those who have very low incomes and children have a lot of them all the time, but middle class and lower middle class, those who go to work and have just average and below-average salaries, so children are not as common with them as they are in recent years in those families where incomes and education are higher. I think it's something I read somewhere, so maybe it's worth a look. These sociological trends just exist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u63	I thank Mr Pavel Bělobrádek for his point of fact and for his time, and we will continue with Mrs Procházková's speech. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to join a little bit in the mill myself. I will certainly vote in favour of the next reading, for these arguments. First of all, I represent thousands of nurses and doctors who, immediately after finding out they are pregnant, leave for incapacity to work. This reduces their standard of living before giving birth and after giving birth. So I'm sure these nurses and doctors who have middle, sometimes even higher incomes deserve attention. Plus, there's another argument. Once a child is born, each family immediately has a much higher cost, because today every child, and the more they are at home, the more costs they are, and therefore I agree with the argument that the standard of living will be reduced. That's right. On the other hand, on the other hand, I would very much like all the arguments or requests made by Mrs Pastuchová to amend some of the laws and other things to be settled at the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Procházková. Mr Leo Luzar, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, is prepared to make a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you through my previous speaker - I listened carefully to her speech and I was impressed by one thing when she spoke about representing thousands of nurses and doctors - I will paraphrase, I am sorry, that is not accurate - which immediately after finding out that they are pregnant, they are going to be sick, and that is why they are lowering their standard of living. In other words, right after the pregnancy was discovered. They're leaving for what reason? Because when she's pregnant, she can't work anymore? Otherwise, they leave six weeks before birth, or how much time is there. So that's how it's understood. Medical personnel know that if they get pregnant, immediately go to sick leave, especially not work, because? Try explaining that term immediately goes to sick leave, because in this view, I find it misleading. Second thing. It would only be about doctors from the group you say you're defending her. For nurses with their income that they have, and under this proposal, which, in my opinion, they will not fall into it at all. So again, the group you're saying you're defending here is going to be heavily limited to the most income, and these are the doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u67	Thank you for keeping time. She will respond with a factual remark by Mrs Pastuchová as rapporteur. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u68	I would like to respond to Mr Luzar through Mr President. If that's how I feel, I'm gonna be specific, and I'm saying it's wrong, but a rescue nurse who finds out she's pregnant, she just can't keep working, she can't go to the exit because someone's gonna kick her in the stomach and she's sick. So she has to stay right away, she can't go to dispatch because she doesn't know the job. So the rescue nurse specifically, once she finds out she's pregnant, she has to stay home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u69	Thank you. Now one more point in fact, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, therefore, to respond by your means to the rapporteur. I have to say, I understand, but I don't think that's the gros we're discussing right now in this novel. This is a situation not only for health professionals but also in other areas, and this should be dealt with in a very different way. But we're talking about a health insurance amendment. I'm just stressing that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u71	Thank you. Mrs Procházková also made a point of fact. I'm sure my colleague Gajdůškovášková is patient, so she'll last. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u72	My factual point about both previous speakers. Yes, that's right, a doctor, but also a nurse. I quote, for example, ARO nurses who are highly risky and infectious leave for risky work incapacity. Often, precisely because their incomes are reduced, they go away to risk incapacity for work as long as possible and hide their pregnancy. This, of course, risks changes in the first trimester to the fetus, and it may happen that they will give birth to a not-so-healthy child. So, yes, it is. And I understand that this may not have anything to do with this novel, but I said it as an example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u73	Thank you. One more factual point, virtually. Two. First, Mr Juchelka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u74	Hello again. I wouldn't like this discussion to be flattered just by the finances, to say that having children in our family lowers our standard of living, that having children is actually expensive. It's not like that. Having children is primarily a joy in the family. This is the one we should stick to. Let's not just make the debate about finance, costs, living standards, etc. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u75	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar's point of order now. He'll prepare for a factual remark by Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u76	Thank you for the floor. I apologize for the fact, but I admit it, I don't get it. Pregnancy is a disease? I don't think pregnancy is a disease, so if those nurses can't do the jobs they're working on because it's risky, so it's a problem on the employer's side that they can't offer them another job and they should match the assignment, not that they're forcing her to go to sick leave. Then we adopt the rule that pregnancy is a disease, and there is abuse of sickness benefits. She can work. And if she can work and an employer who can't offer her a job makes her go to sick leave, it's abuse of the system, and that's a whole other problem that we should look at if there's no circumvention by the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher also made a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I thought I would not speak to this, but I have to respond to my colleague Aulická through Mr President. I'm not gonna have an economic lecture here on the degree of solidarity, the degree of merit, etc. That would be a long time. However, I did not understand at all the contribution that, with this proposal, the petitioner is trying to support a group. I don't understand. Because so far it is that the reduction limits are set at the moment, and we also have a personal experience with this in our family, in such a way that I think rather the medium-income ones - I would talk about them here, not that you always choose those who have a hundred thousand and more, that's not what we're talking about here - are bits today. So I'm wondering-- we're talking about something that didn't even go through the second reading, and you're already talking about someone being horny. I think it's exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We have two more factual points - Mrs Procházková and Mrs Aulická. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u80	To my predecessor, Luzar, through Mr President. Believe that it happens very often that two or three sisters suddenly get pregnant in the ARO departments and basically all the departments that are at risk in the hospital today. And you would imagine that we would send these sisters to the offices? 'Cause they can't just work in those departments where there's an infection. That's one point. And second point. Sisters who work at the ARO, who have night services that raise heavy patients, not only belong to a middle-income group, with services they really have over 30,000, but the risk to them during pregnancy is really high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Procházková. Now, the de facto remark made by Mrs Hana Aulická. Mr Svoboda also made a point of fact. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to respond through you to a colleague named Nacher. I'm sure it'll be the last time. I would just like to emphasise - I have responded to the previous debate that was here, because there has been more or less talk about high-income families, and I have to say that the amendment also talks about allowing high-income families, and it is stressed that there are the most families that are affected. But I, above all, responded to the previous discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u83	Thank you, Mrs Aulická, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's factual remark, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, duly applied for. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u84	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. The issue of the inability of doctors and health professionals during pregnancy is extremely complex. I know something about it, I've been dealing with it my whole life. The risks to the profession are great and it is very difficult to avoid them. It's just a typical example of what we shouldn't be discussing right now, because now we're discussing whether the law will go to second reading. Only this problem is so serious that the law deserves to go through the second reading, and there we can talk about it, and then I can tell you about half an hour about what the issue of inability is in pregnancy, at its first stage, at its second stage, what the impact for those patients is, how they can't be reassigned, and we can discuss it properly. Here, if we're going to discuss this in the actual notes, it's completely pointless. My challenge is, let's let the law go into second reading and we can talk about it all. It is an extremely, extremely important thing that will also help gynecologists, because their work in this area is more than difficult and risky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u85	Thank you for keeping time. Before we proceed with Mrs Richterová's further factual remark, I shall read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Řehounek apologizes between 12.30 and 14.00 for reasons of work. Now, therefore, Mrs Richterová's factual point and Mrs Gajdůškovášková is still waiting. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u86	Just in response to the debate, so as not to break the Rules of Procedure, I would like to stress that it is not true bonmot, that many good and interesting speeches have already been heard in the House, but yet none that would make the others change their minds. Maybe I'm convinced from the discussion today that it's really good to keep talking about it in the second reading, and I'm glad that this discussion is that relevant, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u87	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, who patiently waited for the actual remarks to come to an end. Please, madam, you have the floor, Mrs Maxová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u88	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Svoboda and Mrs Richterová have already taken the wind from my sails a little bit, because when I waited so patiently here through factual remarks, I had to confirm that it is a good thing that this proposal is here, because it is clear that the debate is needed and important. So thanks to the submitters for that. I admit that I always set it up so I don't know what should be worth more support than children. And the pro-population policy, and I've already talked about it, I think, the last time I talked about it in the school law, it's from the analyses that sociologists did, it works for the more or less middle-income families. Those people are really wondering if the next kid, especially the next kid, is gonna make a living, if they can take care of them, etc. So every step that will help these groups, which will support them in the care of their children, is good, because it means, and I repeat again, that those parents then have as many children as they really want. And the analysis says most families want around those two kids, but as I know the numbers, most families have, or the biggest percentage of families have only one child, and that's just not good. But the debate on this bill should also be about whether it is not actually surviving that we are paying maternity leave or parental leave today from sickness insurance. This is really for debate, because even the arguments that have been made by my colleagues in the sense that if we increase this place, we will miss it somewhere else, and yet, as the professor of Svoboda said through the President and pregnancy, motherhood is a physiological state, it is not a disease, it should not be a disease. So the debate may also be on this subject. And of course, there must be a debate about those parameters, as suggested. But we're not gonna do that anywhere but on the committee and just in case we let it go to second reading. So I intercede in order to release this proposal into committee negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u89	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. Now, Mrs Věra Adámková's factual point, is still being prepared by Mrs Maxová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is really worthy of our attention, because this is a very important and interesting issue. And just as far as the receipts go, where there was a fear that we wouldn't happen to care about those multi-income groups, have you seen the initial salaries of doctors and nurses? Don't worry, they're really more at the bottom of the spectrum that's taking place, so the starting salary is about 21,000, and I really don't think it's a high-income group. So let's focus on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u91	Thank you, Mrs Adámková, for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Radka Maxová, Mrs Balaštíková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just briefly. I think that we are each responsible for our decisions, for our family, but if the family finds itself in a certain life situation, the state should help her or in some way not take care of her in a hundred percent, but, of course, in some way secure her. Among these, of course, I am counting in some way the issue that we are dealing with today. The principle of merit and solidarity should, of course, be maintained, but it is also necessary to look at merit in the pension system. It is true that sickness insurance has been surplus in the last parliamentary term, but thanks to our legislative adjustments, whether it is a fatherly, long-term infirmary or an increase in support for long-term unemployment, this account has exhausted and is a question, although it is one of the best-chosen accounts, whether we will be in surplus this year. Within the European Union, we can boast of tax relief for families, we are in place number one maybe even worldwide. On the other hand, according to the European Union, we have a large deficit in support of families within pre-school facilities, basically a lack of places, crèches, children's groups, and, of course, in support of flexible jobs, shared places, partial home offices, etc. For my part, I think that this House press needs to be released for second reading for many reasons. We need to talk about family support. In the Committee on Social Policy, I think that even now, thanks to a change in the opinion of the pirát, that they want to release them to second reading, and because the Communist Party has not put forward a motion for rejection, I assume that there will be a big debate, at least about the level of the reduction limit. I think that even the petitioner is willing to talk about the amount of this reduction limit so that we can find a way together. Of course, last but not least, there is a really systemic need to address the pro-family policy, although I do not like the word, but we have to address child allowances, parental contribution, pre-school education support, support for part-time jobs and many other things, but not exactly as approved by the pro-family concept in the previous parliamentary term. And since I assume a great debate, as I see from my colleagues here, at least on the Committee on Social Policy, I propose that we extend the deadline to the committee meeting by 20 days, that is to say, 80 according to the Rules of Procedure. And I am also glad that my colleague Procházková pointed out that we need to remedy some of the shortcomings mentioned in the intelligence report and work very intensively with both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to find a compromise. So I intercede for the second reading, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u93	Thank you, Mrs Radka Maxová. Before I give the floor to Mrs Margita Balaštíková, I note that Mr kolovratník has a replacement card number 5. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u94	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I just want to join those who are discussing that it's not really a disease, but we have to protect those moms in some way. It's just that we're talking about health care right now, but I'd like to give another look at employers, because there's definitely a sector where a woman gets pregnant, even though she's healthy, able to work, so you have a problem with where she is, because here it's not said that you have to respect health and safety at work. And agriculture is really an area where you need to put that woman somewhere else instantly. And let's say, if you get three or four women pregnant, you're not able to give them another job in this industry. You're not. You're having trouble getting a replacement for her. And if the state doesn't help these types of employers and doesn't take care of that mom, because she's definitely going down with the salary, that's a problem. And I'd like us to look at this thing from the other side. If we want to support a national policy at all, then we need to be able to support the employers and somehow foolishly support it. And let's not accept that everyone wants to use our system. It's not true. And I can tell you that it happened to me as an employer, and I had a lot to do to even replace that worker. I mean, we're still talking about the fact that these people aren't, that we're struggling with the fact that we don't have employees, and yet if I have five THP employees, I'm not putting five employees in the office, first of all. And secondly, they don't even have an education for any office work. So please, let's see from this point of view that this law certainly has its reasons. Let us discuss this in the subcommittees, in the committee, and let us not say that this is merely the use of the social system. It's not like that. I also had these problems, and I can say that they were people who wanted to work, wanted to be at work, because the mother goes down immediately with a salary and it's not pleasant for anyone, and if we want to promote a pro-family policy, then the state must be able to help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u95	Thank you, Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Now two factual points. The first is Mr Jiří Bláha, and a colleague Milan Brázdil will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u96	Hello, colleagues. I'd just follow up on my colleague's words, and I'd make it a little more clear that mothers go down with money when they're pregnant, so it's not based on the truth. I employ 200 people, and I really have the same problems with that, that if I get my night baker pregnant, I have to transfer her to another job. But today's system is designed to really match her salary. So normally, the employee goes down to the company with a salary, but the social services will call the employee. That's how it works, and if anybody has any other data, then fix it with your accountants and remake it, it's wrong. The system is already being treated like this today, that whoever goes to maternity school and goes to work or wants to work, which is really in a small part, most women immediately go to sick leave, or at least in my field it happens that way. So those who want to work, and I'm giving them up, so we create conditions for them, we reschedule them. And maybe they don't make as much money as they normally do, but Social Services will pay them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u97	I thank Mr Jiří Bláh. Before I give the floor to Mr Brázdil on a factual point, I state the apology of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. As of 11 o'clock, Mr David Kasal apologises for medical reasons. Mr Milan Brázdil now. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u98	In conclusion. I would like to respond to many previous speakers. There are few of us, we are dying. Guys, let's make love and multiply, and even at home! [[Resurrection.]] But please don't give birth at home. The act of coming into the world should be safe, and it should be in hospitals, in maternity homes. This is just to conclude from the point of view of the doctor, so that we don't have to come to you as a pre-hospital care, and that we don't have to go any further. Well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u99	I thank Mr Brázdil. This was the last one entered into the debate and I ask if anyone else is reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. And before I ask for the final words, is there interest? Yes. And before I give the floor to Mrs Pekarová Adamová, I will ask the House for peace. There's a lot of noise here, and I'd like us to conclude this negotiation in a dignified environment. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u100	Thank you very much for the floor, and at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate, because I think that it has been rightly conducted in the vast majority of cases, and it has also been very factual. And most importantly, in my opinion, it has shown that we are really interested in family policy and that we are not indifferent to how Czech families are doing. So thank you for that, and thank you for expressing your doubts, for the criticism that has been made here, and for the particular warning of the shortcomings, because I am now aware that, of course, we have something to correct in that law. It's not like we can't keep working on it. I would be very pleased to see that it is in the course of further discussions in the committee that will be particularly focused on some of the things that you have mentioned here. Above all, I would be delighted to focus on the other areas of family policy that we have also mentioned here. Whether it was about the reconciliation of family work life, part-time work, whether it was questions of parental or inability to work at the same job as the same employer, etc., a whole series of things that we see similarly, or we see that there are shortcomings in the system. I would like to conclude by saying that some of my colleagues, especially KSČM, have been mentioned here that there is some sort of division of people into certain kinds. On the contrary, I think that this is about wanting some injustice against a group of those beneficiaries right now, so we want to correct it, and we actually want to make the system just fairer. That's what this is about. So let's support the fairer payment of the mother, support the Czech family, support our mothers and fathers. I would be delighted to have all the further debate we have on these committees, as I think they deserve this proposal. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u101	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. I ask if the rapporteur is interested - she is not interested in the final word. We will therefore consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion, because there was no proposal for a return or rejection in the debate. I'm checking with the rapporteur that I'm right because I haven't been running that point the whole time. [[The rapporteur agrees.]] So it is true, and so we can deal with this proposal on the commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We can decide in vote number 58 on the commandment of the Social Policy Committee as a committee of guarantee. I've started the vote on order number 58 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 58: 167 for 153, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. The rapporteur is reporting. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u102	Thank you. I would suggest a commandment to the Committee on Family and Equality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u103	Okay, so the commandment to the board for family and equal opportunities. That is what we will decide in the 59 order vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 59: 168 for 155, versus 3. This proposal has also been adopted. And now, therefore, the proposal to extend the time limit for discussion, which was applied in the debate after the debate, is 90 days. The plaintiff must give her consent. I assume that he will only agree to 80, which is why, under the Rules of Procedure Act, he will require that this be extended by only 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u104	That's exactly what I was going to say, in this case, I would prefer an extension of only 80 days. I don't think the difference in ten days will play that important role anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u105	Okay. I understand. I didn't mean to say, but I expected such a statement, because even in the final word, you didn't object to the motion, Mrs. Problectors' representative. So we will vote on extending the deadline for discussion of 20 days to a total of 80 days in the second reading. We will decide in the vote number 60, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of extending the deadline for discussion by 20 days. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 60 of 168 present for 159, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I thank the appellants' representative, thank the rapporteur, and I note that the proposal has been directed to the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee, and that the permanent Commission on Equal Opportunities and Family has been ordered, and the deadline for discussion has been extended to 80 days. That concludes item number 19 and I'm handing over the meeting's proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-002-019.u106	Good morning. We will now proceed to discuss the next proposal. This is about
