ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u1	17. Members of Martin Kolovratník, Dan Ťok, Patrik Nacher, Milan Feranc, Klára Dostálová, Roman Onderka, Jaroslav Foldyna, Květa Matušovská, Leo Luzar, Zdeněk Ondráček, Radim Fiala, Helena Langšádlová, Ondřej Polanský, Věra Kovářová, Lukáš Černohorský, Zbyněk Stanjura and Jiří Mihola on the issue of Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure and Electronic Communications Infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 76/ - Second reading Mr Martin Kolovratník shall state the motion submitted for the appellant. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I wish you, colleagues, a good afternoon at this time, not for the electoral committee, but for the representative, or as representatives of the plaintiffs of this bill, this amendment. It is a novel which, in the introductory wording, which we have prepared at the end of January of this year, is not so extensive, but ultimately in the content, the number of amendments at this time is already more extensive, and probably the most extensive in terms of its impact, the impact on transport infrastructure, whether road, rail or water. I will very briefly just recapitulate for you, for those of you who are interested in it, events or developments, as we have prepared the amendment to this moment. In January, in cooperation with colleagues of the Ministry of Transport, we agreed to prepare an amendment to the existing Act 416 in the form of a parliamentary proposal and I was able to obtain the agreement or consent of representatives of all the Members' clubs here in the House. All nine deputies. A working group of Members was formed, i.e. representatives of the nine clubs, plus the Ministry of Transport, which gradually patiently prepared individual amendments. It took us, in fact, a quarter of a year, the preparatory work, but I have to say that we took advantage of that quarter very, very intensively, and perhaps I can also say professionally, but mainly factually, without emotion. And it's not about one MP, it's about me, it's about Martin Kolovratník, it's really about all of us who are in that working group. I want to thank my colleagues very much for the confidence they have given me, because in such a complex political situation as it is in these weeks, months, to hold the agreement of all nine clubs, the entire Chamber of Deputies, it is unique and unique. I mean, I really appreciate it. A great thank-you will certainly belong to the rapporteur, who will definitely be coming after me soon, because together, if you can imagine it as if to take 17 amendments and discuss them with nine clubs, if you multiply it, it is certainly not easy. To cut short the opening word. We discussed the proposal on the Guarantee Economic Committee, and thanks to the rare agreement of all the petitioners, we finally narrowed down the amendments, the individual improvements, by mutual agreement into one comprehensive material which was discussed by the Economic Committee and was adopted as a whole in the Economic Committee. Then... That means, in the procedure, then for the third reading and the next act, it will appear logically as a font. And so it's going to be points A1 through A17. Subsequently, the material was also discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. I would also like to thank my colleagues very much, because they did not address the relevant aspect of transport, which buildings, which list, but mainly dealt with the legal and constitutional aspects, whether the law, our proposals in illustration or, above all, the preliminary holding or interim decision will be comfortable with the Constitution, with the Czech legal system. If he stands up to a possible constitutional test at the Constitutional Court. And so far, it seems hopeful, because colleagues have given their consent. And those who are law professionals and lawyers give a positive opinion. In particular, there is a great thank you to the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Marek Benda. And what I should mention, and I must mention, is one very important thing. She resonated today in the House's morning debate on the amendment to the Building Act. There I confess, I really didn't know that one of our changelings was actually used as an argument in the amendment to the building bill. [[with laughter]] So the way I used the phrase "like blind to violins," it really worked. This concerns Amendment No 4, which was adopted by the Economic Committee, but was adopted despite the dissenting position of the various departments, as I said this morning. As translators, we considered him relatively insignificant. One just of many, but certainly not fatal or essential. It is an amendment that says that the construction law in Section 96b does not require the position of the coordination of land planning for line constructions, but only after a subsequent discussion with the Minister did we find that from the point of view of the MMR that this could be a potentially large complication if we were to place such large-scale line constructions in the territory without the coordination. We agreed on a procedure that I will now explain, which I will also beg for on the Economic Committee and then in 14 days' time if we make it to the third reading. The procedure would be to ask that the amendment be brought under the letter. A4 The House did not accept and to give a negative opinion on it. And I have corrected it, and we have replaced it by a new amendment, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate, which I have prepared here in cooperation with the MMR and is now being submitted to this press. I will then say that number in a detailed debate. Bottom line, don't hold me up, I'll be more prepared for any questions you may have. At the moment, therefore, 17 proposals are submitted for the Economic Committee, one of which will be modified. And again, I want to underline that, in agreement with the petitioners, I have prepared two minor improvements in addition to the amendment of the Ministry for Regional Development. The first concerns the amendment to Marek Benda's proposal, and Marek Benda agrees with the amendment. We say, we introduce... I believe he agrees. [[With laughter.]] We're gonna... Marek Benda very well and well introduces the so-called. fiction of consent, which is good. It's the right move. Finally, we agreed with the constitutional lawyers after consultation that we will take the EIA opinions out of the fiction, the assessment of the environmental impact of buildings, because it is a very sensitive issue in relation to the EU, so we do not want to put the fiction there yet. And the last one for me is really a technique in this so many discussed list of buildings, where, I say, it was a technical matter when consulting the SŽDC infrastructure manager, where they defined the railway node of the villages of Vratimov, but correctly the definition should have been line up to Frýdek Místek. It's about 20 kilometers away, where one track will be electrified. So it's a really, really small thing. And that's all for the introduction at the moment. I'll be more prepared for your questions and arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Kolovratník. I remind you that we ordered the proposal at first reading as a guarantee committee to the Economic Committee and that the press was ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee. The committee resolution was delivered to us as House prints 76/2 to 7. And now I ask the rapporteur of Mr Ivan Adamec's economic committee to inform us of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief. The Economic Committee discussed the amendment proposal and discussed it on 24 April this year. He adopted, as has already been said, 17 amendments. It's printing 76/6. Further amendments were adopted by the Constitutional Committee, which is press 76/7, and adopted on 9 May 2018. For the fact that it was originally a simple amendment, which was to be dealt with in accordance with § 90, we got quite mixed up. Indeed, the 17 amendments that have been made here in this room in the presence of the professional public, the representatives of the Ministry, show that the problem is much wider than the original idea, but also the warning to Amendment 4, I would say, is fine and it is necessary to deal with this de facto by voting this point over the new proposal, as the petitioner here said, or the representative of the petitioners. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, I would be careful to speak here for my colleague Mart Benda, as I know him, because I think, of course, as far as the EIA that are excluded from this preliminary agreement is concerned, so I think the opinion is a little different, but I don't want to speak for him either. So we have seventeen amendments from the Economic Committee ahead of us. One thing we know is that we're going to modify it. We have here an amendment from the Committee on Constitutional Law, which is also modified. So at this point, I can say that it really depends on you, colleagues, how you stand up to the bill at second reading, how many more amendments are going to be. Let me give you my personal opinion. I would say that there was rarely a consensus on those amendments that were on the Economic Committee, except for the last part that we assumed would really only be constructions that would be taken into account in the near future in order to test this law in practice. After experience from surrounding countries, we know that all these similar laws have been tested by constitutionality in those countries where parliaments have been agreed, but the majority opinion has been different. That table is very wide. Perhaps someone will find it quite interesting that it concerns the fence of the airport, which really looks very particular due to the importance of this law, which really seriously interferes with the property rights of the owners of the land, however, the consensus was that most of the table passed in this form. I think that if these amendments are going to apply to the table today, my personal opinion is that further proposals should not be approved, but, of course, it is a matter of the House's plenary. At this point, I would conclude with the fact that if it goes through a good second reading today, there's nothing stopping us from doing the third reading in a variable week, I assume that the House's leadership will do so, and agree to the final version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u5	Thank you. As I have already said, the press has also been dealt with by the Constitutional Committee, and I am now asking the rapporteur of the Committee of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the Constitutional Legal Committee dealt with the Act on 9 May 2018 with the adoption of the following resolution. He advised the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal, adopting an amendment to it, that is, the proposal already mentioned by my colleague Benda, which is giving the deadline to the authorities giving a binding opinion, and further recommended that paragraph 4 be deleted. That is precisely the point that Mr. Kolovratník mentioned in relation to the construction law, which we discussed in the morning. And what I consider to be very important here is that the Constitutional Committee did not deal with this annex at all 19, we did not consider it relevant in terms of assessing the constitutionality of the law and these contexts to deal with the annex itself. So the Constitutional Committee recommends the text section and simply didn't deal with the attachment. That's probably all that matters on the committee. I also draw attention from this discussion to the issue of delivery, which we have been working very closely on there. I will make an amendment on this matter, which would release the change in delivery compared to the existing regulations, the question was discussed very closely, but in the end the committee did not adopt any resolution on the matter. And one final point. That law will undoubtedly end up in the Constitutional Court, because, as my previous speaker from the Economic Committee mentioned, the interference with property rights is very important to appeal to you to be as reasonable as possible in the scope of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Jan Zahradník, who will now have the floor, is entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed very carefully the opening words of the representatives of the group of petitioners, Mr Kolovratník, as well as the reports of the two rapporteurs of the relevant committees. I'm aware of how sensitive this is. I have noted some warning from my colleague Ferjenčík about what this law can do, what convention and what constitutional lawsuits. The constructions of transport infrastructure are blocked relatively effectively by various groups of opponents of these buildings, whether they are opponents, who have their origins among the owners of the land that these buildings are supposed to be going through, or by people who resent the construction from some other point of view, not least by groups of environmental activists who effectively use relatively very benevolent environmental legislation, especially the EIA Act, in order to make their proposals available and to block a whole range of buildings fairly effectively. That is why the Act on Acceleration of Transport Infrastructure Construction is very important to us and I think it deserves support. I have tabled my amendment and, together with my co-workers, worked on the basis that I actually - I think it was 15 May this year in the media, in a diary - recorded a very significant signal from the government, which was perhaps coming from some government exit meeting, when the government is driving around the regions and there is getting to know the problems that are bothering the regions, and then promises to correct these problems on the spot itself, if possible immediately, and there has also been a great problem for a whole number of cities, municipalities, settlements are building bypasses. It just doesn't work, there are problems that have been there for many years and it is not possible to simply obtain these permits so that the citizens of those cities, municipalities, settlements are spared excessive transport burdens. [[15.30 hours]] That is why I have prepared an amendment concerning the annex to the law, namely Amendment 5, which defines the various future buildings that should be discussed and permitted under the law. I suggested that buildings which actually create a kind of tangential connection between eight regional cities in Bohemia, in fact a circuit that would complement the radial system of motorways, which, of course, are already partly built, are partially missing, and should be the subject of the law, are listed in that annex. It is a circuit that connects the towns of Liberec, Ústí nad Labem, Karlovy Vary, Plzeň, České Budějovice, Jihlava. Pardubice and Hradec Králové already have their connections. And they are mostly roads that are part of the road type E routes, or in category E, which is the category of roads under the European Agreement AGR, respectively. the EAK agreement, actually belonging before the creation of the Union under the competence of the United Nations. These are roads 1/13 on the route, 1/20, 1/34 and 1/37. On these roads, and I am stressing here, there are arounds of 43 cities, municipalities and settlements, which are at different levels already quite advanced. 43 cities and settlements could therefore be gradually solved in terms of building their bypasses. And the second amendment point, that concerns the railroad. The railway Veselí nad Lužnicí - České Velenice was traditionally part of the fourth railway corridor. It's the last track that's not electrified there. The Czech Republic has been promising the Republic of Austria a modernization of this line for almost 30 years. That is why I would also like to propose this line to this amendment. So I think that I have first introduced you to the proposal, it is part of the House document, which I will then sign up to in a detailed debate. And if you're interested, I'm ready to show you on the map what sections are specifically involved. Therefore, in the general debate, I thank you for your attention, and as you can see, I have already signed up for the debate in detail where I will sign up for the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u9	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In the general debate, Mr Ferjenčík will speak further. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would like to present my two amendments to this press, and they are both very brief. The first repeals point 1 of that comprehensive draft economic committee which regulates service. As I mentioned in my report, in my view, this general regulation protects citizens' rights better than the way the economic committee took it. I think it's pointless to create a special law here. The second amendment concerns the list of these buildings. I suggest we cross out the sailing level of Přelouč because I think the construction has no economic justification, it's supposed to cost several billion crowns. Do you know the situation? I'm straight from Pardubice County, there was a big theme, I went to grammar school in Přelouč. And it was a big deal ten years ago. They don't take the Labi coal to the Chvaletice plant today. Not even to the Chvaletice plant, where one would expect it to be actually the ideal situation to carry the coal. There are mines on the Elbe in the Ústí Region. We've got a power plant. One would expect that if such cargo, which can be carried in large quantities, does not pay to drive on the river, we will not spend billions of crowns to navigate the Elbe to Pardubice. I just don't think it has an economic ratio. For this reason, I am opposed to deploying such powerful tools of the kind of expropriation of people in order to push this construction forward. So I suggest we cross out this construction. And I think it would be far more appropriate to invest the money in the development of the railway line Prague - Olomouc, especially a section from Pardubice towards Olomouc. There is a problem section where if tunnels were built or capacity increased, it would be very helpful on this backbone corridor. And to debug those three billion in the Elbe, I find it pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u11	Mr Petrtýl will respond with a factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to oppose Mr Ferjenčík through you, because it is still true that water transport is the cheapest transport. We have actually built communications, these are highways that are empty, I mean the water. It's a natural way. And really not taking advantage of that would be a great sin. Take how many our ancestors have spent over a hundred years, how many billions, and how much effort they put in the exhibitions of different sailing stages or different facilities on that river. I think not taking advantage of that would be a big mistake, because the roads are getting more crowded. I can tell you that even in the Central Bohemia Region and in Prague trains will not reach the tracks because there is no room. So the more we lighten the other infrastructure, I'm convinced that shipping is one way to help it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u13	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Ferjenčík is registered, followed by Mr Kolovratník in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u14	I will only respond very briefly, through Mr President, to the previous speaker. If there is simply no railway capacity, it is necessary to build a new railway. The moment the coal doesn't take to the Chvaletice plant, which is fully navigable there, what in God's name will be used for the section that leads to Pardubice? In my opinion, we're just going to debug billions, and it's not really going to be used. Putting it on the railroad seems far more effective to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u15	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová has made a point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on what my colleague Ferjenčík said here. From the environmental point of view and from the economic efficiency point of view, it is really much more advantageous to invest, for example, in high-speed rail, in railway corridors that are rather underfunded in the Czech Republic, and it is necessary to move in this direction quickly. Water construction, I think, is a matter of the past, not of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u17	Thank you. Mr kolovratník entered into the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u18	At the risk of triggering further reactions and factual remarks, I have to respond to this. With all due respect, Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President, this is exactly what I did not want, what I asked your representative, your colleague Ondřej Polanský, a very kind and close colleague in the Transport Sub-Committee. This is exactly what I didn't want us to grow up here. For that we had three months, that quarter of a year, to have these debates, and with all due respect, I don't know how big a transport expert you are to discuss this and reach a compromise. [[15.40 hours]] I know it will never be ideal for everyone, but try to imagine the spectrum width here in the House, logically, and I don't mean that without any connotations, from the left side of the spectrum, where colleagues would be willing to dramatically expand the list in terms of state power, state investors power, to colleagues on the right, who were very skeptical and very conservative in order to expand these buildings. And this is what we've been doing for the last three months in both the group of petitioners and the Economic Committee and, after all, on the subcommittee for transport. So I have to report here both towards you and towards other colleagues, unfortunately also to Mr Zahradník, whom I otherwise appreciate very much, that I will be opposed to the adoption of these amendments at the Economic Committee and at the third reading, because the agreement, which is also very valuable in the direction of the Senate, to the public and possibly to the Constitutional Court, was actually born a quarter of a year, three months, and I consider it very, very balanced. And I don't want to let it happen that all of a sudden with different partial opinions, and please, now don't take this the wrong way, and it's not meant to be bad, so suddenly it starts to fall apart and something will either be added or taken. First of all, that's in the general plane. But I have to be specific, because it affects me actually, I am a Member of Pardubice. You probably don't know that the Pardubice region, both the city and the county, has a big ambitious project called the Pardubice multimodal hub. It is a project that we have presented to the Economic Committee. Again, your colleagues saw the project, met it. You are not a member of the Economic Committee. It is a project, a vision that is the only one in the Czech Republic, the only place in the Czech Republic that connects all four modes of transport. Water transport using a container transfer point, cargo at the airport, which is less than a kilometer away from the Elbe, the railway corridor that is there, and of course also road transport. It's the only place that can connect four modes of transport. So it's about the reasoning of the purpose or the nonsense of the waterway. And it is for the Přelouč level that it has to be said historically that it is an event that is discussed, prepared, perhaps even competitive, prepared, but unfortunately has problems in the sense of ecology. But again, colleagues from ŘVC, this is an illustration, they prepared me a proposal that was much wider. They had Bata's canal, they had their sailing stages on the Vltava River, and I saw this again as the compromise that we narrowed down the list and left at least the two sailing stages. So I'm really asking that we keep the ratio, the sensibleness, in that list, and not interfere with it. And a colleague named Balcarová. High-speed lines, well, that touches me completely emotionally, because we adopted a resolution here a year ago, the government started working on it, we have strategic material. It started, the first two feasibility studies are running, the Prague-Dresden arm is being designed, the Prague-Brno arm is being designed. Preparatory work is underway. At SŽDC, I do this every day, they have a team of ten experts, a special project team on high-speed lines, funds are prepared for this in the SFDI, in the budget of the SFDI, here I am very sure in the campfires. So the argument "better to high-speed lines than to water" isn't right here because it's not excluded. If, theoretically, in two years' time, we could start to realize the sailing stage at the Labi in Přelouč, that doesn't mean there won't be money for the high-speed lines. In this sense, this really has nothing to do with it, because feasibility studies will take about two years and the process will run. They are really preparing themselves in all seriousness and in the full speed that is at least possible at the moment. I can guarantee this not only from the position of the Economic Committee but also from the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. And the last sentence, let me give you some room for that list. We on the Economic Committee, when we prepared it and listened to the proposals from the individual investors - and believe me, they may have been ten times bigger, they really wanted everything - so we made two agreements with the Members. The first agreement was that we wanted those investors to put in events that would have property-related preparation, i.e. a territorial decision, a permit and then a property-related preparation within two years. In short, the provisions of the list, the law, will be able to be used within two years. That was an inexhaustible condition for us to put constructions on that list. And the second agreement was in the direction of the MIT, to the Ministry of Industry, which wanted to put there, and this concerns mainly the Pirates Club, the high voltage system, energy structures, gas pipelines. And that's where we came in, and that's where I stand, and I'm gonna insist, and I'm gonna back it up, and I'm not gonna back down that deal right now, it's just a list for traffic, it's not for any other mode or other types of buildings. And even on this one, I think he might be able to stand the motion, possibly even at the Constitutional Court. So much for the debate, how it all came about. And once again, I really, really, really beg that we don't go into any further changes, either enlargement or narrowing down. Without emotion, I'm prepared to explain it professionally, but I'm not going to back down and I wouldn't want to back off that list the way it's built at the moment. The last explanation I owe, it is often mistaken by people, the list is, pretty please, bound only with one of the 17 amendments, and that is with the preliminary holding, virtually. an interim decision. All the other 16 apply to all constructions according to the law. It is also important to explain this, because journalists are often mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u19	Thank you. The speaker's order is now as follows. Mr Ferjenčík, Stanjura, Výborný and Juříček are registered with factual remarks. And in the general debate, the rapporteur Adamec and President Stanjura are entered, so President Stanjura will speak with priority rights. It is now Mr Ferjenčík's point in fact. It will be followed by a factual remark from Mr Excellent. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u20	Thank you for the floor, and I would like to conclude this debate for myself. However, the fact that there is a list of buildings on the Economic Committee cannot really oblige the rest of the Chamber of Deputies to accept constructions that they do not agree with. And I would also like you to be correct and protest against the expansion of the list. A proposal like this has already fallen and hasn't met any response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u21	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Výborný will now speak, Mr Juříček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As a Member of the Pardubice Region, I would like to support here what my colleague Kolovratník said. It may seem like it doesn't have a ratio, a sailing channel on the Labi near Přelouča, but let's be a little generous here and look into the future. That transport terminal that's already in the study phase today, that's 20, 30 years in advance. If we don't do the navigational stage, of course, the added value that's currently in contact with air transport, rail transport, water transport won't be there. So I'd really like it to stay out of the list. This is a chance to complete a project that, by the way, has been being prepared here for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u23	Thank you. Mr Juříček and his factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I basically wanted to say something like a colleague here who was Výborný, because I was there almost from the beginning with Martin Kolovratník. I made 17 amendments myself, and then I withdrew them, because Martin Kolovratník's were better. We discussed it across the board. Let us be glad that after 25 or 28 years we have reached such consensus. Well, for God's sake, let's not do this again! The whole Republic is waiting for this, and we really need to build it. It's a litmus paper of the future. And if there's any cooperation in the House like it was on insurance, or as it's now at 41, let's just be glad that we've made it into this shape. And I really thank everyone for Martin Kolovratník, who has repeated it many times. And let's be glad we're at least in this phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u25	Thank you. The factual remarks made by Mr Onderka, Mrs Matušovská, Mr Kolovratník, will follow in this order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u26	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I must say that what is falling here and may still fall in the future when we discuss the amendment on speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure is exactly what we were expecting...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u27	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I'll invite the others to keep their voices down. I ask you once again to keep it quiet and we all heard what the speaker has to say. Please, you have the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u28	From the beginning, when we discussed this matter, we knew that they would fall. I must defend my colleague Kolovratník that we have never said at these negotiations that amendments could not fall. And what we're counting on is that there will be proposals that will try to expand the list or reduce it. [[15.50 hours]] Colleague Kolovratník said one thing here, and I stand by it, but we thought this was the best we could do across the Chamber of Deputies. And that is why social democracy will not make amendments in the scopes that have been here. And we could discuss a lot of transport constructions here that I personally don't see on that list. The priority is that we will not be able to see the Line Act for this parliamentary term. The preparation, which will be, will be long and maybe the last, fourth year here we will have some proposal that will pass through the commemorative management of individual ministries, but this is a certain patch and a certain possibility that may enable us to accelerate the construction of line construction by some 20 to 30 percent. The time horizon will be different, but we have to do something about it. In conclusion, just one little thing about these buildings. In addition to the Constitutional Court, where the complaint will certainly appear to us, I think we have chosen a solution that can now stand up to the Constitutional Court. And I am very pleased that the compromise across the political parties in the Chamber of Deputies was. On the other hand, we need to say -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u29	Mr. Ambassador, I've added time, but it's time to stop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u30	Last sentence. Thank you. It must be said that we also agreed to open this list in the Chamber of Deputies about once every two years, i.e. so that we can just make it possible for us to change it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u31	Just to clarify - I added time to the honourable Member because I was making peace in the Chamber of Deputies and the stopwatch ran for two minutes. Mrs Matušovská, Mr Kolovratník, is now making a point of fact. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I can't put up with what my predecessor or my fellow Member from the parliamentary region has said here, Mr Ferjenčík, through you. Since he was elected to the Pardubice Region, he should look at it as an MP of the Pardubice Region, and instead he will say that the Přelouč sailing level does not really make sense. I can say that this is a major project that we are promoting, or the Pardubice Region has been promoting for a long time. And as my colleague Kolovratník mentioned here, we have a vision of a multimodal node that is actually supposed to connect the railroad, the water, the road, we have it very sophisticated. Too bad you weren't at the presentation because your colleagues were really there, and I think they really liked it. That's one thing. And two. Of course, there was a consensus on all these things across the political spectrum, as my previous speakers have said. We've been discussing this for a long time, it's not like we wrote it down. It's actually also in the concept of transport for a long time, in those visions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u33	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u34	Then I'll use the time very quickly. For Mikuláš Ferjenčík, it probably didn't sound out loud - I was, I am, and I will be against spreading the list. Make sure it's on the log. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u35	Thank you. Now, in the general debate, President Stanjura, after whom Mr Adamec, will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u36	I waited patiently because two minutes wouldn't be enough. I'll start with what our representative of the group of petitioners Martin Kolovratník has been talking about repeatedly. We made a political agreement. And you can count on us to make a political agreement that we will, too, not to sign a motion and then vote to reject it. At the same time, I mean, we're not happy about how the list turned out. In our opinion, it's too wide. I have already agreed with my colleagues from the Economic Committee that the Economic Committee should have adopted a resolution in order to request once a year a report from the Ministry of Transport, as its investor organisations have dealt with this bill. I'm afraid there are too many hopes associated with the adoption of this law. We'll pass the law in the House, the Senate, or we'll get it back from the Senate, but I think in two, three months at the latest, it'll be in the Collection of Laws, and almost nothing will change in that final phase if we talk about expropriation. And I have repeatedly talked about it in the first reading, how sensitive for us is the question of expropriation, virtually. construction on land which is not state. At the same time, I said it was in the public interest to be able to soften this principle. And we would, of course, be for a much narrower list. I'm not gonna suggest it because we made a deal. In my opinion, there are completely unnecessary drills. Fiction. We will not use this either this year or next year, nor in this term of office of the Chamber of Deputies, will the interim decision be applied to the preparation of high-speed lines. I'm absolutely sure of it. We are very skeptical of all conventional railway lines and to use the Institute for interim decisions. We're really very skeptical. That's why we're going to want a report once a year where it was used. We're very skeptical that there are first-class roads on that list. I say, once again, we honor the agreement, because we have many, and there are five chosen. And they're justifiably asking in our county why our eleven, forty-six, fifty-six isn't there, and I could go on like this. I think any of you in your constituency would find a road that's not there. But again, we honor the agreement. I want to stand up for Mr Ferjenčík. I am almost sure that this law, the interim decision, will not be used for this election period. I remember the state of preparation of the event in 2013. If you think she's moved significantly over the past five years, she hasn't moved. And all Members of the Pardubice Region know very well who is in the hands of deciding on building permits. And it's not Prague. They are not central public authorities. So we can tell each other the whole truth. What fills us with hope and why we will actually honor this agreement, although the list of buildings is much wider than you imagine, there is a completely different thing that I think can actually significantly help shorten the preparation of the buildings. And that is the point that contains the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Yes, the transport experts threw themselves at the buildings and had a difficult political debate. But that approval fiction, it's more important. And that's why we're going to vote in favour of the law, and that's why we agreed to the agreement. Because today it is quite common that the government body concerned, i.e. the State corresponds to the investor of ŘSD or SŽDC, so the State, the length of 9, 12, 15 months. And neither environmental activists nor construction opponents delay it, delaying the state from coordinating its organisational components and the government authorities concerned. And in this proposal, which we have proposed, and in agreement with our colleagues, it is said that the government body concerned has 60 days. That's enough time. And if within 60 days it does not express itself, even negatively, it is considered that the investor has obtained consent. This can really reduce the time from the idea to the beginning of the realization in the whole run, in all those stages of construction preparation. This, in our opinion, is the key part of this proposal, not the annex No. 1. And I'm looking forward to the debate in about 24 months, when we're going to say how many times the interim decision has been made or not. We're very skeptical. I've also told the directors of state investor organizations to put their heads on the block that they're going to use the institute on each of the buildings on that list within two years. And I'm curious about the result. We can be optimistic today, or skeptics, time will judge us. If I had yet to respond to the performance of some of my colleagues. And now I don't mean it ironically or funnyly - since there's such a list of buildings, why isn't there a Brno subway? I personally consider the solution to the question of the railway station in Brno to be really important. Many laugh about it. I really consider it important for years. However, they call it different, but it's basically a subway and it's not there by chance. Metro D - it was a request of all our fellow Members of Prague that it had to be there, it is there. [[16.00 hours]] So if we wanted to be fair on that list, it would be a much wider list. And my favorite statement is that we thought there'd be priorities in that list. Count the priorities! And there are still the buildings as a whole, which means that it still falls apart into many concrete actions, and no one can seriously claim that when I have hundreds of priorities, I have set some priorities. My colleagues know that if it were up to me, I don't speak for my club now, I have two buildings there: D35 - the second motorway connection between Moravian and Czech regions - and the road circuit around Prague, because I think they are the two most important transport structures that affect most of the Czech people. Reality is different. We'll honor the deal. Yes, my colleague Jan zahradník tabled one amendment, which brings, I would say, a solution in the railroad loop. You are free to decide how you will vote on this amendment. We will not make our consent to the bill as a whole subject to the vote on this particular amendment. That's what I wanted to hear. It is once again a regional view, which is legitimate, but we have 14 regions. And let's try to ease the optimism that this will accelerate considerably after the law is passed. It won't be like that. And with those water structures, and now I don't want to argue whether it's used or not, I think we're living in the 21st century, and personally almost all the water transport projects remind me of the 19th century, when there was a completely different situation in the world, a completely different situation in transport, large warehouses, etc. We could talk about this for a very long time. If it were up to me, I'd leave it to history, to the experts' debate, what would it look like if it were built then, who would it help and who wouldn't, but today or yesterday I saw the headline of the Danube-Odra-Labe 610 billion. And he won't let me, at least to my colleagues who are relatively new here, be the Minister of Transport for about three days when the Social Democrat Members have been intersecting me very passionately, how I will stand up to the construction of this channel with the fact that this project has been going on for 110 years. The Ministry of Transport officials have eagerly brought me about four centimeters of material. I didn't use them, and I told them a sentence that still applies today. It's been about 112 years since: If a project is planning 112 years, what else do you want to hear about the quality and reality of the project? That's all. We don't have to go into details at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u37	Thank you, Mr President. With a factual remark, Mr Roman Onderka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, through the President, an answer for Mr Stanjura, why is not the so-called list? Brno metro, as he likes to say, otherwise it is called a north-south diameter for connecting the new railway station and the part of Brno. It's de facto rail transport, and I understand why he defined it that way. Why isn't he there? Because he doesn't have the prep. And that was the demand we made when we did this list together, and I'm not in the habit of doing it, and I don't want to lie to my colleagues in the Economic Committee just to show up and collect some political points, and in two years, you'd be intersecting me what I am for, I'm gonna say it to a decent, unfair person. So I'm just explaining it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u39	Thank you. Mr Foldyna has taken back his point of fact with the fact that he will speak in a proper debate. But before that, Mr Adamec was reported in the debate. I hope I've got my bearings right in the notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u40	Yes, it is. Mr President, fellow Members, I do not want to step up the debate here, but I would like to say that, of course, one thing is the club agreement, that is true, the gentlemen's agreement of clubs, but the other is the right of every Member. And I think that any Member can speak, say his or her opinion, and, if necessary, make an amendment. So we're just here to talk about it. Of course, one thing is the club agreement, and the other is the attitude of each Member. When I was listening to this, I'm afraid I have to say that it really turns out that everyone's from somewhere. It's just that the regional view here is clear, and unfortunately I have to say that in that table the regional view has significantly exceeded the state's view. Of course, what is a priority of the state may not be in line with regional priorities. And I was a little naive at the beginning, and I thought that's how most Members would see it, but it's just the regionality that's clear, we're all from somewhere where those citizens are voting for us. They all want to include priority buildings from their region. I understand, I'm not criticizing, I'm just stating. It's a little disappointing for me, of course, but that's all I can do about it. But I'd like to see the idea of Mr Stanjura, the approval fiction, not to set off here. I think that's really the most important thing there is. Maybe it's more important than your own interim decision. And I'll tell you why. We're actually pretending that whoever's not in the chart isn't even there. But it's different. In fact, this bill only concerns the last phase of construction preparation, until the very last, that is, the purchase of land. I listened well to my fellow Zahradník, and I have to say that what he said, when various environmental activists - I call them sometimes otherwise, but I will not repeat it here, I would be on TV again on the evening air - just annoying, but annoying at a completely different stage. They annoy at that stage of territorial proceedings and there are the first complications, because the state without a valid territorial decision cannot buy out land. This means territorial proceedings, zoning decisions and building permits, these are other parts, other stages that are just ahead of this final, final decision on land purchases, and unfortunately we do not have that, and I don't think we will have it anytime soon. This should be addressed by the Lining Construction Act and there, of course, the problem is significantly higher. This means the fiction of consent, but it's already interfering, or it will interfere if the House approves it, virtually. Parliament, to be more precise, because the real state is sometimes very lax about the interests of the state, some of those ministries, officials, etc., and it really happens before it runs out, so some of those consents don't apply anymore. They're gonna fail, and they're gonna have to go round and round again. We call it stupid in the backyard. Over and over again. That means I see it as more necessary here. And once again, the list that we have in the annex, I think this check once every two years will be very interesting that it will actually point out that the purchase of land, virtually. building on foreign lands based on an interim decision is not exactly the priority that bothers us most. I think we're really worried about getting ready for our own buyout. But it is certainly a good signal from Parliament that we want to do something about this problem, but on the other hand, we must be really careful, because we are interfering with the rights of owners. And I'm definitely from the political party that honors the right of owners as the highest law. It's their property, and we need to be very, very cautious about it. So I have to say, let's not get illusions that what's on that list, that it's gonna be speeding up like this, that it's gonna be right now, and that those who aren't in the list, it's just like they're not. It's not like that. And, of course, I think it's up to each of us to stand up to the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Birke. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would perhaps like to add - not to fix it, but to supplement it with you through Mr Adamec. These environmental activists don't intervene at that stage before the territorial decision, they interfere after the territorial decision, before the building permit, after the building permit, and even before the construction start. And we both know very well, and I think that, also my colleague, Minister Dostálová, through Mr President, D11 is a beautiful sign of this, when before the start of construction, the Children of Earth threw pitchforks into the land. So I have to say that this is, in my opinion, a national sport, and this Czech Parliament should deal with this thing because, forgive me, but from here on out! That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a proper application for discussion, Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, my colleague, I wanted to make a comment because I heard negative speeches in relation to shipping or water transport. Look, I, as Chairman of the Transport Sub-Committee and Vice-President of the Economic Committee, was in the German Bundestag during the last parliamentary term. I dealt with the transport committee in Germany, and I confess I had to be ashamed. I had to be ashamed of how in our country and at what speed certain construction agreements were progressing with us. One of them, for example, was the construction of the D8 when the Němec completed their section on our state border and we waited slowly several decades before we completed the section between Lovosice and Řehlovice, which was hindered by environmental initiatives, when the SAO and ČVUT calculated that every year the failure of the D8 motorway, 13-14 km, cost citizens of the Czech Republic 650 million. Crowns. We spent 650 million crowns each year unnecessarily by not being completed because of the fact that some of the tasks were occupied there. I understand that the government has not worked well enough in some cases, but the obstructions that were due to some initiatives were therefore very expensive and we have redeemed them hard. And to water transport, I mean. Ancestors who sat in these benches and in the Czech Parliament during the time of our state built water transport from Přelouč in Vltava, the Labi and we invested more than 160 billion crowns in it. And as a result of the fact that we do not navigate the Elbe lower stream from Střekov to the state border, let me just explain to you that the slope of the Elbe river from Pardubice to Střekov is 4 permile, only 4 permile, and the morphology of the bottom, that means the bottom is formed by mud, there is a sewerised track, that is, there are those lock chambers, from Střekov to the state border it is 20 permile and morphology of the bottom that there are rocks. We are forced to build the dam so that we can use the x billion crowns we invested in the construction of water transport. And why should we do that? Ladies and gentlemen, there are four segments of our industry that need this significantly and significantly. It is agriculture that imports thousands of tons of compound feed, soya scrap, thousands of tons of soya scrap, and farmers export their products, that is, barley, malt, etc. If farmers are disadvantaged on the market that each tonne by rail or by road is about the euro, two or two euros is balanced by the price, it is a very great disadvantage to compare with those competitors abroad. It also behaves after agriculture in the chemical industry, when thousands of tons of apatites and ammonia are imported into the Czech Republic to process them and export them out as agricultural fertilisers, so those companies have to significantly reduce people's wages in order to reach production prices and be competitive with our western competing products. It's agriculture, the chemical industry. Then it's a metallurgical industry that imports thousands of tons of iron ores and exports its products. After these three industries come investment units. A large port is built in the city or in the port of Mělník, which is able to load huge investment units wherever they are from, and transport them to all of Western Europe. In the event that the water transport is not, and to this day it is not, because no forwarding, which to the contractual partner, such as Třinecký železárny, will call to Děčín or Ústí nad Labem, will be able to negotiate to take him between May and September 100,000 tons. We don't know if there's water or not. Then they are forced to proceed to larger tariffs either railroads or even more truck tariffs. One eleven-year-old ship, which has a 600-horse engine, takes 1 100 tons, employs two people, which means costs and environmental pollution is completely minimal, but we are unable to use it because there is simply no water between the state border and the Střekov Chamber. And we need to keep the water there. I thank those who processed the bill for remembering it. I would like to say, if we don't do this, then the German railways, which carry out all transports by rail to the west of our border, say: This is excellent, we like it. But we are not sitting here behind the German railways, we are sitting here for Czech citizens, for Czech industry, and therefore I am glad and believe that there is some agreement here that the economic committee has discussed this material and that this will pass at the end of the plenary in the House, because water transport is one of the important elements of what we call transport as such. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I didn't register any bill to the guarantee committee from my predecessors, so we have nothing to vote on. I am opening a detailed debate and reminding all interested parties that the amendments tabled must always be justified. In a detailed debate, Mr Jan Zahradník, the first Member to whom I hereby give the floor, came forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would just like to remind you that my proposal concerns the tangential interconnection of the regional towns of Liberec, Ústí nad Labem, Karlovy Vary, Plzeň, České Budějovice, Jihlava. It contains 43 bypasses of cities and municipalities. I have inserted it into the House system as House document 860 and I hereby submit to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u47	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will be next, Mr Grospič will be ready. Next up, Mr Kolovratník is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would like to apply to the two amendments that I have read into the system, namely to the proposals number 876 and number 878. Just a brief explanation. The debate here has done a lot in quotes to those who are ruining our buildings. I would say that, unfortunately, the biggest problem of construction in our country is the failure of state institutions, which unfortunately often do not manage to do their job well enough. We can't blame the people who attacked it in court, we can't blame the people who processed the evidence. If someone just makes an illegal decision, it's the fault of the person who broke the law, not the person who attacked it. That's one point to make. In fact, my amendment on delivery is very closely related to this. I find it very unfortunate to deliver such serious items through a signpost. I know there's some procedural insurance that's gonna happen for the first time, but simply delivery through the post is a very radical institute in relation to the control and protection of landowners, and that's why I think we should cut it off from the economic committee's amendment. We've already talked about the sailing stage of Přelouč. It's probably the only point. Yes, I'm from Pardubice Region, I grew up in Přelouč, and that's why I think that criticism has a much greater relevance from me, because I really don't care about seeing something here that doesn't concern me. I think it's economical nonsense here where the money goes unbearable by coincidence in my region, but I still think the moment it's nonsense, it shouldn't be done even when it's paid by the state, in quotation marks, to my county. Just when the rivers aren't used on the navigable sections, I find it pointless to expand the navigable sections. [[16.20 hours]] After all, as my colleague Foldyna rightly said, a citizen is simply not water. And our ancestors also built a horse-coach railroad, and it's not an argument for us to build it. So much for my amendments. I'd be happy if you'd support them. Thank you all for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u49	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to be involved in this discussion at all, it's not a law that I've been involved in, but I have to respond by your means to Mikuláš Ferjenčík. To say that when someone sues someone, it's not the defendant's fault at all. There are a number of lawsuits, and many of them are unfounded, and here we are talking about obstructive lawsuits. Many of these lawsuits are obstructive. Please, let's not think that if someone is in court, that they have broken the law. It's not like that, it's not true. Please, let's not use that argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u51	Thank you. Another one for a detailed debate, Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, allow me to apply to my amendment under number 827, which I have read into the system. It concerns the House press in question 76. It extends its attachment, where it would add a point to the point of the Railways, the conventional track, to the end of the railway line Prague - Lysá nad Labem - Milovice - Mladá Boleslav. It's called. The alljanese liaison, in a matter I've been here many times and intersecting. This matter is now at the stage of the processed feasibility study, its assessment and it would be very good if the implementation of a relatively very busy connection both for personal and especially for freight transport from Prague to Mlada Boleslav, Turnov and Liberec would also be accelerated. I am sorry that this proposal actually involves the implementation of a node that includes the line from Čelákovice to Lysá nad Labem, which is currently undergoing a major reconstruction, and I think that this part is continuous and, in a way, an integral part of this node from the northern side. That is why I am intercede for you to support this amendment and for the railway network, which is heavily busy and capacity-efficient, to be built in this northern direction from Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u53	Thank you. In addition to the debate, Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u54	So, colleagues, I am applying to my three amendments, as I have announced in the general debate. The first is Amendment 822, which is discussed this morning and this is the new version of the MMR amendment, the Ministry of Regional Development, which deals with Section 96b of the Construction Act. By mutual agreement, we are not newly removing from the territorial coordination of the line construction, but, on the contrary, we are taking small buildings of the type of well, small civic amenities, the consolidation of land, etc., thereby releasing our hands to those workers of the authorities concerned to engage in important constructions. It's 822. I also refer to Amendment 812, which is the amendment to the amendment by Marek Benda, i.e. the fiction of consent, when I look significantly at my fellow environmental minister Richard Brabec, where by supplementing me, we say that the fiction will not apply to the EIA opinions, i.e. to the opinions of the conformity of buildings with the environment. And for my part, I say out loud and frankly that I would like to leave the fiction there, too, but I respect and understand what tense and sensitive relations are with the European Union, and that is why we do not want to irritate the EIA at international level and rather remove it from the EIA fiction. And in the third time, the amendment I'm applying to has number 811 and it's only a minor technical adjustment to the annex, a better definition of the railway junction Ostrava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u55	Thank you, too, and I have Mr Kupka's factual comment here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u56	Mr President, dear colleagues, just a brief response to the changeling, which concerns the construction law, which was mentioned this morning, because the amendment removes the obligation to ensure the binding position of the zoning authorities of the building sets, actually the sets of buildings specifically listed. So we can sleep easily, because now, for example. it will not be necessary to provide a binding position for flag masts up to eight metres or for circus tents and scenic buildings for film, television or theatre. I would just like to document, at the same time, that if we remove this, there will undoubtedly be a number of equally unique buildings, small and insignificant, for which a binding position will still be needed. I am very much in favour of finding a solution at the next stage for some reasonable removal of a larger set, a general set of buildings so that they really do not have to have the binding position of the zoning authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u57	I also thank you, Mr Member, and I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. I don't see anyone. Please, in fact, or in a debate? In the debate, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the amendment to the House of Press 76/6, which I submit together with Mr Jan Čižinský. The amendment consists in adjusting that in paragraph 19 of the Economic Committee's amendment, the words "Děčín sailing grade' are deleted. The reason is - we dealt with this problem on the subcommittee on nature and landscape conservation about three weeks ago. Unfortunately, we didn't notice that this Děčín is listed among the buildings in this novel, and 20. 5. we have a round table on this point, on this issue. So for this reason, we simply tabled the amendment so that we could buy time and in some way respond to the results of the round table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u59	I thank you, too, and your speech raised Mr Birke's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u60	Thank you for the floor, it will be very short. By your means, I would like to say to the members of the Pirates that your representative is on the Economic Committee, your representative was in all the negotiations. Start talking to each other and tell yourself the things that made the big deal, which means the Pirates. I'm sorry, but I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u61	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u62	Thank you for the floor. I just want to respond. We have the information on how these negotiations are taking place, however, as I have already mentioned, this does not limit a man's parliamentary promise to every Member, and if some of the buildings are contrary to the way we think this country should proceed, we simply protest against them. After all, the pirát wanted to eliminate these buildings on the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u63	Thank you and for the last time I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur is interested in the final word. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u64	I'm interested. I want to thank you so much. This is a serious subject that deserves this kind of space. The debate was sometimes about emotions, but not so much. I was afraid it would be a little worse, so thank you again to the representatives of all the clubs. I look forward to the debate on the Economic Committee, it will be next week on Tuesday 5. 6. We will certainly be careful with the amendments. Of course, I confirm what Mikuláš Ferjenčík says, each of us can make any amendment, I respect that and I would never be against it, but I must also remind you of the agreement - and I do not want to use the word "bloody," but demanding, heavy and very balanced, the maximum possible, what was created here for a quarter of a year. For my part, I am aware that for this reason I will be opposed to those amendments, because what we have completed and discussed is indeed an ideal option, an ideal compromise. [[16.30 hours]] I very much agree with the opinions of colleagues from the ODS, both the rapporteur and the chairman of the Zbyněk Stanjura club. I am ready next week for the Economic Committee to make a proposal for a supplementary resolution by the Economic Committee, where we will ask investors, especially ŘSD and SŽDC, once a year to give feedback on how and if they have used the institute of the so-called interim decision, what is it doing in practice. I believe we can agree on a committee, and if everything goes well, then in 14 days, actually on a day exactly, in a variable week, we could manage the third reading. So once again, colleagues, thank you very much. I appreciate the trust and mutual support, and I believe we can do it and make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u65	Thank you. We've dealt with the final... Is there an interest in the final word? Please. I didn't mean to trick my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, allow me to comment on the debate that has been held, on the second reading. I must say that I am pleasantly surprised by a small number of amendments. I'm always skeptical of these deals. But I wanted to respond here to one thing that might have died here. Mr. Veselý spoke of her. You know, to blame state officials for working badly, that's why the construction obstructions, that's why the lawsuits are, so that's strong coffee for me. I think the problem isn't with the officials today, it's with the system. We have, I would say, very complex bureaucratic procedures, the laws are cumbersome and this is being used by those who want to prevent the development of the Czech Republic, and therefore apply obstructive actions that fall under the table anyway. But the time that's there, no one's gonna give it back to you. So that's just my reaction to what I overheard. And I would like my colleagues who often use this to realize that. Just a good clerk is a good clerk, and he can't be moved by anything. And I think most of the officials are good, and they're in their place. So there have been several Members here with their amendments. I think the sněmovna will deal with them at third reading. And otherwise, I thank all those who have discussed this, and let us believe that the third reading will end well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-016-017.u67	Thank you. Since I have not noted any proposal to return, shorten the time limit, or to ensure that the guarantee committee does not deal with this press, I finish second reading and conclude this item and thank you all. Allow me to read a few apologies among the points. Mr Jan Řehounek 30 apologizes. 5. 2018 from 16.45 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Jan Lipavský apologizes 30. 5. 2018 between 15.30 and midnight due to negotiations. And Mr Jiří Ventruba apologizes from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Let's keep going. Opening point
