ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u1	4. Members Jana Černochová, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on the Security of Defence of the Czech Republic, as amended / House print 17/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading, but at the same time I say that yesterday in writing a letter from the President of the ANO 2011 club was delivered to the House's leadership, where he objects on behalf of 57 Members against this procedure within the meaning of Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3, so we will proceed in the standard way at first reading. The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 17/1 and I will ask the press to state the representatives of the plaintiffs, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the draft amendment to Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on securing the defence of the Czech Republic...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u3	Yes, Madame. I'm begging you, it's really the beginning of today's meeting day. I'm going to ask you to settle down in your seats, lower the noise level, so we can hear what the plaintiff is saying. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u4	I'd like to ask my colleagues here in front of the pitch. [[He's waiting.]] Thank you. The citizens' Democratic Party has already submitted this proposal in the previous parliamentary term and, unfortunately, it has not been discussed, it has certainly lost nothing on its up-to-date nature over the past period. Quite the opposite, I'd say. The proposal is a sort of timetable for us to reach a limit of 2% of GDP in defence spending, which is our unwritten alliance commitment and which our country has not fulfilled in the long run, sometime in 2023 or 2024, and then to guarantee it once and for all. That's our goal. At the same time, the essence of this proposal is that, starting next year, we will be spending 0.2 % of GDP more each year in the country's defence budget than in the previous year, until we reach that limit of 2 percent of GDP, under which it will then no longer be possible to fall. As you know, colleagues and colleagues, the state of our defence has long been unhappy. We are dealing with an internal deficit, which is around CZK 100 billion, military technology is backwards, modernization is stagnating, there is no prospect of stable financing. Unfortunately, despite the relative amount of funding, the necessary acquisitions failed in the past four years, and the Ministry of Defence showed surpluses in the billions of crowns each year, because the courage of Minister Stropnický was lacking to invest and implement the necessary contracts. By the way, where's our hero today? However, this is not an argument for us not to raise our defence budget and for us to continue to rely on our country's defence and security as a matter of course. It's not. There have been many plans to increase the Ministry of Defence's budget here in the past. One can recall the previous government, which initially rejected the opposition's offer to increase the Ministry of Defence's budget to 2% of GDP by 2025, but at least made its own commitment to increase this budget to 1.4 percent of GDP by 2020, as shown by the budget approved for this year and the related budget outlook, or from the results of the management of the Defense Department under the leadership of Minister Stropnický last year, when the surplus appears to be around 4.5 billion. This commitment was probably not meant to be serious, and it was meant only in the spirit of the word "promise you will not grieve" and, like the four years of the work of former Minister of Defense Stropnický. [[9.10 hours]] The defence expenditure guarantee of 2% of GDP was then provided in its programme by many political parties who are now represented here in the Chamber of Deputies, including the ANO movement. This has even included this objective in the programming declaration of its government, which, although not gaining the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, but is currently ruling and unfortunately has taken a negative position on this bill that we are debating here, which is incomprehensible to me. If you have something, colleagues and colleagues, in your programming statement, and someone will serve you the proposal on a silver platter, I do not understand why Prime Minister Babiš's government did not vote for this proposal. After all, I believe that all these unfulfilled promises show that the promises have already been enough and that any commitment has no meaning whatsoever unless it is translated into a binding rule. That is why I would like us to approve this law, which is the only real chance to come to the conclusion that the Czech Republic will meet its allied commitments and that we will indeed reach the target of 2% of GDP sometime in the future. Unfortunately, the previous government has not been able to do anything about this, and it is its fault, or the fault of the former Minister of Defence, that our defense spending is still oscillating around the 1% of GDP threshold, even though he himself was in a unique position when the economy grew. He had the support of the opposition in his investments and a partner in the Ministry of Finance from the same political movement. There is now a programme commitment from the elections of YES, ODS, TOP 09, STAN and KDU of ČSL to reach 2% of GDP in defence by 2024 at the latest. So we have a unique opportunity to achieve this together, and if we want to do so, we should take concrete steps. A lesson from the past that mere declaration is not enough is really something that should bring us all together. Unfortunately, if there is a good math here, and it has already been said on Sunday on the discussion programme where we were with the Minister, so if the surplus of Mr. Stropnický at the Ministry of Defence for 2017 is 4.5 billion, then the able math will immediately calculate that the Czech Republic will thus reach less than 1% of GDP in 2017, so in 2017 we will not actually take even 1 percent of GDP within our alliance commitments, even though the Minister of your Government, who is still a minister in your government, is still incomprehensible to me that a person who has indeed failed in this area, in the area of defence, will be rewarded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I believe that, as a political representation, we owe both our country's defence and its citizens a proper modernisation, a concept from which no one will dodge, as well as things that will really shift our military and defence into the 21st century. I also believe that the current deteriorating international security situation requires this very much. I am also convinced that we owe this to our allies, who logically do not want to pay for stowaways in the collective defence system. In addition, I would like to say that this bill also provides for a new obligation for the government to assess the state of defence of the Czech Republic on a regular basis every four years and, on this basis, the Government's resolution to lay down specific guidelines for the construction, preparation and use of the armed forces for another ten-year planning period, with the prospect of state budget expenditure being an integral part of such guidelines. It is therefore the chapter of the Ministry of Defence for a longer but strictly necessary planning period than is set by the general existing legislation. This will only ensure that the planning horizon is sufficiently long for the implementation of complex and multi-year acquisition processes, and that conditions are created for the planning of activities and development in all areas of the armed forces to be analysed, discussed and processed from a real point of view - I underline real - resource possibilities. My serious colleagues, I believe that there has been enough time for mere promises and not quite serious objectives and their failure to meet them, and that concrete steps must indeed be taken. I am of the opinion that we can find thousands of reasons for not giving defenses to stabilized funding, but that they will always be merely and only proxy reasons. By the way, I heard about these proxy reasons yesterday when I saw the press conference of the Úsvit movement, where on the one hand - sorry, SPD, custom is iron shirt when I see some colleagues here - when you were really looking for only and only representative arguments about why you would not support this proposal. On the one hand, in every public appearance, you talk about how it is necessary for the Czech Republic to be sufficiently prepared for some critical situation, even thinking about restoring military service and other things that reason remains to stand on. On the other hand, where, colleagues, through the President of the SPD, do you want to take funds when you refuse to support this proposal? This law, colleagues, finally offers a solution and a clear timetable to achieve what we are just talking about so far, what may be dreamed of, what may be promised by someone, and perhaps at this moment in Davos to our allies. So it's a unique opportunity for us to actually take that step in the right direction and forward today, and let's stop playing around here, whether it's important to anyone, whether the proposal is submitted by a coalition or by the opposition. As I have repeatedly said, and I think that I may agree with most of you on defense and security, no party books should apply to security. The defence and security of our country is of interest to all of us, so please act accordingly, let us release the proposal at least until further reading, and if you have a different proposal for a different period of time than the one in my proposal, i.e. 0,2 per cent each year, this proposal may be the subject of our discussions and your amendments. I believe that we will agree in the finals and it will be for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u5	Thank you, Madame. Let me read you a few apologies. Mr Lukáš Bartoň apologizes between 9 and 9.30 because of a doctor's visit, Mrs Helena Válková apologises today between 9 and 9.30 for health reasons. And I will now ask the rapporteur to take the floor for the first reading, Mr Josef Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u6	Good morning, colleagues, Mr President. I'm sure our country's defense is our priority. On the other hand, we need to be realistic about this. The parliamentary proposal went to the government and the government gave a negative opinion on this proposal. It's about eight points, and I want to say it in my own words. My colleague has been here in the House since 2010. Here's the graph. We have been in the European Union since 1999. Unfortunately, we have never been able to cross the 2 per cent threshold. First of all. The ODS has been in the government since - I have some graph here again - from 2007, or from 2007 to 2013 with breaks, when Mr Fischer and Mr Rusnok's administrative government were. There has been an economic crisis since 2010 and defense spending has fallen. The Member has been here since 2010. How come she didn't come up with this proposal in 2010? How is it that the Chamber of Deputies approved the budget, where defence spending fell? I understand. We discussed this in the last parliamentary term. There was an economic crisis, which means the government had two options. So it either reduces your expenses, and unfortunately it also reduces your defense expenses, or it says to the elderly: look, we're not gonna raise your pensions, but you're gonna get three free rides in an armored transporter or we're gonna give you a ride in a helicopter. So the government made a decision, and then you said yes correctly, and the security situation is that we can afford to temporarily cut back on defense expenses. So I understand and understand the government's position, which says: we cannot bind ourselves, not just our government, but in the future another government. The last government here has given a coalition commitment that we will increase defense spending to 1.4 by 2020. It is true - and my colleague is right - that the planned budget so far reaches 1,35 in 2020. What's the reason? Thank God the reason is that, or there are two reasons, and one reason is that the economy prospers so that GDP grows more than was expected, that is one. And secondly, and that's the second question that we're failing, we're failing to spend the money in the defense department as much as we want. Well, what's the reason? The reason is that the Minister did not want to follow Mrs Parkanová's steps. How was Mrs. Parkanová? Kalousek said to her, "Don't worry, Vlasta, sign it, easy, we've got it covered, and she's been prosecuting for five years now. So I think the Minister was doing what I would have done, which means he considered the steps he could afford. Yes, he did what I would have done to stabilize our army from the point of view that we stabilized, we gave those soldiers shorts and boots, like I always say, that means equipment issues, and we're hiring people. That's important. We've been up 3,000 people since Mr. Stropnický army started. That means, if I were in his position and I said yes, we have 3,000 more soldiers here, and if you, for example, say, I get helicopters this year or next year, that's not as important to me as 100 percent. The important thing for me is that I have these people and I can train them, I can train them, I can raise them to get the helicopters. So the question is not to deal with the budget, it gives 2 percent hard, because really, and I'm going to mention it one more time that I don't want to tie up, because it's a question not only of economic development but also of security issues. If you take the history of the Czech Republic or the Czechoslovak Republic, then in 1937, if I'm right, given the security situation in Europe, the Czechoslovak Republic gave 37 percent of the defense budget because it knew that there was an attack from Germany. We were building fortifications back then, fortifications, really 37 percent. [[unintelligible]] This means, it is a question of being flexible and comprehensive about what threats are within Europe and what the possibilities of the economy are. Of course, if we were in a situation where it would be such a real threat to the Czech Republic that it would require the necessary, necessary steps, then certainly the government and, of course, Parliament would respond to that. Once again, I want to say that the government adopted a negative position at its meeting. We, as an Yes MP, have responded to this, which means Mr President has received from me... Excuse me, colleague, you're disturbing me. I'm sorry. He has a list of more than 50 Members from me. That means, I suggest we reject in the first phase, virtually. they did not discuss this proposal at first reading. That is, Mr President has there a proposal from me to reject this draft law at first reading, and I will also propose in the debate that we reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. President Stanjura has claimed priority rights. Mr President, will you let me open the debate? Because then I can leave those factual notes after you. So I'm opening up a debate with priority rights... As in "de facto"? Even so, he's got priority, and he checked in early. So we will give one of your priority rights, and then I will point out to my colleagues that they have made factual remarks before the debate is opened. I'll give you the applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u8	Mr. Chairman Stanjura preferred me. Thank you. Mr President, first of all, I am surprised that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u9	That's what we're gonna do. I'm sorry, just for a second. So I'm gonna ask everyone who wants to come forward with the facts to come forward again, so it's fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u10	Firstly, Mr President, I am surprised and I think it is your failure not to mortify the rapporteur, Hájek, who has not presented the news report here, who has normally acted as a debate here. He should have said what he said in the debate. The rapporteur has a different role to play. So I ask that if you are so strict with us and the Rules of Procedure, you do so with your colleagues. First of all. Secondly, through the President, Mr Hájek, are you confusing the European Union and NATO? It may have been a misrepresentation, but what you said in those first sentences - and read it or play it from the record - you are completely out of line because you are talking about the European Union, and here we are discussing a proposal that concerns collective defence. We do not have a European army of praise, I believe we will never have it. So please do a little research before you're making a smart one. That someone is failing to spend money is really why we are not putting money into the budget. How does someone actually let this out of their mouth? After all, he fundamentally denies the fact that people who are in positions in ministries are doing their job well. You guys have been presenting an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. It was your bill, it was your Madam Secretary who submitted it, it was me - check it again from the record - which I have performed here several times and asked if the law would facilitate the legislative... acquisition process in terms of acquisitions at the Ministry of Defence. If the Minister of Defense at the time answered me graciously, he replied that yes, of course he had it treated. So, excuses again? You haven't ruled here in a month. You ruled here with Minister Stropnický at the head of the Ministry of Defence for four years, colleagues and colleagues. And it was every year he had the money left. [[9.30 hours]] With regard to the comments made by Mr Hájek, who was referring to the European Union, he probably meant to NATO that in 2010 the government, the Nečasův government, and I was already the first parliamentary term at the time that we did not propose to increase the budget. Mr. Colleague, at that time, all our governments put much more money into the Ministry of Defence in terms of GDP than every year, every year of these four years of your government. Governments in which the Civil Democratic Party participated have never let the defense department, conversion to GDP, fall below 1%, as it has become a four-year term three times in total! Yes, it wasn't 2 percent, it was 1.4, it was 1.6, 1.33, depending on the time periods, but it was never, never, never, never as little as it's been for the last four years. And my words are verifiable, I've had these graphs in several TV debates, and I think even the former Defense Minister has already learned to read and understand the charts and how GDP is derived. I am still interested in the words of Mr Hájek, the rapporteur, Hájek, through the President, "poor Stropnický." Well, I guess so. But I'm here to cry out, poor Karla Šlechtová! Because poor Stropnický left Mrs. Karla Šlechtová on the table to sign the acquisition, as he says, you heard it from his mouth, too, for CZK 25 billion. So the parable with Mrs. Parkanová may have really been some kind of memento for Mrs. Šlechtová? Since you refer to one minister as a poor man, I agree with you exceptionally, and you do not speak this way about Mrs. Karla Šlechtová. Is it because you have a problem with us women, colleague Hájek? Or what's the problem here that you're judging two ministers from the same side of your government in a different way, another subway, that there's regret that someone can get into that carousel of prosecution and ruin his life, just like in Mrs. Parkanová's case. So really, if I were you, through the President, I would rather try to do everything I can to get Minister Šlechtová to find out as quickly as possible about this issue, she is doing well over the past few weeks, and that those acquisitions that we are talking about will be dealt with in an accelerated manner and that the Czech Republic will be clear on the way. And in order to ensure long-term funding, that is why I am here today presenting this bill. Like I said, there's no time to waste. The economic boom won't last forever, years of successful economics will be poorer, and if we don't prepare for this, we'll never catch up with the internal deficit our army has. So let's really stop dealing with any of us's party cards here, there are nine of us, and let's approach this responsibly, and let's not confuse NATO, the European Union, and let's measure all ministers equally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u11	Thank you, Madame. Just a reminder - I've been so strict in managing the meeting so far that I've always been there for you. I hope I don't have to rethink it, and the way we do it, that's the way we're gonna have it. [[Applause in the left side of the hall.]] Allow me to read a few more apologies. Today, Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes for working reasons all day. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková apologises from ten o'clock to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. And now the rapporteur's speech. The applicant's first speech raised several factual points. Mr Krejza, then Vice-President Fiala, then Mr Peksa, is the first to comment. So in that order, please. Then Mr Benešík, then with the factual remark of Minister Šlechtová. First, Mr Krejza, please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I respond more to the rapporteur than to the rapporteur. In fact, in his debate or in his contribution to the debate, he told us what the problem was. Here are many other electoral groups that simply take precedence over the defence of the Czech Republic. It's like, 30,000 soldiers, or people, then up to 50,000, it's not that much. First of all. Two. There used to be a rumor that the Číňan would beat us with hats when they decided. Well, if only we'd gotten those hats with the trench coats and boots. We could use that. And then, please, the year 2010, the year 1999 -- well, we're gonna have to blame ourselves for peeing sometime in 1970. Well, I'd like us to think about the changed security situation at the moment and help the army. And one last thing. Yes, it's a problem to compete with any contract today. But that's what we, we ourselves have done here, and we can do something about it, too. So please, let's think about the Czech Republic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u13	Thank you for keeping time. I seem to have forgotten to note in the protocol that Mr Okleštěk votes with a replacement card number 4 and Mr Beitl with a replacement card number 3. The Minister withdraws his point of order with the fact that he wishes to speak with priority rights. So now Vice-President Fiala with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u14	Thank you. I will try not to ignore the inadequacy of the rapporteur's speech in his role as rapporteur, and I will respond to the political arguments that he made in that speech. Firstly, I consider it essentially smiling and completely impossible to argue here about what a government did in 2010 or 2011. I would like to remind you that the ANO movement is managed by the Ministry of Defence for the fifth year and for its condition and for the state of investment in defence and money that goes into defence, it is fully responsible. You can't appeal to anyone else. Secondly, it is completely out of context and perhaps any rationality to argue with the past in such a serious matter as defence spending. The security situation around the world has changed significantly, the security situation in Europe has changed, the security situation around the Czech Republic has changed, the conditions have changed within the North Atlantic Alliance, the US's alternative approach to spending on defense of other member countries of the North Atlantic Alliance. This is all the context in which we need to consider defense spending. And it is this context that should lead all of us to fulfil our commitment and finally give 2% of GDP in defence. We have all the conditions, we have economic assumptions. There's no reason why we shouldn't do this. Thirdly, this is the last point that I want to respond to the speech of the rapporteur, Mr Hájek. Well, the fact that we have soldiers in the army, that's nice. But we're not fighting wars in the 19th century, and we don't have a defense system that's enough for that time. We're in the 21st century, and if these soldiers don't have adequate weapons, matching technology, it's all useless. Therefore, one of the key criteria for quality and investment in how defence spending is effectively spent is the share of investment, the share of investment funds, and that is where your government has also failed significantly. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u15	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Peksa. Mr. Benešík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u16	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be more brief and less emotional. Unfortunately, the 2% quota, as is known, as is often discussed, does not work like all other quotas. The sad reality is that only six Member States currently meet this 2% quota from 28 NATO states. The side effect of introducing similar quotas is that money can either not be spent or, on the contrary, it is spent inefficiently, which is, unfortunately, more counterproductive. We'd better tell each other what our defenses really need. I'm afraid in the 21st century it's not really another tank. I understand that Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, likes to take pictures with weapons. Unfortunately, information wars in the 21st century are primarily decided by information. And the best defense against current threats is the educated and informed population. When I look at the possible increase to 2 percent, which would cost us about 40 billion. Every year, so here I see great potential for increasing the budget that we are currently spending on education and which is completely undervalued due to our real needs. Let's stop talking about these pointless spending on other shiny weapons and talk about what our teachers need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u17	Thank you, colleague. Now, with Mr Benešík's factual remark, then Mr Rakušan. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government - only to the rapporteur. I'm not gonna criticize him, I'm not gonna be able to evaluate the content. He's just committed a rather fundamental inaccuracies in history. In 2004, the Czech Republic joined the European Union, which has nothing to do with this debate. In March 1999, the Czech Republic entered NATO under the rule of Miloš Zeman. I remember this very well because shortly thereafter, the government of Miloš Zeman agreed and supported the so-called humanitarian bombing of Serbia by NATO.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u19	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Rakušan, then Mr Juříček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps, also through you, to Mr Peks. We, like you, believe that it is necessary to have an accurate strategy of what threats the Czech Republic is currently actually and really putting at risk. The fact that it is not good to buy a technique without having a precise strategy, the patterns of threats that are up to date at the moment, is true, on the other hand, we must realise that we have voluntarily entered the North Atlantic Alliance and entered there with some clear commitment. We are currently one of the Black Passengers of the North Atlantic Alliance, we are not fulfilling our obligations. Even the fact that our former soldiers are getting their debts is now included in our defense expenses. If this were deducted from military spending, that real number could be moving somewhere else. That is why, at this moment, I say to the Mayors and Independents Club that we support this proposal, because we believe that no matter what kind of government guarantee is in power, we, as the Czech Republic, are to fulfil our obligations to our allies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u21	Thank you. Mr Juříček, then Mrs Černochová, then Vice-President Fiala, then Mr Schwarzenberg and then Mr Brázdil, no matter how it goes. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not used to performing here, but I have three things. I absolutely agree with Mr Fiala through the President that let us not look at the past and still do not go back to the various circumstances that we blame ourselves for in the past. Let's look at the present and the future, first of all. And it's not just about the military. It's about other questions. Secondly, I think that we should discuss that 2% of GDP is a parameter that leads to inefficiency, and I think that we need to discuss with NATO that there are issues of systemic technology, that are the questions of military techniques themselves, and that is to lead us to spend unnecessary money. And then we'll see where this level is supposed to be. That means putting it on a qualitative level, not just "spending money." Thirdly, I have to tell you, because I know it from business, even though I don't do business in military technology - look at manufacturers of military technology and military systems like the EBITDA they have. It's ten percent. And it's not a business that's customary, and it's a business that makes incredible money. This means that the Minister has a great deal of room for prices to shrink rather than spend money just like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Černochová, then Vice-President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By your means, I would like to respond to my colleague Peksa. He's been here a while, so maybe he hasn't figured out what he's talking about yet. This isn't about raising the Ministry of Defense's budget to buy weapons. Černochová guy buys guns from her own. Černochová is a legal holder of an arms license and acts in accordance with the law. Whether someone is taking pictures or not, through the President, you know, colleague, maybe you'd rather take pictures with an assault rifle than the flag of Antifa or Stalin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u25	Thank you. Vice-President Fiala, then Mr Schwarzenberg. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u26	My point in fact also relates to Mr Peksa's speech. I don't mind a very inappropriate personal attack, or a personal remark to Mrs Černochová. I will only try to address the arguments that have been raised in your contribution, Mr President. One. The argument that only six states are keeping 2% of GDP at present is not correct, because we do not propose that we, as the Czech Republic, have 2% of GDP next year. We propose that we come to this gradually by 2024. And there are a number of other states that, in the current situation, are planning to raise funds to the military to reach a commitment of 2% of GDP. It's the only way you can look at it. And there's a lot more than six countries that you mentioned here in your speech. Then there's a comparison with the funding for education, the salaries of teachers and these things. Don't be angry with me, Mr President, but that is demagogy. And it's a low demagogy, and I'm surprised you're falling for it. I also care about the means of education, but I would never dare put these expenses next to me. The modern, well-managed state that we care about, which at least I care about, is a state that can invest in both education and defence, considers it something obvious and fulfills its functions. But building this money against each other is totally fake, wrong, and it's not gonna bring us anywhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u27	Thank you. Now, with Mr Schwarzenberg's factual remark, Mr Brázdil will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u28	Mr President, honourable Members, it is true that, in the 1950s after World War II, Western European countries used to reduce their defence budget year after year, because they relied on the United States to protect them. Which was happening, too. Sometimes they murmured because the United States had a greater say in NATO's alliance, but because they did not want to pay themselves, they were understood to do so. Unfortunately, our country, as soon as we joined the Western states, has accepted a similar mischief. And it's a serious mistake. I'm not a soldier, I admit it openly, but as former Secretary of State, I can only tell you one thing. We have a bad reputation for making promises, but we don't take it so seriously with respect. Whether it's the adoption of the euro or whether it's a percentage of defense spending. [[unintelligible]] We stick to the old Czech proverb "promise no one to grieve," but we must finally realize that by not meeting the promise of everyone you piss off! And we're doing quite well. [[9.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must finally realise that the situation has changed, that the Američan, whether it was President Obama in Amsterdam or President Bush, have told us: Please take care of your defenses yourself. This is what we must do within NATO with the help of the European Union. Let's finally take our own defenses seriously! [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Or why should anyone else take our state seriously anymore? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u29	Thank you. Now, with Mr Brázdil's point of fact, then Mrs Vrecionová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u30	Thank you, Mr President, Mr President. I'd like to respond to the fact that we're not black passengers, that we have elite troops. I don't want to say... why should I agree to such a claim that we're some kind of black passengers? We're doing what we can. The chemists are here, paramedics. So I'm responding to a fellow Rakušan, and I don't think that's true. I'd hate for these people to be dehonested, that we're bad somewhere. We're just good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u31	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Vrecionová's point of fact, then Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u32	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I just want to turn your attention to a recent election campaign. Three months ago, we were all left, right, in the middle, I don't know, just to be correct, I haven't heard it from the pirát, constantly repeating how we have to ensure the safety of our citizens. In the meantime, the entire government coalition adopted one law after another for the past four years, which is more concerned with how to raise our citizens. He tells us when to go shopping, when to go to kindergarten, what to eat, if we don't have too much sugar, where our kids can buy in schools. I think these are exactly the kind of things that the state doesn't have to deal with. And one of the key things he's supposed to do is defend himself. Please, let this law go into the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u33	I, too, thank you, Madame, for the exemplary observance of time. With a factual remark, Mr Farský, then Mr Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly support this proposal because it is a voluntary commitment that we signed up to when we joined NATO, and that we do not comply with it at a time when we have surplus budgets, it is really difficult to explain ourselves to our NATO partners. The fact that there was some contradiction between whether military and security should go into a conflict with education, that is not at all and must not be and cannot be. Indeed, it would be demagogical. But at the same time, I would like to draw attention to one option that we have in the military budget and which our allies are taking advantage of in a rather forceful way, and that is education. Military universities, high schools, which have a huge advantage in that those who are going to study for them do not burden any other costs, and at the same time, they can also involve those who, for example, could not afford education for their social status, but talented people. This is an area where we have a great deal of space to really, this increase, not just put into heavy machinery, into ammo, but to go into education. And if we manage to enrich education like this in difficult regions such as northern Bohemia, Ústecký Region, Karlovy Vary Region, if it could be established there, and we tried to put it in the framework of the election campaign and in the programme, if a branch or other educational institution could be established there, it could be a great help for this region, and it would also help to ensure long-term security. Because it is a fundamental task of the state to ensure security for its citizens. And it's not about raising soldiers there, but it's about raising doctors there, educateing people, even I.T.s, engineering people. Those are the people who serve in the military for a while, and then they can cross into civilian space. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And it's one of the recipes where the real money for defense also performs the educational function. [[Thank you.]] And that's what I'd focus on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u35	Thank you. For the record, at this point, we have four factual points left to make. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Rakušan, Mr Bartošek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u36	Thank you, Mr President, and through you to Mr Brázdil. We got the wrong idea. I am very sure that the Czech Republic has very good soldiers. Soldiers with good reputation, they have great troops that really honor our republic on all their missions, we have units that have high credit in the eyes of other North Atlantic alliances. However, so that we can maintain such credit so that our soldiers are at the top and in the future even in modern areas such as. Fighting hybrid threats, etc., is simply and simply needed to continuously increase spending into the army in the Czech Republic. The black passenger meant that we simply didn't meet our expenses, that we bought a slightly cheaper ticket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u37	Thank you. Now, with Mr Bartošek's factual remark, then Mr Peksa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u38	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to turn against the fact that the Czech army are black passengers. It's not like that. The Czech army is doing a very good job on missions, we have very good units and we need to appreciate our army. What is the mistake of the previous government that we agreed internally within the coalition YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL that we will increase our defense spending. We couldn't even do it in the last coalition. I am also sorry because the previous resorts were managed primarily by the ANO movement. MMR - Public Procurement Act, Defence - also the YES movement, Ministry of Finance - also the YES movement. At the beginning of our coalition, we made this resolution and a gentleman's agreement to increase these funds. I think that's one of the mistakes of the previous coalition that she didn't keep. And if we commit to two percent of the law, I think that this is the right way, although unfortunately it is another limit towards the budget of the Czech Republic. But unfortunately, if there is no agreement, it must be regulated by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u39	Thank you. Now, with Mr Peksa's factual remark, then Mr Vích. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u40	Thank you. I would still like to take the liberty, through Mr President, of responding to President Fiala. I don't think we've completely understood each other. I certainly don't want to build an education and a classic defense based on tanks and planes against each other. I'm just saying that today, population education is basically an element of the country's defence. We're facing these problems here that we have various hate content spreading on social networks, politicians don't know what to do with it. We heard they're introducing a law in Germany to censor it. It's inefficient, it limits freedom of speech, it doesn't solve the problem. What we need is for people in themselves to proactively reject this content. The vast majority of these misinformations are rejected on the basis of simple progoogling, two or three clicks, and you will find it nonsense. People need to make that move and reject the misinformation. This is what we need to do now to ensure the security of the Czech Republic. Don't buy any more overpriced tanks, planes, and support these tunnels that run in military procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u41	Thank you, too. Now, with Mr Vích's point of fact, Mr Munzar will be prepared, then Mr Žáček and we have three more. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u42	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr President. The army has been receiving, on average, half of what it should receive since 2004. It Oscillates somewhere between 1,04, but generally around 1%, that is, all governments since 2004 have more or less contributed to the fact that the army was getting half of what it was supposed to receive. To date, this deficit is about 500 billion. I personally take the view that the military should receive more money, but it should receive enough to be able to accommodate it as well. She needs to be ready for this. One year it could be 1.8, the other year it could be 1.6. But then it could also be 2.4 if we're talking about large acquisitions, such as the purchase of belt armored vehicles of the BVP2 type, which have been at the official end of life since 2015, and this is how I could continue. [[10.00 hours]] In my opinion, the fact that it would be enacted by jump or forward-looking 2% would lead to inefficiency. It could also end by suddenly finding out over the course of the year that the acquisitions aren't ready at a certain stage, and buying 12 Gripens, or buying 12 Venom helicopters just to spend the two percent. Finally, allow me to continue with Mrs Černochová through Mr President. The SPD doesn't want to restore basic military service. The SPD wants to introduce eight-week basic military training for recruiters on a voluntary basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u43	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Žáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u44	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would have responded to the information war. I believe that this concept is not adequate in the current situation, and clearly so. I think that the Czech Republic, like other countries, participates in its leadership, participation in NATO's intelligence umbrella, so it is not entirely unconnected. However, conflicts in Syria, conflicts in the east of Ukraine or conflicts in Afghanistan do not only win information. The information is appropriate, but it may not lead to victory either. To do this, it is necessary to have the appropriate equipment, to be able to wage a conventional war, of course, in terms of quality and modern equipment of the 21st century. If we postpone this decision, in the medium term, or five, ten years, we will be threatening the fightability of the Czech Army, both in the context of our concept of defence of the Czech Republic and within NATO. So today we decide what the situation will be in five, ten years. And the delay, as we said here, is quite large and must not be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u45	Thank you. That's how the first block of factual remarks ended and priority rights come in. So first, Prime Minister Stanjura, then Secretary Šlechtová. And let's see what the actual notes are. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u46	Thank you for the floor. So, the next time Members of Parliament have no priority right to say how there are two categories of Members and those who have a priority right to take precedence, look: there have been factual comments for almost an hour. And I would like to comment that 75 percent of them were the standard speech in the debate, only colleagues and colleagues did not want to wait. But that's on the edge. Mr Hájek, rapporteur, is the head of our Parliament's delegation to NATO. We chose him freely, we chose him in a democratic secret choice. I would expect him to be the first to support this law. I'm bohužel not. And I think it's just for politically prestigious reasons, because the political arguments he's made here aren't gonna hold up if I use a politically correct dictionary. Let us first look at the proposal, virtually. Today the approved budget for 2018. Mr rapporteur, how much is the total amount of mandatorial expenditure? What percentage of GDP is dictatorial expenditure? I don't mean defense. I mean, overall. We're not trying, I'll answer it right away. That was a rhetorical question. 756 billion are mandatory expenses without quasi-mandatory expenses, which are wages. So really, every government has roughly 300 billion by the way we're set up by law. manoeuvring space for your political priorities. 756 billion. Two tenths of a percent of GDP, if I round it up, is 10 billion. per year. One percent or 1.2% of legal mandatorial expenses, and we don't have economic space for that. The economy is growing and, autonomously, by growing the economy, tax revenues of the state, including social insurance income paid by the employer to its employees, are rising by 50 billion annually. per year. About 1% of GDP. And someone here is telling us with a serious face that two tenths of a percent of GDP is something that would bind the government. Which is tied up by 756 billion mandatorial expenses from the law today. Someone who has not lived on our globe for eight years can compare the security situation in 2010 and 2018. And only mechanically. Many colleagues have spoken about this before. Here's a rhetorical question. How many conflicts in the world in 2010? What was the security situation in 2010 in the world, Europe and the Czech Republic? And embarrassing spending less than 1% of GDP. I agree with Mr Juříček that we should not now try as it was in 2007, 2008, 2009, who was the minister at the time and who did it worse or better. But the fact that we can evaluate if we wanted to - I don't want - the last term wasn't that long ago. Plus, when one movement actually continues to be in charge of the defense department. A moment ago, Mr. SPD Member showed that he did not know the budgetary rules. Just because I budget it doesn't mean I have to spend it that year. That's completely stupid. And we are aware of the complexity of the acquisition process. That is why the bill is intended to cover expenses. And if this happens in December of the calendar year, or the acquisition process ends five months later, i.e. In May of the following year, it doesn't affect the money. Total nonsense that they have to spend themselves by the end of the year and that they will not be effective spending. In the debate, it was said that the military's internal deficit was 500 billion. Kroner, from one of my colleagues. Someone said hundreds of billions of crowns. At the same time, other colleagues say: If we increase spending there, it will be ineffective. Mr Peksa, don't be mad at me - I don't have to say this through the means that I will not address you, but if it bothers you, it will be through the President. Those Peacemakers who say, "What do we have the defense for?" - they're very dangerous. I know you don't mean any harm, but it's a dangerous approach. And if we're dealing with cybersecurity, and I agree with you that there's an information war going on, it's also expenses for the Department of Defense. We have failed to propose an increase in expenditure specifically in this area. And he'll be moving there. And it takes a lot of money, but it takes a long time. Because it's not like buying guns. This is where you have to build your personnel to ensure that it works properly. So we have to see it in the whole context. We have heard that the previous government has committed to have 1.4 percent of GDP by 2020, and it is still sticking to that as a mantra. Okay, but if we have 1.0 and we're in 2018 and twice 0.2, what will it be in 2020, Mr rapporteur? One whole four. How can you be against it? I don't understand. It's also in the government's programming statement. If you want to change the deadline, let's discuss it! Let's drop it! Forget about the party shirt, it has to be presented by a member of the ANO movement. By the way, we didn't bring this up alone in the last parliamentary term. Some of the others signed with us, if I'm not mistaken. And even you didn't help us get it on the agenda at all. We could've had a bit of a debate behind us. Not at the beginning of the first reading, with the suggestion that I refuse. What's next? Will you come up with a better, more comprehensive, more sophisticated proposal? Or don't you want to deal with it at all? That's fair to say. If you don't want to deal with this, and you're pretending that the government's gonna be here all the time, then should I take seriously the government's programming statement? Does it say you want to go to two percent of GDP? Maybe a year later than in this proposal. Well, that's why we have a second reading. Changing suggestions. That's why we're ready to debate. There's nothing wrong with that. But when are we gonna start this debate if we dump it in the trash today? We can ask the Minister, who will speak after me, if he plans, when he wants to present his own, better, more comprehensive proposal. Isn't it better to take this as a basis and have the debates? I think it's much better. [[10.10 hours]] I'm going back to the election campaign. There are parties here that don't support our NATO membership if I say it nicely. I respect that. But the vast majority of the parties that are in the Chamber of Deputies today said that they support our membership of NATO. And the fact that the bad guys or the black passengers are 22 or what, that's no reason for me to be among them. I don't even want to ask where we end up in 2017, if we see the final number when the final account is. That's not important. We're not doing this because someone's telling us you're not paying enough. At least we don't. We do this because we think it is good for the Czech Republic and for the security of its citizens. And that this is a long-term task that is not to be dependent on the current government majority, whatever it is. And 10 billion. annual - no finance minister is able to hit 10 billion in tax revenue. It's not. So let's not go around saying that this is a budget irresponsible proposal. On the contrary, he is budgetaryly responsible, creating a medium-term perspective for defending the Czech Republic. For us, I say, we're ready to talk about whether it shouldn't be a year longer or a year less. That's a legitimate debate. But the person who votes against today and votes for rejection is basically saying: the campaign is over, forget the passwords, now we're going to do something else. And it would be a terrible shame. Not for the ODS, not for us who are signed under it, but for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Three Members wish to respond to your speeches with a factual remark. Mr Černý is the first Member to prepare Mr Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use the excellent institute to make factual remarks to tell you, gradually, through the factual remarks to which I will report continuously, what I originally wanted to say in the debate. I'm sure Mr. Stanjura was right that this is the way to proceed. So far, so it seems. And I imagine there are nine clubs here in this House, i.e. 2 people from each club have a preferential right, if I add to the members of the government, of course still the House officials, so without convincing each other in any way, I think we can also happen that we will never get to the floor. That's quite a reality. It is true, again, that the ones I have listed now are paid a little better, so let them work out here, why not, but perhaps it would be quite good to suggest that we could carry out our mandate remotely, say that we would arrive every once in a while, vote something, still not get into the debate, so we could solve our problems. Try to think about it, we've got plenty of time, nothing's pressing us. So let me respond to what has been said and thus fill the substance of the factual point. Of course I can't make it, so I'm sorry I have to apply over and over again. First of all, I have to comment on women so that there's no mistake. I certainly don't have a problem with women. And I even have to say that I have been very understanding with the President of the Defence Committee for the past few weeks, because we often encounter debates where we should evaluate either the former minister or the state of the army, and that is not the problem. We usually agree there and it is only surprising that the agreement occurs so often. I suppose it will be the same with the Minister. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you. I'll try to pick up the next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u49	There. You kept yourself in the limits of factual remarks, although perhaps you did not intend to. Mr Hájek, then Mr Peksa, is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u50	Mr President, fellow Members, I must strongly refer to the words of my colleague Stanjura. He said here that I was elected chairman of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation. That's right. And if I am the head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation, I certainly want to promote the interests of the Czech Republic in NATO. And what's going on? If we were in a situation where the budget is falling, I would be the first one here to propose that we anchor 2% of GDP in our legislation. But this year we have a budget of 59 billion, next year we have a budget of 66 billion, for 2020 77 billion. And the commitment given by the government in resignation is that in 2024 it will have 2% of GDP... Does that mean what's going on here? Here is a clear goal of achieving 2% of GDP in 2024. First of all. Secondly, the budget proposed for 2019 and 2020 shows that we are going in the right direction. That means that the debate that's here is pointless to me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Peksa, then Mr Černý, then Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would only respond through the President to my colleague Stanjura. I'd like to turn against those Peacemaker words. I'm definitely not calling on some unilateral disarmament here, that's not really my plan. Here's the thing, let's talk about what real threats are for the Czech Republic, respectively. The European Union as a whole and what we can do about it. Is this a threat to the Russian Federation? Is China the threat? Or who's the threat? If we look at the European Union's military expenditure as a whole, i.e. the 28 countries that are combined in it, if we add them together, we get to a figure that is roughly three times as much as the military spending of the Russian Federation. Do we need it to be four times? Five times? Or what's the target state? That's the question I'm asking myself because I don't see why it should be four or five times more. What I see as a problem and what I point out is that the European Commission is spending about 30 percent of the expenditure that we spend inefficiently, because we do not have a common armament system, we do not buy tanks and other weapons together, we buy each other's types, they are incompatible with each other, and it is a problem. So let's talk about what we need and what we need to spend as resources, and maybe we can figure out that we don't really need that 2%. Yes, I understand that Russia is spending 5.5 percent of GDP. And I do not think we should chase them because 5.5 percent of GDP is still far less than what we spend in the European Union as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u53	Thank you, too. Mr Černý, then Mrs Černochová, then President Stanjura, will be involved in factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador. I hope you will respond to the performance of your previous speakers in the context of a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u54	Of course, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, I will only move within the limits which are intended to do so. What has been said here allows me to respond to almost everything, but I will say it gradually. I'm not gonna repeat, I'm sorry, the compliments I made at the beginning, but I'm gonna try to follow up on that. I don't want to pass anything on to the petitioners, no way. But if the futures were preferably over a hundred, over 100 billion, designed to be used exclusively for the defence of the Czech Republic, we would probably find it difficult to find arguments why not. Unless we could ask them what's leading them to this amount. I'm going to try, because I think we should be quite interested, after all, it's about money in the first place in all cases, and imagine that all the chapters would be greasy like this. Well, then we're really almost useless here, it's no use going anywhere. The time I have yet to define is sufficient for me to pay my respects to the current government in demise, because I could sign their negative opinion on this proposal with the exception of the tiny exceptions. And I am almost certain that if this debate continues long enough, we will be able to convince those who hesitate to do so, that we do not really need this law at this time. The army's 100-billion-dollar internal debt was reported many years ago. The budget didn't correct the $100 billion, so the $100 billion debt went up. In the next technical remark, I'll tell you what's going to happen with 500 billion. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u55	Thank you. I would just like to say one thing for everyone performing with a point of fact that it is registered with the Prime Minister's priority right. Perhaps it would contribute to the debate if you allowed it to perform and then continue to be factual. Of course, who's logged in... It's a gentleman's request for those who are considering a factual remark if they wouldn't want to hide it after the Madam Secretary's speech. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u56	Thank you. I will only respond very briefly by means of you to my colleague Hájek. The 2% wasn't made up. The 2% was already mentioned at the Wales Summit that they should be applied among the states for the last US president, even at the present time. Subsequently, and they were ministers of your government, through the President, colleague Hájek, who said yes, that they were aware that these obligations had to be fulfilled, because the rule of pacta sunt servanda applies. As for 1.4 percent of GDP from last time, that was the problem. You had it in the coalition contract, and you didn't keep it. That's why I think the only option is to treat it in the law. And not even the programming statement you have it in. And it's a wonder you're saying something else now, you're not applying. That's one way to change, of course. You know, it would, as you said those beautiful numbers, how the budget goes up, that would be true if your minister were able to spend the money. I've said this before. I'm sorry. [[The speaker turns to a government bench where a Farsky MP and Secretary of Defense are speaking loudly.]] I've said this before. There is no way that every year, when the Minister was left on average around 5 billion, one year in 2015 was less, because he had prepaid the Gripens and it was only 2.5 billion, so that this would be counted on the fact that defense spending was going up. They're not coming up. They're coming down. I mean, as I say, we're going to be below 1% of GDP in 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u57	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura and then Mr Černý. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u58	I would like to use the factual point to respond to Mr Peksa's speech and to some other colleagues. We are certainly in favour of discussing the costs that the Czech Republic will make so that the Czech army will be effective. But that's nothing against this bill. I think it's an obvious assumption that these expenses must be effective. That every state buys the weapons it wants, virtually. There's no compatibility, that's a fact. And Mr. Juříček spoke of it. So if anyone's strong, it's the armory industry. Ask... The fact that our government guarantees 2019 in demise is an absurd sentence, but so be it. Ask the current members of the government or Prime Minister whether he has already been contacted by a country leader who wants to supply some weapons to the Czech Republic. I guess I do, though I don't know anything about it. These are contracts that are negotiated at the level of prime ministers, presidents, defense ministers. So let's just take this as a fact. That's the world we live in. At the same time, let's say that we have our own industry and that it is also the task of the Czech Republic and the Czech government, if it is competitive goods and it is good price to supply Czech companies. But I'm sure we live in a place like this. And the last - about Russia's spending and the European Union's. It was said "let's not remember," but sometimes we have to remember. So you remember the Cold War? And why did communism fall? Among other things, because he was unable to cope with functioning economies in defence spending. And we armed the communists. The fact that we don't need the law is clear. They want to get out of NATO. Then why should they support any expenses? [[Unintelligible.]] I understand, even though I disagree. I'm not gonna convince them. But the rest of you. We're doing this for ourselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u59	Thank you. Now allow me to read briefly the apologies. Mr Birke initially apologized until 11 o'clock, changing his apology and apologizing throughout the day for business reasons. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes from 10.30 to 11.45 for work reasons. Now a point of fact - Mr Černý. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will, of course, respond to the previous speakers, in this case to my colleague Stanjura. You know, getting out of the North Atlantic Alliance would cost us an unimaginable cost. We're not crazy enough to think of something like that as a one-time step that won't be complemented by anything else. So, Mr Stanjur, through the President, take note that the KSČM Club is not a poor spirit and does not want to leave the North Atlantic Alliance to force the Czech Republic to defend 30, 40, maybe half of our budget. We just don't want that. So, of course, we have a project that should replace our participation in the Alliance. But now I'm going to go back to that, too, so it's a reaction to what's already been said here, so I'm going to try to tell you what's going on with the 500 billion. You know that the extent of internal debt 100 to 500 billion, of course, is a little strong coffee. The 500 billion was created by someone's work and calculated how much the army lacked, in case the previous Garnitures had already received an imaginary 2% of the gross domestic product. Then we would approach the 500 billion internal debt. It's fiction. It's obviously a sucked-up number. We could fabricate any number of these. In my next point of fact, I will try to answer that or ask myself why we are doing all of this, what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u61	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Good morning, everyone. Now with priority rights, Minister Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am very pleased to be getting to the point of the Ministry of Defence after an hour and a half. Thank you for the opportunity to perform here. I will speak very briefly on the debate that has taken place here, on several points, and in conclusion, I will comment on the proposal from the Member, because that is what we are all discussing here today, and we will vote on it. Nothing else. One. I am very pleased that all political parties across this Chamber consider the defence of the Czech Republic to be their priority. I'm glad to hear it. I'm sure the Defense Department's employees are happy to hear it, but mostly the soldiers who provide for it. You know I've said several times that I want a defenseable and combatable army of the Czech Republic. But other things have to do with it, whether it's a budget, whether it's acquisitions, whether it's proper and proper planning of needs from soldiers through the General Staff, who will travel to the Ministry of Defence. It's the needs that have to be mapped. Two. I feel a little like a mill wheel here. I joined the Department of Defense five weeks ago. I've been there for five weeks researching, dealing with all the stuff that's on my desk. And I would also like to know if in four years there will be any Member for any political group who says that if I sign those contracts, I may be just as much like Mrs Parkanová. But at least those soldiers will have the equipment, they'll have the equipment, and they'll have the technology they don't have at the moment. We have Russian cannons. We have radars that are 15 years after their lifetime. And why didn't that matter? There are a lot of things on my desk right now. I'm in charge. I'll figure it out. And I'm gonna hope that in the last four years, there's gonna be someone standing here who's gonna say that it's been handled correctly and that we're glad that Šlechtová signed it. The Ministry of Defence, the Army of the Czech Republic has a long-term plan called the Construction Concept of the Army of the Czech Republic. It is a plan for the construction of the Army of the Czech Republic until 2030. Sobotkův's government approved it. It went through the defense committee. So there's a plan. This plan contains various important acquisition projects, which are also based on our commitment to membership of the North Atlantic Alliance. There is a medium-term plan for this so-called KVAČR, which is already discussing the big things into really plans and timetables and, of course, a price estimate of how the army will even implement these needs through acquisition processes at the Ministry of Defence. At this point, I can say that not everything fits, but I hope that in maybe a year, a year and a half, we will be able to make sure that everything is properly planned and that it fits the QUACR's medium-term objectives, which, of course, we have also sent to NATO, because we have shown that we are committed to the two percent. [[10.30 hours]] My really great goal is to ensure the needs of soldiers - from the last soldier through, of course, our soldiers in missions, the General Staff etc. Just so you know how it works. The Ministry of Defence basically has, I call it, another section, which is the General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, which controls the Army of the Czech Republic, which means soldiers. The General Staff is responsible for coming to the Ministry of Defence so-called specifications according to the needs that should be linked to the medium-term objectives that should be linked to the QUACR. The specs go, but the specs often, sometimes they're not real. Then a marketing survey takes place for two years, which is a demonstration of, for example, multipurpose helicopters. And here I can convey public information, where I currently have the result of a marketing survey after two years. After two years, no one passed. So at this point, I've assigned the General Staff that by 31 January, I want an exact real specification for the acquisition of multipurpose helicopters that will be applicable to the Army of the Czech Republic, and, of course, we will then enter them. I want to speed up, transparentize and make acquisition processes more effective. Public Procurement Act. When he was processing, the DOD had a lot of comments, they wanted a lot of exceptions. There are exceptions. It can be entered, it can be simplified, it can be accelerated. But here's one more thing I'd like to draw your attention to. Since many acquisition processes require screening of candidates for the acquisition of, for example, techniques or other things, not all applicants meet this. At this point, for example, we had to return two large acquisition processes with the fact that they did not meet the technical parameters. So the process doesn't last long just because it can't be planned, but it also takes time for them to close because no one has won a given contract, and it's competing again, which, of course, is a big challenge for me to really change. Next thing. The year 2017 meant that the Ministry of Defence did not exceed 4.5 billion. That's right. When I was trying to figure out what was in that 4.5 billion. is, after all, you, above all the Committee on Budgets, will certainly get that from us, so there are often common expenses, such as service. There is a common cost to aircraft service and, of course, my questions led to where I asked why we predicted this for 2017 when we know that, for example, both our airbuses will be repaired four times in 2018. So at this point, I want to set up the right planning, which will then respond to the fact that we are able to draw on the budget. At the moment we are not and it is not only my predecessor's fault, it is the fault of many other ministers who have sat on that ministry and who were afraid to launch the acquisition processes, and therefore there are really a lot of unresolved issues. As regards 2017, the percentage of GDP requirement was 1.07. In 2018, by having a budget of 58.9 billion, the estimate is 1.13% on condition that all acquisition processes planned for 2018 will be implemented. I am now standing before Parliament of the Czech Republic in January, before the Chamber of Deputies, and I am telling you that they will not. They won't, because some of them have to be covered, some of them will take a long time, and some of them will have to move to 2019. But that's okay, because I'm able to do something about the budget. Here was the proposal to extend education, for example. This is what I proposed for 2019, when I have already visited a secondary military school where we want to open branches in other regions, for example in the Karlovy Vary Region in 2019. I want to do the same with the University of Defence, which I am going to visit on Friday, where we are studying fields, or soldiers are studying fields that we now consider to be quite irrelevant to the needs of the Army of the Czech Republic. So I want to set up education for our soldiers in a completely different way. Another thing that fell here. And now I will return to the law that we are presenting here, through Mr President. The state budget proposed by the Minister of any Ministry, subsequently approved by the Government of the Czech Republic, is discussed with the Ministry of Finance. We're going to the Chamber of Deputies with that budget. So you, honourable Members, can basically help me to see that, for example, the 2% in this draft budget every year. However, there is one thing I would like to ask you. Now, I can't guarantee that in 2018 they're going to run out of 2%. I told you an estimate of 1.13. It may be a little bit more for 2019, but at this point it is not real because many acquisition processes are not started. And this is not only the fault of Minister Stropnický, I have to defend him a little bit here, it is also the fault of other ministers, whether they were there for various political parties, and I will not comment, for example, on Mr Vondra's statement on the red button. Maybe he didn't even know he existed because he gave it to the deputy. Next thing. I want to say here that with this proposal that has come here, I welcome it, but since I know as Secretary of Defense at the moment on the basis of all the figures, documents, documents, plans, Quacru, acquisition processes, we are unable to fulfill it. So I'm asking you to reject this proposal, but with that, please give me a year and a year, if we know that the acquisition processes will improve, the Ministry of Defence will prepare a draft amendment of the law or a new proposal that will contain this. Otherwise, from a general point of view, it is unnecessary to have in the law what we have signed up for by joining NATO. So at this point, we can also talk about the meaningfulness of having that obligation. As honourable Members, you are responsible for approving the state budget here. I would be very pleased if we would also discuss the very needs, acquisition processes and possible drawbacks from the Ministry of Defence over the years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u63	Thank you, too. I would still like to ask, Madam Secretary, if I should take this as a motion for rejection, because he did not speak in the debate. It was in the rapporteur's report, not in the debate, so I do not have it yet. Okay, not yet. In that case, I have three factual points here. First up is Mr. Černý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't know why I don't get to it right away, because I have to logically respond to what the secretary said. For one thing, it's obvious that she was involved in the government's rejection report, and that means that she could be agreed with, but far from everything. It's a shame that the year he's asking for is a very relative thing. Hell knows what's gonna happen to that year. Maybe the government should count on days, maybe weeks tops, and as far as the next government goes, we'll see. So with that year, I don't know what it's gonna be. I can only say in agreement with the Chair of the Committee Černochová that the previous Minister of Defence had not for a year, but four, that he was a minister who had the best conditions of all the defense ministers, which I remember, and I remember a few of them here, and he also had support across the political spectrum for spending, and we even offered to help him increase defense spending several times, and most importantly, he worked in conditions where continuity began to manifest himself, that is, when the economy was reviving and money was just being. Hand The Lord was opened, but there was no one who could grasp the instrument and use it meaningfully. I have been a frequent critic of the Minister of Defence, and I hope that I will have a more comfortable position in this parliamentary term and that the new Minister is worthy of having to address this institute, i.e. with criticism, only material or partial problems and not generally to the resort. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u65	Thank you, too. I now have here, with the factual remark submitted by Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Stanjura, where it was said: 0,2 % of GDP per year, it is not a problem. Yesterday we negotiate the abolition of a property tax of 12 billion a year, because it's a robot, it's not a problem. Of course, I wouldn't have a problem with this from the point of view of our army's fighting power, either, if I were convinced that the money would be transformed into a fighting power. I really appreciate our field hospitals, I have a personal experience with them. I'm glad we didn't shut down an investment like Těchonín, although it was considered. I appreciate the chemists. I think we should be able to sell all this in NATO. But giving a $10 billion Bianko check a year without really having those acquisitions ready and just spinning the spiral of old ammunition delaboration, which I also know from personal practice in Polička, where I have been visiting in the past, and again acquiring new ammunition, arming our active backups, which are currently supposed to save the army and its numbers - I think there is a really long-term concept missing here. It's not our minister's business, of course, not our secretary's, because that goes back to the past. So in that army, we really need to talk about concept. I think it is possible to put and approve more money there, but only when it makes sense, and not, as Mrs Černochová said here through the President, there are just 5 billion there, and we have not been able to spend it. I'm glad we couldn't spend it if we couldn't make sense of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u67	Thank you. I have three factual points again. I ask Mr Černý again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talk about money all the time. Let me ask you a question. Why do we even want to spend any money to secure our defenses? I guess because we're worried about something, I'm answering my own questions. We're worried someone might be threatening us, not so much that they're threatening us right now, it would be too late to talk about defense now. It's a conceptual thing, we have to think ahead. So we're worried about what might come. Otherwise, there's no point in building an army. And we have to do it in advance, because building an army from one day to the next, as the Secretary of State has just shown us plastic, is just nonsense, that's out of the question. You need to train people, you need to figure out what you really need for these people so they can perform that function. And these are all very, very long-term processes. I don't see time, so I'll keep going. The moment you do it and plan it, you'll find that you'll never have enough budget. You just always run into some barriers. And that's when you start to think about how to do that to convince at least 200 or 100 Members who should raise their hand for the budget, that the military needs to be poured into the resort - so far we've put poor 40 billion in the past years, 42, 43, now it's gotten a little bit higher, so we're going after the vomit around 50 billion really. In doing so, we have heard correctly that some expenditure should not be included in the budget at all, i.e. the actual amount that can be used for defence is even smaller. If I put it this way, I'll get in a situation where I have to find a reason to ask this House of Honor to give me that kind of money. We are thinking in the future that it should be dramatically more, a lot more than 100 billion, and that deserves an answer to the question of who is actually putting us at risk. [[Attention at Time]] So in the next de facto, I'll tell you why we're de facto arming so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u69	I am now here with the de facto Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to respond to Mr Mašek's colleague through you. If he doesn't care that he's left almost $5 billion in the budget last year, then why are we approving the budget here? By the way, it wasn't the first time there was a sum like this. As I said before, in 2014, it was a little over 4 billion, in 2015, about 2.5 billion just because Gripens outside the cycle, where they should normally subscribe, in 2016, it was also over 4 billion and in 2017 4.5 billion. Does it seem normal to you, colleagues, that we're making a budget for ourselves? Not to mention that when the 2018 budget was approved, I pointed out, together with my colleagues, that on the contrary, you were talking about sending more soldiers on missions, but your funds are lower than in previous years. I drew attention to this in the Defence Committee, so that, with the amendments, someone else changes the proposal, that you cannot claim that you want to send more soldiers anywhere, and at the same time give less money. So I would really ask a question through Vice-President Mašek, what are you doing with a government statement in which you have 2% when you question them in the second breath? Indeed, the sentence of 2% in the programming statement is, and yesterday, even at the summit, your boss, Prime Minister Babiš, mentioned it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u71	Thank you. Mr Černý, with a point of fact, is once again registered. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I ended up with why we should actually give tens, maybe even hundreds, or more than hundreds, to secure defense. Of course, because we're being threatened. But, of course, it's more complicated with the threat. That would be too easy, if we said yes, there is a threat, there is a King Kazisvět on our borders, and that is why we must prepare for defense. It's not King kazisvět, so let's start looking for reasons. Gentlemen of the previous speakers have mentioned this abundantly, so I'm certainly not going to deviate from the factual point of view now, if I try to think a little bit about the threats. Who is the biggest threat to the Czech Republic that we need potentially over 100 billion a year to defend? No matter how I think about it, I just don't see it between the surrounding countries, whether the European Union or just beyond the borders. I know there is a potential threat to Russia. In this context, allow me one more fact. We're not just preparing for a classic war. Fellow pirát have pointed out here several times very correctly that it is not just about tanks and airplanes. After all, the hybrid war has been talked about for years, and when I say it for years, I mean it deadly, because the first mention of the hybrid war comes from sometime in the sixth century. We didn't invent that here in Europe, but our Chinese predecessors were already talking about the hybrid war in the sixth century, and they knew very well by then what they were talking about. Such a hybrid war, that's quite an interesting thing to say. We can't do without her in today's security strategy, but next time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u73	Thank you, too. I now have with Mr Mašek in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been invited by Mrs Černochová through Mr President. The question was, what's the deal with the 2%? That is what Mr Hájek and many others have been talking about. Yes, at 2 per cent by 2024, but it doesn't mean the blank check every year 0.2 per cent. It's about when the acquisitions are ready, so let's make them happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u75	Thank you. Unfortunately, I now have Minister Šlechtová signed up with the facts. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u76	Mr President, honourable Chamber of Deputies, I must respond to Mr Černý's words. I do not know how much longer it will take to make use of the factual remarks by means of the President, so that we can basically hear the conclusion. I've made it clear here that I'm working on getting the acquisition processes ready. I've been there five weeks. Since nothing has been signed for many years, and here we have heard that no one happens to be like Mrs. Parkanová, I obviously have the courage. I'm just gonna sign it because those troops in the formations just need it. I would not like you, Mr President, to question why we want to equip the Army of the Czech Republic. Our soldiers are here to protect our country. And you all want it through all the political groups in this Chamber of Deputies. And you're questioning why we're being threatened. You know, it doesn't bother you that we have Russian radars 15 years old, of which 15 years after life, or not 15 years old, they've been here maybe a hundred years. Fifteen years after the lifetime, three years after the lifetime. I do. That's why we're dealing with buying these new radars from-- I'm not gonna say what sides. Next thing you know, cannons. We have a lot of Russian guns. We've got them hidden. And we want to correct them when we have requirements for the 2 percent to buy new guns, because our soldiers can only shoot Russian guns, but maybe they can't shoot NATO guns? I want to buy more NATO guns, and I don't want to fix any more Russian guns. But only because we have a lot of ammo? That's how it's going to be done. We can do it. The army can do it. So please let us not question why we have the Army of the Czech Republic at all. Because that is what you are going to do through the President. And I would just perhaps recommend, as a Member of this House, if there's any way of not using those factual remarks and hearing the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u77	Mr Černý, then Mrs Černochová, is once again on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u78	I'm sorry, colleagues, I still haven't gotten to what I wanted to tell you, because I have a factual point to respond to what the Minister said. Madam Secretary, if you understand my speech as an expression of some boundless pacifism, I assure you that is not the case. I am in favour of every sovereign state - I cannot imagine how the Czech Republic could carry out its basic duties under the Constitution without guaranteeing its defence. And I am very concerned, Madam Secretary, that the Czech army is unable to do so in many cases. In your demission statement, which means we're already talking about a dead document, it's mentioned that, for example, an army with the police will protect our borders. I would love it if I could, but I can't, Madam Secretary. Even if you use the Castle Guard and all police officers, you won't be able to secure this task in your programming statement. In short, you cry well, but on the wrong grave, Madam Secretary. Last term, I was not the Minister of Defence responsible for the fact that the Czech Republic is a sovereign state with everything. There is no way to talk about sovereignty without the ability to secure defense. Speaking of sovereignty, I just want to say that within the environment in which we are moving, we understand, of course, how important the anti-air defense and the ability to provide at least our airspace are, and we are very pleased to acknowledge that we are able to do at least these tasks within the framework of the NATINAD project. So the fact that we finally made a deal with the Slovák after ten years - I'll tell you later. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u79	Now I have a de facto Mrs Černochová with me, and then we could get to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I had to respond to Mr Mašek's colleague through you because I understand that he is a paramedic, a doctor, is not an economist. But if you really want to guarantee funds in any way, then the budget, my colleague through the Vice-President, is really in it. You can't say here that surprises you and that you're afraid of increasing by 0.2 percent. By the way, the difference between my proposal and what you have in your programming statement is two years. And two years, de facto, with the economic prediction that's now, it could be completely different, so it's really not some sort of over-the-counter number, we've been very responsible for it, so it's not a day-to-day jump, but it's not another way to do it. By the way, for Mr Stropnickýý's 2014 ministry, we were at 0.95% of GDP, in 2015 at 1.04 percent of GDP, in 2016 at 0.97% of GDP, 2017, there we still did not approve the final account. I suppose we'll have it on the committee sometime after March, and I think we'll actually get there below 1% again. So they're the two figures. We talked about it on the last committee that there are two statistics that are going on and they're kind of unfair, because one of them is being distorted, but that's not what I want to talk about. I just wanted to explain to Mr Mašek that there really cannot be a budget increase without funds in the budget. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u81	I have now received a factual statement from Mr králíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u82	Hello. Mr President, fellow Members, I would just like to respond briefly to President Černochová, and it is true that we do not agree mainly in time. I believe that approving this amendment is premature. Let the army come up with concrete projects of armament, re-arming, a specific detailed timetable, when and how it wants to buy, let it project the transfer of threats to cyberspace, because, as the Minister has mentioned through Mr President, we may have several dozen works or hundreds of techniques that we do not use, but we need it, because these threats are now moving into cyberspace and are attacking elsewhere. So if the military has concrete projects in this area too, I will be happy to support it, but at the moment I believe that this is indeed a Bianko check approval, and premature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u83	I, too, thank you, and now Mr Černý has come forward again. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I apologize, of course, to all my colleagues, who I am entering into their intentions in this way, but I assure you that the moment you say that no one is registered with the facts, I will withdraw it immediately. So I wanted to keep doing what I started. I hope that I have convinced the present that we are not pacifists and we certainly do not want to damage the defence of the Czech Republic, but we still wonder who the threat is, how to define it, so that we can come to the conclusion that we can agree, with a calm conscience, to spend such enormous resources in defence. The threat is quite fictional today. We're in a situation where we're almost all afraid of something. Some are worried about work, some are worried about health, we're worried about cyber attacks, raw materials, energy, and I don't know what kind of crisis that can come, there won't be water, or the devil knows what won't be, and of course we're slowly preparing for the fact that we're worried about life in terms of the fears that took over us: yes, there can be a war. There may be a war, and we have to be afraid, because that war, it's really a terrible thing, it doesn't often choose, you don't just run away from it. And that's what we need to prepare for. What, then, is the real threat of such a war escapade to the Czech Republic? That's what's going on here. I had to dig a little deeper into the numbers to answer that question, but I can't make it in two seconds. So, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u85	Time, Mr. Ambassador! And now I have a report from the hall with Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u86	Thank you for the floor. It seems to me that sometimes in the debate it sounds as if there are fools working in the military who don't really know what they need, who don't know what to buy, who don't know that there is a cyber threat, etc. Be aware that the army knows very well what it needs. You think choppers just made up the idea that they made up radars just because they didn't know cyber threats were happening, that they weren't planning shopping? It is not a question of the army, it is a question of the management of the resort, the ability to compete and realize purchases. The way you express yourself here merely shows that you have not met the military department, you do not know that the military has a certain plan, that it is implementing it and that it is more a question of political representation, how it is able to meet this. And another thing. We need to realise that we are part of NATO, that this is our security and that we are fulfilling alliance commitments. If we do not do what we have committed ourselves to, we are defrauding ourselves. And I reject the communist demagogy that we will have some transition from NATO anywhere. It must be realised that we will either be part of NATO as a solid ally in our pro-Western direction, or we will only be one of Russia's other colonies. There's no third way. That's what we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u87	Thank you. And now, Mr Černý, Mr. Cerný, has come forward with the facts again. Please get to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u88	Thank you. I am very sorry that I cannot continue where I left off because, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I have to respond to the previous speaker. So let me say that we have never doubted for a second that those who invent acquisitions, that is, the soldiers, that they might not know what they needed and what would be useful to them. I even remember a very interesting escapade around buying time when soldiers headed by the Chief of Staff told us what they needed, and we still bought something else. And I could give more examples like that. Those tanks aren't exactly easy either. It is good to go to Jičín or ask people who really come into contact with it every day, and they will also explain to you what they are in for example. the advantage of tanks in battles that take place in this century, i.e. in recent years, and what is the huge difference when you drive another means of transport, or when you drive a heavily armored tank, where the ballistic protection of an individual is ensured almost 100% against infantry weapons. In short, these are the things that lead me to have no doubt about the soldiers and their ability to choose the right technique. But I must quite and probably effectively argue that we can doubt those who ultimately decide what they actually buy, under what conditions, from whom etc. So at this point, unfortunately, I have to say again that I'm not going to be able to introduce you to what is actually going on with the threat, and I have to wait for another factual one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u89	I thank you and now I have Mr Řehounek's written in writing. In the meantime, I'll read you an apology. Mr Poul apologizes, from 15.00 to the end of the negotiations for working reasons. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to report, but please let us really move forward. I assume that, apart from Mr Černý, through Mr President, we have all noticed that there is a budget that reflects the needs of the military, that is, the budget for 2018, 2019 and 2020 is significantly progressive. President Černochová, through Mr President, quoted here the Government's programming statement that there is a commitment to really getting to the 2%. I would follow up on my colleague Králíček here, who said let's really find the projects first. We know they're prepping helicopters, VVP radars. Let's just move on, please, and let's really not do all this stuff here. In the past period, the then Minister of Finance, the current Prime Minister, said: come with concrete projects, the government will allocate funds to them, and we will really get to the 2% by 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u91	Thank you, too, and we will now move forward in the debate. With priority rights, Mr Hájek, the rapporteur, has again reported to me. I'll ask if it takes time. It does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u92	Colleagues and colleagues, I do not want to prolong this, in any case I have to respond a little bit to today's debate. I want to take advantage of what the secretary said here that it really is necessary to focus on things, not on funding at this time, but to look at how to make the acquisition process more effective. That means, really, at this point in time, the Department of Defense has money and is unable to draw it. I want to take advantage of what the Vice-President of the House of Fiala said. Let's not look back, we can all attack each other here if it was and it wasn't. The situation is that we want to defend our Czech Republic, we want to make it more effective, the medium-term outlook says that the trend is really rising. The government in demise has given its commitment, it wants to give 2% of GDP by 2024. So let us really talk about how to use these resources effectively. Anyway, I would like to say here on the microphone, so I would like to formally propose that this proposal be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u93	Okay, I'll record the proposal. And now, therefore, a written application from Mr Černý is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u94	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am in a completely different position here now. A debate has been launched after two hours, so we can dive a little deeper into the problem. Just to be sure, because I assume that if my performance was shattered into a few partial fragments, it would probably be appropriate for me to repeat all this in a comprehensive form, so now I'm going to try to do a very brief recapitulation, but in passwords and complex. I'm based on one fundamental thesis. The thesis is, and I'll repeat it to you later in the end: peace must be fought, war will come alone. That's a password I didn't invent, of course, that's no news, but try repeating it a few times. Peace must be fought, war itself will come. So it's just quite real in the modern history of society - and when I talk about modern history, I move somewhere from Rome - that's just how it works. Threats that potentially threaten us, even in the submission report of the authors of this proposal, it is said that this is for example. Russia. The Stockholm Institute for Strategic Studies publishes quite regularly figures on who is in charge of defensive spending. According to this honorable institute, generally in the world and in the Allied Alliance, Russian Federation spending is about 70 billion. U.S. dollars a year. This, by the way, also according to this institute, accounts for only 27 percent of the expenses of the European Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance, i.e. without the United States and Canada. When I say "no" to the United States, I do it when I talk about the Alliance, a very fatal simplification. The Alliance - the whole North Atlantic Alliance - is of two thirds and perhaps even more percent, a larger proportion made up of the United States and then the rest of the world. [[11.10 hours]] Thanks to the fact that the United States has spent several times as much as our GDP in defence and military spending over the long term, it has gradually hit a situation where the technological supremacy of the US military towards other member countries of the North Atlantic Alliance is so great that the funds are often incompatible and sometimes put an American army with the armies of other Member States into one joint operation. Notice that almost every military operation of the Alliance is commanded by an American officer, except for very honorable exceptions. This is due to the fact that communication at everyone's level is not so simple. And it gives us a huge problem to achieve such a state of affairs as to be at least with those elite units at a level that will allow communication. You have noticed that President Donald Trump has increased US defense spending by roughly $25 billion in 2018, one time, and is expected to be around $639 billion in 2018. These are numbers from a few weeks ago. The $639 billion for the United States plus European Member States' military spending adds up to a sum that is quite certainly already exceeding $1 trillion. I repeat: Russian defense spending is in the order of $70 billion. China is somewhere else today, but it is so far away, and it has so different interests that we have not yet identified the main opponent and the enemy, so there is probably no immediate danger. But we have a few more numbers here. The countries of the North Atlantic Alliance, and that is no excuse for our Minister of Defence, or because we have not tried any harder, which are economically incomparably better than we are, e.g. Luxembourg or Belgium, they publish roughly as much as we do, some even less. It is therefore no sign that we must, necessarily, increase defense spending to please someone in Brussels or Washington. We are in a situation today where, on the contrary, we can easily afford to think about how much our army really is able to absorb. How much we can pour to make sense of it. The Minister here has quite rightly indicated how complex acquisition processes are, how easy it is to get into huge slides when not working properly at the Ministry, but at the same time also told us, and after all it follows for example. from the government's programming statement on what our goals are. We want the Army of the Czech Republic to have or to get closer, at least in the programme statement I read the number, to 30,000 men. That means we have a few more people to pick up. Ms Černochová has done an extremely useful job in the last parliamentary term when she has taken care of and really, with her tenacity and diligence, forced the Defence Committee and subsequently the Minister and the General Staff to pay much more attention to active advances than in the past. As a result, the situation has changed dramatically. Dramatically against what preceded her efforts, but still insufficient. We all know that. If we're talking about 5,000 people who should be in active backups, there's no way it's the number that could substitute that fatal lack of people to secure our defenses. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now some data that really speaks about defending our country. We need more than 100,000 people to protect the territory of the Czech Republic, as the Constitution provides for us after all. The real data is about 150,000 men we need. Of course, no one has such a large army, the state of our dimension cannot have 150,000 people in arms, but it should have about 100 to 150,000 people prepared, who, if necessary, will be able to perform the tasks related to the defence of the Republic. I am referring to the fact that there has been no system in the Czech Republic for several years that would allow such a thing. Thanks to the fact that we cancelled the military basic service quite recklessly and quickly years ago, despite all the reservations we had about it, we were deprived of the opportunity to call people who have at least elementary knowledge of what the military is, if you want discipline and such things are. I just can't do it without it. We were in such a great situation that when we prepared a law four years ago that could do something in this area, Minister Stropnickýý did not have the courage to shrink the demands of the law to at least the lowest minimum, that we would like to have a record of who is capable of any military service, and we do not even know that today. We only know that the Czech Republic has about 800,000 people available, not only men but also women that it could theoretically use, if it had at least a minimum knowledge of what kind of people it is, and if at least if it knew which of them, for example, have some health or qualification restrictions and are used for that or that activity in the military. I would like to remind you that of those people who have undergone military training in some way, only a small handful is available today, because most of them are getting into a situation of age that they are useless. They're too old, they'd be physically short-stretched. And the young - the best fighter, of course, is a man between the ages of 20 and 30 - are people who are useful to the needs of the army universally, so these people have absolutely no idea what the defense of the country is and what it would mean. Let me mention one more aspect, and this is the one - I will now allow myself to make this shortcut because I would also like to get to the vote, but I have to say that. The 2% have one more nut, quite cocooned. I understand the status of Američan, they can afford a lot of things, and when Donald Trump came up with America's first, fine, and he wouldn't consider the others, and that means we all have to increase the cost of arms, all of us. Except for the United States, no one can reach the required parameters. Great Britain is coming far away, then there are, let's just say, from a budget point of view, maybe Řek, but they have a little bit of a different problem, so it's probably not the right example either. [[11.20 hours]] In short, when Donal Trump came up with the idea that he wouldn't finance us anymore and that we had to take care of ourselves, he challenged us all to the two percent, and we took it flat-rate, just as we used to - yes, 2 percent. We do not acknowledge at all that the armies of individual member states of the Alliance are somewhat different, that they have other requirements, other needs, and while some armies, for example, are building a coastal warship, applicable now, let's say, in the fight against refugees smugglers in the Mediterranean Sea, we do not have such a duty fortunately. Maybe we'll get a submarine sometime, too, but in the meantime, maybe we can build a Danube-Odra-Labe channel, and that's where it could go. We don't need it yet. So why should we spend the same 2% on arms as states that, in addition to the classic all-Soldier army, need to build, for example, the Navy? Why aren't we affected by 1,75 percent? That would not be a great relief, because economists would certainly be able to instantly quantify the comparative advantages of those who have the sea to produce their gross domestic product, and therefore even for higher defense spending. We know all that. But I want to ask. What we're going to do with 30,000 men and more than 110, at a time when it should be realized, I dare say it's going to be like 130, maybe 150 billion in ten years. What are we gonna do about it for 30,000 men? That's total nonsense. Today's army, in the state it is in, with its numbers at its disposal, has a long-term rate of between 40 billion and 50 billion. And all of a sudden, we want to increase it by almost 200 percent, but the number of people who will take care of the technique, who will train with it, who will serve it, will increase by a few people. Just an army that should spend a hundred and more billion would necessarily need at least 40, but probably more than 40,000 men in arms. And now the last thing I want to say to you. If we go to 2 per cent, and when it really becomes the rule in most member states of the North Atlantic Alliance, it will immediately mean an increase in military spending in Europe by at least 300, but probably by $350 billion. German Secretary of Defense and other ministers who realize what it would be doing in these countries, which have a somewhat larger budget than we do, they just got scared when they calculated it, to the point that they even heard from each other. That's quite a rare phenomenon for defense ministers. I have never experienced anything like this since the Czech ministers before Mrs Šlechtová, so I do not expect the Defence Ministers to rebel at any time at the Council meeting. But only to illustrate the situation. Dear Members, the Defence Ministers usually implement what is agreed by the Alliance's top bodies, which are made up of presidents and premieres. Not the defense ministers, they usually sit there, but other people have a decisive say. And that is why it is essential to realize that if we go to this dangerous game and cause another huge round of high-level weapons - what else do you want to call it when you want to double military spending at a time when it is relatively quiet? I say relatively, I am aware of the risks and dangers that are elsewhere in the world, but we are talking about jumping, multiple increases in defense spending. And in such an atmosphere, we get to the paradox that we'll have so many people in arms, we'll have so advanced technology, so perfect defense, so perfect an army that in a way we'll be dangerous to ourselves. And it's gonna cycle again. Yes, there are laws that say that if we cross a certain node point of measure, we will reach a state that we will no longer control what happens next. And that's what's going on here. It can happen to us very well, and now, of course, this is not just about the Czech Republic, but also about Europe and therefore about Western civilization, that we will be a potential danger to ourselves. And I'm going back to the thesis I started with. I say that peace must be fought, war itself will come. And if there was a possibility that in 2010 the presidents of the United States and Russia signed here in Prague, a little bit from us, something like an agreement that was supposed to reboot mutual relations, then I'm asking you how much time has passed since 2010. Even in the bill's proposal, we are talking about 2024, i.e. almost the same period we are still separated from the deadlin, when we should be able to achieve such armament expenses that we will be dangerous to ourselves. And where do you know that by then, by chance, the relationship between Russia and the United States cannot really reboot again, say, first and foremost, but between the other major security players on the political stage? I'm an optimist, and I believe in the second option. But I am not saying that I will not always vote in favour of strengthening defense spending, because these are pathetic today, and I will not very vehemently strive to have our soldiers equipped with the perfect ballistic protection of the individual, to ride in a technique that will withstand the explosion of the middle caliber, so that they will simply be prepared for the fact that when they are deployed somewhere, they will not actually go to the slaughter. That's what's going on here. And I will always prefer the interests of this country and the defence of the territory of our territory to, for example, send people to Afghanistan or other similar missions, whose meaningfulness even those who have launched this escapade doubt today. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for keeping you a little more than I usually do. Thank you for your attention. Of course, I subscribe to what the rapporteur said. We will support his proposal, that is, to reject this law, because it does not solve the fundamental problems yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u95	Thank you, too. At this point, I have no written applications, nor do I register anyone to report to me from the O.R., so I would end the general debate and proceed to the final words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u96	Please do not close the general debate, Mr Vice-President. When I listened carefully to all my previous speakers here, I feel that in the right-wing part of our spectrum, to which I do not count the Pirates, it is the will to somehow conceptually address the defence of our country. YES, although it has in its programming statement, and let me quote: Defence Policy of the Army of the Czech Republic - we will be active in NATO, the European Union, the UN and other organizations in accordance with the interests of the Czech Republic. We will promote equal cooperation between states and involvement in efforts to face international terrorism and cyberterrorism for the protection of citizens of the Czech Republic. We will actively contribute to the foreign operations of NATO, the European Union or the United Nations, which will comply with international law and defined security and defence interests of the Czech Republic. NATO membership is crucial to ensuring our country's defence and has no alternative. But security guarantees of collective defence are not a matter of course. We want to be reliable partners to our allies, so we will trustfully create our own defense capabilities and actively contribute to collective alliance defence. - Please pay attention. - We will gradually increase our defence budget in order to achieve 2% of GDP in 2024, as our alliance commitment sounds. [[11.30 hours]] I could continue, colleagues and colleagues. Does it really seem normal to you, my lord, that with one breath you promise something here, and through the other breath, some of you perform here and only make excuses? I would like to respond, for example, to my colleague Králíček, who is with me on the Defence Committee and on a lot of things I agree with him, but through the Vice-President, my colleague, you may not know that the concepts you spoke about, the projects, they are here long ago. He was part of Bartošek's colleague. It's called a KVAČR, my colleague. I'm sure you've heard that word before. For those of you who have not heard it, it is the Concept of the Construction of the Army of the Czech Republic. We also have a White Book on Defense, which our Defense Minister, Mr. Alexandr Vondra, was doing, by the way, and I am sorry that no one from the ministers has been found since his departure to update this white book in any way, who would put in information that could happen in time, even given the variability of the security environment that could be modified there. I think that maybe it's some kind of task that I hope will get the new Secretary of Defense. So the strategic documents are, and are, the strategic documents of your Minister of Defence, even the present Secretary of Defense, Šlechtová, in our Sunday debate, defending Minister Stropnický, said that if the Minister left something good there, those are the strategic documents. I do not agree with her very much in this regard, because those strategic documents have an earlier date than the arrival of Secretary of Defense Stropnický, on the other hand, it does not matter, we will not argue about this. Anyway, the documents, the projects, the plans are there, so please don't make excuses for not knowing what the funds could be spent on. After all, we were long ago, and I think that with most of you as the leader of the ODS candidate in Prague I was on the topic of defence in various media, so most of us agreed that we want the all-Soldier army, that we want the Czech Republic to have soldiers who have different skills, from those mentioned medical through chemists to tankists, to pilots, to really different experts who even copy, yes, those new threats can solve them, which are related to the 21st century, and they are cyber security. On the other hand, even in cyberspace, my colleague Pavel Žáček mentioned it here that if any conflict, any attack will start in cyberspace, so colleagues and colleagues, no matter what you do, so if you have seen at least ten minutes of Star Wars, then you know that even the attacks in cyberspace require a reaction in real space. And real-space reactions can be done in two, three ways: either from the air, from the ground or from the water, from the ground. So no matter what happens, you will always need soldiers dressed, soldiers equipped with technology, a technique that corresponds to the 21st century, soldiers whose shoes will not be spread, soldiers who will not provide ballistic protection for their own resources when we send them on missions, as my colleague Saša Černý has mentioned. I think, and I'm glad that there may be a consensus on this, that maybe, and now I don't want to launch another round of long debates here, but none of you here said that in the future would try to be part of the so-called. European armies, so that the Czech Republic is also the country that wants to be active in the constitution of the European army in some way. I don't see Mr. former Prime Minister Sobotka here... I see. Unfortunately, before he ended up Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, he sent this signal to Europe that the Czech Republic was ready to participate in the European army. Dear colleagues, can you count how much this would cost us? Not to mention I consider it a complete utopia. Here we see how these states are unable to agree on the issues and problems associated with the migration crises that are associated with some hotspots, some regime at the external borders, let alone to fight together under one European Union banner. So I hope that, at least in this respect, this Chamber of Deputies will agree that this would not be the way to go in the right direction. And as has also been said here, there is no alternative at this time but to be part of NATO's collective defense. And those projects, the concepts are really here, they're approved by your minister, so don't make excuses for not touching. I also understand that, and the Minister should have the right to get to know these projects, to have some opinion on them, on the other hand, let us not really change and let us not confuse the role of soldiers and the role of politicians. It's up to us politicians to secure the funds, which I've been trying to do in front of you for three hours, and it's up to those soldiers to determine how and for what they need the funds for, what they're going to use the funds for, what they're going to spend on. As I say, no one here has questioned our army's omnipotence, either, so I think it is nonsense to rely on the fact that, in the future, the funds would have flowed less into the budget. The opposite is true. And if we're talking about these threats here, of course, all these conflicts are really happening in the face of any of the air space, but they're happening so that the actors are physically there, and the space isn't that virtual... sorry... [[coughs]] ...as we might have imagined. [[Let's get a drink.]] I'm coming to a conclusion. Since I really feel that there is a certain hope in this Chamber of Deputies that colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies mean the words of their Prime Minister and the words of both ministers seriously, I think that it would be fair if you did not vote today and withdraw the motion to reject this proposal if you would proceed with this standard for the next reading, I can easily adjust the years that I propose there, according to your programming statement for 2024, as I have quoted here. Then it would be your proposal, your amendment, and we could, as the Czech Republic, be one step further. [[11.40 hours]] I don't want to, and the Secretary of State said that she's asking for some time to do this under some kind of pressure, under some kind of... even as I like to say, it's not time to waste in the military, because we really don't have much time for this modernization anymore. We're in danger of blackout at MADRs, respectively. With the radar, we're in danger of blacking out our tech, either the ground or the air. By the way, in 2012, if I'm not mistaken, Madam Secretary, they're supposed to go to both airbus repair. I wonder what your government will fly with. Maybe you'll still be happy that we have time, and maybe this would be worth a little more of your attention as a government, because when I honestly read the acquisition schedule, there was a big red light flashing at me, because we're in 2018. So my colleagues and colleagues, given everything that has been said here, I suggest - it's a habit that it's proposed to shorten the deadline here, we even had it in the original proposal as the 90th that you vetoed, which I understand. On the contrary, I propose, as the appellant, to extend the time limit for discussion so that all that you have said here can be heard, that you consider it important that it should be shown that the Minister or someone who will manage the resort, so that they have sufficient time to familiarize themselves with the projects and, so to speak, acclimatise and maybe in some way ask former Minister Stropnický what some of the poet's plans were to say. For this reason, I propose an extension of the deadline to 120 days. It's been four months, with the fact that if the secretary or her successor couldn't even make it, and he would come here at some point after those four months asking for an extension of that deadline, then, of course, that's possible in the second reading. It's no problem. But we, as the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, will still have that reminder before us, still the memento of the fact that these things are important to us, that we will not forget them. And in my own way, I would say, with a very helpful proposal, I also give space within the structures of the North Atlantic Alliance to say yes, the Czech Republic has a bill in the Chamber of Deputies to treat this. So I think that if my proposal goes through, we'd be able to do what you want to do, that we have a year to discuss it, get to know the concept, change the Quačra, change the strategic documents if that happens, but that it doesn't fall under the table completely and we'll talk about it again in some time frame. Thank you for your attention, and I will hope that indeed my helpful proposal, which I think never happened to the Chamber of Deputies, would such a generous draftsman here say and ask you to support his proposal, so I will ask for your support and hope that what you said before the elections will also be said during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u97	I thank the appellant for her final word, because I have already concluded the debate. And now I ask for the final word of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u98	Mr President, colleagues, Mr Faltýnek has moved his glasses three times to avoid talking, but I am still the rapporteur and we have devoted almost three hours, so I will take a few more words to conclude to respond to the rich debate that I am sure was here. First of all, I'm sorry. I may have misjudged myself in the custody of the European Union - NATO. I'm sure I wanted to talk about NATO. Then there was the question of what my relationship with women was. Of course, I'm naturally shy and shy, it's also from the title that I've worked for decades in a collective where there was a woman for a thousand miners, so of course you'll understand. There's another thing that came out of this discussion for me. Interesting subjects. A colleague of Farský, who I disagree with in a number of matters, mentioned, for example, the issue of military schools. I'm living proof of that. If it wasn't for military schools, I wouldn't have graduated. I was from a single mom's family, three kids, and the only way I could graduate was by military school. So I'm sure I welcome this idea. It's not like a recipe for all of the socially weak families to go to military schools. But it is a subject that, of course, can help education. As far as the specifics are concerned, I will recapitulate once more. This means that today we are in a situation where, first, the previous government has set a certain coalition commitment here that it will increase defense spending to 1.4 percent of GDP by 2020. Yes, it is true that, in the medium term, we do not yet do so. But in terms of the amounts that are otherwise in the budget, this year, I will repeat, 59 billion, next year 66 billion, in 2020 77 billion. And just to imagine, if we wanted to talk about 2% of GDP, that's 126 billion. So I think, and I will continue to conclude with the Minister's words, which said, "Give me a year of time, first I have to make it so that we can actually draw these resources effectively. For me, it is very important that we are at the beginning of this parliamentary term, and colleagues from the Defence Committee will confirm that we have been discussing the Defence and Security Report of the Czech Republic in 2016. Of course, it was said that it was not entirely optimal. On the other hand, it was stated that the protection and security of the Czech Republic was guaranteed. This means, despite the fact that we do not, or the army does not receive as much money as we all wish, so what is essential for our citizens is being fulfilled, or our army is capable, of course, in cooperation with NATO, to secure the defence of our republic. And that's important to me. So, to conclude again, I have suggested here that we reject this amendment at first reading. It's not that we don't want to deal with military spending, I'm sure we want to deal with it. But I will follow the Minister's words once more - let us return to this question next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-001-004.u99	Thank you for the final words and we will now move on to the vote on the proposals. There's been a motion to dismiss, so I'm gonna call you into the O.R. one more time, and we're gonna check out because there's been movement. For the arrivals, I will repeat that we will vote on the rejection of the proposed proposal. I'll wait for the number of entries to settle. Initiating vote to dismiss the motion. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? They got held up? Thank you. In the vote number 48, 159 Members were present, in favour of 110, against 39. The proposal was adopted, so we rejected the proposal and this concludes the discussion. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. [[11.50 hours]] Let's open another point that's
