ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u929	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 2nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And allow me, above all, to welcome the present Deputy High Representative of Ambassador Shumaher, the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, other guests, representatives of international organisations and, of course, MPs. In preparation for this session, we also had a meeting of the Colleges of Chairmans, and just before this appointment and meeting with representatives of parliamentary parties. We agreed on the following: 1. Selection of members of the working bodies of the House of Representatives 2. Preparation for the upcoming Madrid Conference, 3. Prejdlgo Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents, 4. MPs' questions. Before these meetings of the Colleges we had, we also received a letter from Ambassador Vestendorf, which highlights the priority issues that this House of Representatives needs to address. On behalf of all representatives of all parliamentary parties, I would like to thank Ambassador Vestendorf for his letter and, of course, hoping that by our productive work, these issues that are indeed priority and resolved. The agenda also noted the urgent needs to be addressed and the most pressing issues to be addressed. So, the draft agenda. I shall put this excessive agenda before the Members of Parliament for adoption and invite the MPs to declare by raising their hands who is on the proposed agenda. Do you mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? So the agenda was adopted unanimously. And right at the beginning to say that 37 MPs were present, out of 42, four MPs announced their justified absence, due to earlier planned obligations, or travel, and I expect one or two MPs to join in the course of the meeting. 2 We move on to 1. Agenda point: I remind Members that, according to the Interim Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of Representatives has a total of seven commissions. These commissions are the following Commission on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, the Commission on International Foreign Affairs, the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, the Commission on Finance and Budget Affairs, the Commission on Human Rights, Refugee Immigration and Asylum, the Commission on Transport and Communications, and finally the Commission on Administrative Affairs. I am also obliged to note that documents for the Madrid Conference were also sent to the materials for today's session, and the initiative of Parliamentarian Tokić was also sent to the proposal for a bill on the Council of Ministers. I am informed that not all MPs have received complete material. There's probably a technical problem in distribution somewhere. We'll establish what's at stake. Mostly the bill's proposal and the initiative that has come, it is addressed to the MPs. Therefore, out of these seven listed commissions, according to the Interim Rules, each commission is foreseen to have a maximum of 10 members and a third of each commission's members from the space of Republika Srpska's entities. Respecting these elements of the business, respecting the fact that so far the commission has had nine members, all commissions respecting both the debate and the requirements of the debate, which today was held at a meeting of representatives of parliamentary parties, we agreed that the two commissions have 10 members, and the other nine members. According to this agreed principle, we also agreed on candidates for commissions and proposals for the composition of all committees. I will now begin reading the Commission's proposal one by one and, of course, adopting the composition of one commission at a time. First Commission, Commission on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. It was agreed that this commission numbers 9 members, nine members, so all parties present today at a meeting of parliamentary parties have proposed their candidates and has agreed on a proposal for the composition of the Commission as follows: Miodrag Deretić, Milenka Bošnjak, Mirko Banjac, Ana Havel, Jadranko Prlić, Bogić Bogičević, Sejfudin Tokić, Alma Čolo and Rasim Kadić. We have technical problems. First of all, I put the Commission's proposal on constitutional and legal matters under discussion and ask if any of the MPs, possibly, have any new additional proposals or suggestions? As far as I can see, no one is answering and I am putting the Commission's proposal in full, as I read it, to the vote. Please, who is it that the Commission on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is in line to raise a hand? 35 for. Do you mind? Abstained? I therefore find that the composition of the Commission has been unanimously adopted by 35 votes in favour. 3 The next Commission is the Commission on international external issues. It was Usaglašen, therefore, that the commission numbers 10 members, which is in line with the Rules of Procedure and the parties have proposed their candidates. The Commission's proposal on international external issues would be in the following composition: Tomić Neven, Lozančić Ivo, Divković Ivo, Branko Dokić, Dragan Mirković, Desanka Rađević, Adnan Jahić, Ibrahim Spahić, Safet Oručević and Zlatko Lagumdžija. So I am opening a debate on the Commission's proposed composition on international external issues. Is there, possibly, some passer-by proposal, supplement or suggestion about this commission? Mr. Špirić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u930	Gentlemen of the chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, I think this House, or the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, deserves much more attention and much more thorough preparation. I think that, what they're ordering for an 11 o'clock arrangement for the Assembly to begin at 12 is too little time to be seriously worked out. This looks like something bigger local community, something stronger media escorted. I believe that during the meeting of the Assembly, you do not share the material that we as MPs had to get before we read it. Please also print them in languages as agreed. So to the MPs from Republika Srpska to be a Cyrillic letter. Please as well, therefore, to be serious so that we can really work things out and I think that the composition of the Commission we had to get in writing, even partyly to simply, regardless of what this is all about, open one democratic debate. So I give criticism in the way of preparation, in the way of writing and distribution of materials, and I don't think this should be repeated in the future and I demand that the materials that are not printed as they are in the Rules of Procedure be stopped and that this has been a practice so far. Otherwise we're going to go into one obstruction for, perhaps, at first sight of irrelevant reasons, and I think they're very important. Thank you very much. Thank you. I respect these suggestions and these remarks, and I think that, not by objectifying all the issues that lead to this, I think that the solution to the establishment of adequate professional services of the Secretariat of Parliament and all those issues that are needed to be resolved and contained in Ambassador Vestendorf's letter is that this Parliament, indeed, will obtain conditions for quality work and timely preparation. Since no one has been reported in terms of the composition of this amendment committee. I am putting the composition of the Commission to vote and I am calling on the Members to state by raising their hands who is in favour of the proposed composition? Do you mind? Abstained? 4 I therefore find that the Commission's proposed composition on international external issues adopted unanimously. So, again, I was warned by my colleagues that a number is repeated somewhere, a few MPs do not vote. I ask the messengers to plead against, v or abstention, for it is both the right and the obligation, therefore, of all the messengers. Third Commission, Foreign Trade and Customs Commission. It was agreed that this commission numbers 9 members and a proposal to make this part of Jadranko Prlić, Neven Tomić, Ivan Mijačević, Vito Rakić, Nikola Špirić, Radenka Balta, Raifa Alagić, Munira Karić and Nedžad Branković. Any suggestions, questions regarding this composition of the Commission or the proposal? As far as I can tell, there isn't. I put the Commission's proposal to vote, and I ask the MPs to declare by raising their hands who is in favour of the proposed composition? Thirty-six, one-way, so we don't need to repeat the vote. I also find that this composition of the Commission has been adopted in the proposed composition. The fourth commission is the Commission on finance and budget issues. It has been agreed that this commission has 10 members. It is proposed to be the next MPs Špirić Nikola, Vito Rakić, Milenka Bošnjak, Nedžad Branković, Mustafa Pamuk, Edhem Bičakčić, Suada Muminagić, Pero Skopljak, Neven Tomić and Ivo Divković. Are there any questions, suggestions regarding the composition of the Commission, the proposal? As far as I can tell, no one's applying. I put the commission's proposed composition to the vote, and I urge the MPs to declare by raising their hands who is in favour of the proposed composition? I also find that this commission has been adopted unanimously. The 5th Commission is the Commission on human rights issues, immigration, refugees, and asylum. This commission would have nine members and was proposed the following composition of Malkić Abdurahman, Mediha Filipović, Smail Bećirbašić, Tokić Sejfudin, Mara Perkanović, Branislava Jovanović, Miodrag Deretić, Ivan Mijačević and Ana Havel. Any suggestions for a change? No Niko's answering. I'm putting the Commission to the vote. Who's in favor of the proposed composition? So a unanimous proposal has been adopted. Thank you. The Sixth Commission is the Commission on Transport and Communications. The Commission would have nine members. The following composition of Branko Dokić, Dragan Mirković, Radenka Balta, Bogić Bogičević, Tarik Čaršimamović, Nedžad Branković, Abdurahman Malkić, Neven Tomić and Ivica Pašalić were proposed. Any new suggestions? No one's applying for a discussion. I'm putting the composition of this committee to a vote. Who's to raise your hand please. So this composition was unanimously adopted. The seventh Commission is the Commission on administrative issues. The Commission would have nine members and was proposed the following composition of Desanka Rađević, Nikola Špirić, Vito Rakić, Ivo Lozančić, Suada Muminagić, Mustafa Pamuk, Alma Čolo, Pero Skopljak and Jozo Leutar. Any new suggestions? There isn't. I am putting the committee to vote in the proposed composition and I call on the MPs to declare by raising their hands who is in favour of the proposed composition? This composition of the Commission was adopted unanimously. I find that we have chosen the working bodies of the House of Representatives, with a note that according to the Rules of Procedure, the committee will select between its composition the presidents and the five vice-presidents of these committees, which will be confirmed by the House of Representatives. By congratulating the elected members of the committees, I call on the committees to make the maximum effort to prepare all questions for the House of Representatives, because I expect that in the time ahead, the commission will play one of the key roles in this House of Representatives. We're moving on to the 2nd item of the agenda, which we've defined as... The MPs recall that at a constitutional session of the House of Representatives and also at college meetings before the constitutional session, a number of parliamentary parties initiated a discussion or debate on preparations for the Madrid conference, asking the House of Representatives to get acquainted with what has been done so far in preparing a delegation for participation at the upcoming Madrid conference, that the materials that are ready to be delivered, that representatives of the Council of Ministers possibly the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina meet the House of Representatives with during preparations and that MPs, depending on the course of the debate, give and prepare their contribution to the BiH delegation for participation in the Madrid Conference. In accordance with what we agreed on at the College, I sent a letter immediately after the constitutional sessions and members of the Council of Ministers and members of the Bureau calling on them to deliver any harmonised materials and until then prepared and to prepare their presentations with the aim of introducing MPs to the House of Representatives during preparations for participation at the Madrid Conference. Officially, as parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and as chairman of the House of Representatives, I did not receive a draft document prepared for the Madrid conference and did not receive an official annex. The draft documents of the declaration that I specifically received I referred to in the material to the MPs, and the draft annex that we also received a few days ago specifically, I gave to translate. Of course, the annex discusses more in detail the issues mentioned and mentioned in the basic document. I noticed one raised hand Mr. Špirić answered for the discussion and we will continue.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u933	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to give a break of 10 minutes. I remind you, this is the agenda point: preparation for the upcoming Madrid conference. We expect the opening statements as I have announced, but Ambassador Šumaher has applied for the discussion, I ask him to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u935	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me your word. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs. The Madrid Peace Implementation Council conference is one of the points of the implementation of the Dayton 6 Agreement and there is no doubt that institutions and bodies at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina and at entity level will need assistance and advice from the international community for an even longer period of time. However, I will be open, and I will admit that it is quite amazing that the international community is ready and able to hold that level of assistance in terms of both financial resources and staff and all other types of assistance at the level at which it is now. We want all domestic and domestic politicians to take that role and I assure you that the responsibility of domestic politicians will be the main issue to be discussed at the Madrid conference. However, we are determined to discuss at the Madrid Conference our further efforts on our efforts for the next two years and with full determination to achieve all the objectives of the Dayton Spontrum and to take into account all of our powers, and in particular taking into account the powers of the Bosnian document. It was very important that the preparations for this conference were included and the local authorities and we did so in one appropriate way with cooperation with all the executive bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities and in the draft document took into account, as far as possible, the opinions of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and all other parties involved in this process and the chairman of the House of Representatives and the esteemed deputies complained that the Madrid document and its annex were not formally delivered to Parliament, but ladies and gentlemen this would not be in line with all the working rights applicable in our democracies. Whatever you are talking about right now, please do not forget that these papers you are now holding in your hands that are still a working version of the document of the international community that is still analyzing them, so that what you disagree with that document and what you are discussing can change from that document within the next hour. In a conversation with one of Parliament's members, I tried to explain the democratic work of Parliament. This means that a working document, a working version of any document, that such a version cannot be discussed publicly. I would have been more than happy to have had the opportunity to discuss these issues with the House of Representatives' Commission on Foreign Affairs. However, so far this Commission has not been formed, so as far as we were able, we have tried to include all relevant needs in the preparatory process. The Bureau and the Council of Ministers were also involved, with whom we had already started talking about this some time ago. I'm grateful to the Council of Ministers for your cooperation. It is now up to the Council of Ministers and to the chairman of the Council of Ministers to present their opinion. I'd like, as far as two general questions go, to say something about it, to ask for your support. First of all, I think it's a big shame and it's amazing that Bosnia and Hercegoivna is going to the Madrid conference three months after the election, and that conference without the elected government. We've informed the Presidency of that. However, I'm sorry to say that we haven't received any answers until today. And it's a shame it hasn't been done in three months. This shows a lack of responsibility that the government has not been properly elected within three months, taking into account all the circumstances and economic circumstances in which the country is now located. I expect Parliament today to call on the Presidency to resolve this issue as soon as possible. I'd like to say one more thing about the Council of Ministers. It is fully acceptable that the position in your document is that more needs to be done on economic recovery and on the flow of assistance and on the integration of European integration. However, I don't think this is one bluish segment. As for your call for the International Community to continue to provide assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina indefinitely, while at the same time the Working Group on Reconstruction, for the reform of the Council of Ministers is unable to coordinate its position. The international community is always easily criticised when it is reportedly involved in your 7 internal issues. And as for improving your government's work, The Council of Ministers, we made it clear that it was your responsibility. We just want to give guidance and support. You can consider it... if the Government and all domestic factors can solve this problem without interference from the International Community and without using the powers of the High Representative given to me from the Bonjourn Document. So, I'll be glad to have your contribution to this discussion as well. And I hope that this issue will be resolved by the new Council of Ministers elected by the Presidency, so that it will address the effectiveness of the Council's work. Our only chance is to achieve all the goals of Dayton by working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u936	I thank the Deputy High Representative, Ambassador Šumaher, for these useful clarifications, because there were really issues among the MPs. I believe that this is a solution and is useful and meets those questions that have been asked by the MPs -- why we haven't received the working versions of these documents. Mr Silajdžić, co-chairing the Council of Ministers, applied for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u937	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, you received material in line with the discussion we had at the last session of Parliament, which is a summary of the Council of Ministers' activities in preparation for the Madrid Conference. So, the Madrid Conference is preparing the International Community, the author of Anexa and the Declaration is the International Community. The Council of Ministers installed, in accordance with its powers and competences, as far as possible, its observations, suggestions, proposals in that paper. Therefore, the documents included the surrounding remarks, suggestions and proposals of the Council of Ministers as far as possible. The international community is present continuously at meetings of the Council of Ministers, and Mr. Šumaher is mostly present at these meetings in continuity. Therefore, she is constantly familiar with the international community with the open issues facing the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers is at your disposal, a member of the Council of Ministers are present at this session. To elaborate the material in front of you. I repeat, this is a summary of our two-month activities. But the material and the Madrid conference, of course, should, in relation to the Council of Ministers, be observed in the continuity of our work so far. If you'll allow me, my colleagues from the Council of Ministers will probably speak too, I would like to point out two issues of which there is absolute agreement in the Council of Ministers. I would point out at this point both to the International Community and to the Madrid Conference, Mr. Šumaher has in some way already summed up those two issues and I will only mention them here. The first is the continuation of donor and credit activities and after the completion of the programme, which is $5.1 billion. Let me repeat, continue these activities. If donor and credit activities don't continue, I'm afraid we can question what we've achieved so far. That's the first one. Secondly, there is full agreement in the Council of Ministers and not only in the Council of Ministers that Bosnia needs to enter European integration as soon as possible. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina in European integration as soon as possible. Nature, European integration has conditions for membership. We think that the differences that exist within the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, Parliament, political parties etc. Relativise Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to these integrations, and thus harmonize 8 harmonize our standards, our laws, our behaviour with standards and standards that we consider European, and we consider ourselves, of course, part of Europe and the citizens of Europe. Members of the Council of Ministers, the President, the Vice-President, ministers are at your disposal if you need any elaborates, I reserve the right to report back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u938	We will put a priority on the representatives, or members of the Council of Ministers, if there is any further need to report to the Council of Ministers. Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u939	First, I want to thank you for having the opportunity to perform today at the House of Representatives and to welcome everyone present. Mr Silajdžić didn't say any more things on purpose, leaving room for us to talk about, did not say where else the Council of Ministers absolutely agrees. One of the big things is, for example, Implementation of the laws passed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Total is the Council of Ministers in these two years, and you will have an opportunity to discuss when we discuss the Council of Ministers' Report to discuss more in detail and to discuss 18 laws. It is our conclusion that the implementation of these laws at the very beginning, where, not wanting to further elaborate at the moment, we are merely saying the practical implementation of these laws is therefore also on entities, i.e. the Republic of the Serbian Federation. We believe that there is no reason for these laws to be implemented more quickly and to be implemented in action. Also, the Council of Ministers is absolutely determined to support the building of democratic institutions of the system at all levels, meaning both at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at the level of entities and at the local level. Building and reviving all democratic institutions will create a whole other space politically and economically, and we will get even closer. In this context, the Council of Ministers will probably, in the next period, no matter who is in it, take active participation, give full support to further development and the foundation of all democratic institutions, as is just foreseen by the Dayton Peace Agreement. So much for getting started.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u940	Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u941	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to point out a few more things with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with our agreement, in front of this item on the agenda. First of all, the Council of Ministers made up a report on the work and today's session adopted the text of the Report on its work, which will take a significant picture of the implementation of the conclusions of the Bosnian Conference and what the Council of Ministers has done in the past period, and today this material from the session of the Council held before this Parlment was referred to Parliament in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, for these very reasons, the Council of Ministers believes that, in the coming period, it is necessary to work and insist and ask the International Community to strengthen the system of responsibility, transparency and sanctioning illegal action at all levels of government, to establish public infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Annex 9. The peace agreement, we are looking for full implementation of the Return Programme, in accordance with aneks 7 and the basis of the Law that we have proposed to this Parliament - therefore, 9 make-up of a comprehensive Return Programme at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is also our goal, as has already been said, to develop further political economic relations with European integration, with the ultimate goal of joining the European Union, to establish relations with the World Trade Organisation and to further accelerate the process of restoring the integration of economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, it has special importance to strengthen and further develop the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to think only that the Council of Ministers in its work so far has been one of the most exposed to the public, but that as a joint institution and has made significant efforts to implement the letter of the Peace Agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At this stage, this was through institutional organisation, through the adoption of laws, and now followed by the full implementation of these laws, the harmonisation and harmonisation of entity laws with the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the creation of preconditions for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the conclusions and views of the Peace Conference on Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u942	Mr. Prlić, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u943	My colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I don't want to take too much time away from my fellow MPs who probably took part in the debate. Since it's been agreed in the Council of Ministers that if each of us says a few of the most important things from the Ministry's portfolio that I'm headed for. I took the right to say those few words to myself. First of all, we must keep in mind our position. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a member of the Peace Implementation Council and we do not decide in Madrid. It's important that we know what this is about. A year ago, the chairman of the presidency wanted to do an intervention that he was told was not a member and that he was not the deciding factor. The most important issue this Parliament has at this point, I am also speaking as a minister and as a member of Parliament, are not yet regulated these things as far as I can be, is whether we are able to take more responsibility for the country's leadership, in line with the Dayton Constitution. That's the most important question. A great battle of annexes will be found outside the Madrid Conference. Hundreds of two hundred tasks, deadlines that need to be done for Bosnia and Herzegovina to work. Are we really going to be a subject in all of this, or are we still going to be an object that, after this Madrid conference, will get these materials to try to implement them, and yet with extremely many difficulties. I would like to say that the international community is an important factor in building peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. She is a signator, she is a witness to the Dayton Peace Agreement and Bosnia and Herzegovina is obviously building together on the frameworks of the international community and us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The period of consolidation ends, right now, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is clear that, without the role of the international community, Bosnia and Herzegovina has collapsed. And when it comes to the functioning of joint institutions and the so-called the material part of the problem, therefore, is the possibility that the state community can function in the light of the trade balance, the financial situation and everything else. So, 10, this is the most important thing, is it true that we're going to take responsibility for ourselves to lead the country, in accordance with what the Constitution predicted, or not? Or we will use representatives of the international community, and the urchin council, and representatives of those who are in Sarajevo to continue fighting for certain political goals and after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in a different way. When it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a few things matter. First of all, we have a full concentration of all bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to membership in the Council of Europe. However, it is not just a political decision. Our goal is next, I ask Parlamnet to give support to that attitude. A procedure for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina into this organisation has been opened, and our goal is for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be on the Council of Europe for the 50th anniversary of the organisation. In order to do so, it is necessary to meet certain conditions. I would ask Parliament to support the fulfilment of these conditions. First of all, the adoption of the electoral law in Bosnia and Herzegovina is about improving the level of implementation of the Human Rights and Obstacles Council decisions, making appropriate laws at entity levels guaranteeing the choice of independent judges and independent judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, completing ownership laws, making significant progress in the restructuring of police forces in both entities, and functioning more fully human rights institutions. When it comes to neighbours, the Council will likely deal with our relations with both the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Our goal is to establish diplomatic relations with the savezni repbulika of Jugoslavija as soon as possible, speaking about relations with the European Union, we are in a regional approach that would come from a simple position. The European Union is not ready to develop relations with some countries that are unable to have quality relations with their neighbours. A clear message from Parliament, in terms of establishing diplomatic relations and regulating remaining relations, establishing diplomatic relations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and regulating remaining relations with the Republic of Croatia, is extremely important in this respect. I believe that Parliament should support further activities in implementing the European Union Declaration on Bosnia and Herzegovina. In line with that declaration, a joint working group has been established to prepare a proposal for certain legal acts that are capable of adapting Bosnia and Herzegovina to the requirements of the European Union. It could probably be given next year, in fact, to support the activities of law-building in the area of justice, in the field of conservation, media, economic reforms, as an iprincip for good governance, therefore, in the management of state affairs. I also believe that it is important, given the initiative of the Office of the High Representative, to open up in a similar manner and political dialogue with the European Union. I want to say that we are not yet able to have any level of responsible relations with the European Union. When it comes to some other things, and they are important for foreign policy, they refer to stabilisation. First in this area, the marginalized way is the reduction in the number of five types of weapons, in line with the Sporzaum signed in Florence, in June 1996, and I think it would be good for Parliament to support the beginning of the talks, in accordance with Article 5. This Article 5 provides for talks in the wider region, 20 countries are involved, and it concerns the application of appropriate conventions on disarmament and otherwise arms control, which have been signed in Europe, and this region is concerned, we have given support, we expect the potipire and Parliament. So these are the most important information that I thought was important to say before the start of this discussion. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u944	Thank you. Is there anyone else from the Council of Ministers who needs it? I have two reports, therefore, Mr Spahić, Mr Tokić, Mr Lagumdžija, Bogičević and Vito Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u945	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I am pleased that we have had the opportunity to present the report of the Council of Ministers' representatives in a way that reflects both the power and the impotence of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, I am pleased to hear Mr Prlić's word, because I see that he is asking for his support as foreign minister and as an MP for this House of Representatives, which means that we have at least one safe person to support what Mr Prlić is talking about. As for the document that's in front of us, of course, that this is work material and very good that it's in procedure. I would like to propose one quite operational thing to Parliament, which is that the Foreign Policy Commission is to establish, practically, immediately after this session, as well as the other commissions to provide one of the fundamental issues that are being raised by Mr Vestendorf, ato is a democratic procedure, to consider all the documents concerning the fate of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be on the inside, when it comes to internal political dialogue, was our position in Europe and the world. Therefore, the first sign of goodwill expressed by Mr Prlić towards himself, in the double role that I have, could have been used in one, too, by the letter of Mr Vestendorf, very precisely indicated, and she said that there is a recommendation with the congratulators, that in the next period, the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be dealing with issues concerning, above all, the determination of relations with what the laws have put on, temporarily whether, on the force of Mr Vestendorf, and thus, the Chamber House would show the political responsibility of taking over its own role and its own institutions to realize what the fate of Bosnia and Herzegovina is. It is the first elemental sign of the goodwill of MPs and MPs. And that would be the best confirmation that, apart from verbal support, we have, therefore, open space afterwards, and for the adoption of the remaining laws as proposed by the Council of Ministers and by the High Representative himself. It is obvious that the time of decision is coming and that we can no longer ask for the time to postpone the solution until the moment it puts them into effect, according to its own powers and powers that it has in the international community, Mr. Westendorf. The best answer to this letter by MPs would be to accept these two principled positions, including a democratic procedure that is not simply possible because there are no democratically established institutions in Parliament itself and of course, that the attitude of the political forces shows that if a statement by the council of ministers were really sincere today in front of the House of Representatives, that we would probably have then established political will. If it were the result of political dialogue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, these demands from Mr. Vestendorf's letter would probably be, as I would say, at the full pace of realisation and move away from what we are now in. 12 Secondly, I would like to ask that after the meeting of the Foreign Policy Commission, finally on the agenda of the House of Representatives, after two and a half years, for two more yearsDejton the mandate of both home and others, the actual agenda, of course, with the opinion of the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers, Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy in one democratic procedure, because it is inadmissible for one country to take over power with its politicians responsible for more or less, and that, as far as I know, Parliament has never formally dealt with foreign policy, except that it has received a joint policy report, externally political moves. With regard to two issues raised by Mr Šumaher in connection with the government's constitution support, it is undeniable that the Civil Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina has warned in the past three and a half months, that it is inadmissible in the democratic procedure not to ensure the establishment of the Council of Ministers and other governments at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a situation of such economic ruin in our country, social misery and marginalisation of different layers of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from disabled people to people who have been unhappy on various grounds, who have lost their jobs. At a time when concentrated employment programmes are being created, let's say, the unemployed four million Nijemac in Germany, I see no reason why Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have such a government that is able to offer a programme concerning its citizens and I do not see why these are higher political interests that delay the establishment of the government and which is of greater interest and whose greater interest is that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be affected through their legitimate authorities with the problems they face. With regard to the structure of this council of ministers, of course, it is our interest to make it modern, and the European government is as much as we want effective integration into European institutions and that the government is respectable throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it can indeed represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in different bodies and institutions, especially in the part concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina's immediate fate. Of course, for me too, the question of foxes and chickens, as well as for Mr. Klark and we look forward to having the opportunity to comment on this statement about the failed, of course, plans for the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the immediate blockade in Bosnia and Herzegovina is dictated by the interests of the losers of the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina when there is no possibility of such a further situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it was important, indeed, to turn to issues that are of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, we who have received legitimacy from citizens during the last elections. If Vilston Čerčil was three years after World War II, he could invite Europe to unification and if a different European unification movement was formed, and if a different European unification movement was formed, and if a different European unification movement was formed, and if 50 years had passed, could not the Bosnian-Herzegovic society, its politicians, this parliament, along with all the responsible people, invite the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and political forces to a single dialogue with issues on the agenda. I'd like in that sense to turn my attention to the next one. It is obvious that until we adopt a permanent electoral law that there is no way that we are able to manage political, economic, social and other processes in BiH on our own. I therefore consider it important to put this as a priority in the BiH Parliament, as well as a revision of all laws that do not comply with the European Conventions on Human Rights. Why do I think it's important to ask Annex 7 again in another way today? We have begun to produce practically 13 as a country of each individual in Bosnia and Herzegovina and every nation by minority in relation to their social, national and political, religious and all durge interests particularly economically. There are now already analyses in crisis groups on how minorities should be employed in BiH. This latest analysis I received shows, in fact, that in the world of BiH society, the concept that we are going to live by is being conditioned in a way that every man will be disproved tactically throughout the BiH area. There is nothing of equality between the citizens and the equality of the people of BiH. And lastly, I'd like to draw attention to two questions that I'm particularly interested in. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the question of freedom of movement, namely, I really appreciate the election bases that made up these two homes. The House of Peoples and Representatives/The House of Representatives of BiH, but I think BiH politicians must show their ability and responsibility so that they can move freely in their territory in BiH as well as in Europe and the world, where they can face problems, even with different, completely different political visions and relations and in concrete things, I think it is the task of this Parliament, as well as the Government. I do not understand the government or the parliament that stands isolated in a particular part of the country, and which we want to be respectable from the outside world, it is simply not possible, in relation to freedom of movement, politicians, above all MPs, and then the government must show the ability, and in fact the responsibility and ability to move around the whole territory of BiH to represent it. Not just to walk around Bosnia, but to make programs for technological, scientific and other development. The second question I want to raise in particular is the question of people, new generations, young people. I think it is time to ask before the BiH Parliament the congress and the meeting that we have in Madrid, so with this meeting, the question of the responsibility of this parliament for new generations, whether we actually have a programme that will ensure that tens of thousands of people do not ask for three and a half years after their chance in America, Canada, but rather feel part of Europe, America and the world and do their job well. The key issue is privatisation and transition in BiH, it is business, it is a new economic policy. I would like us to have a great discussion on who will be your Minister of Economic Policy, who will be our minister and who will be our services, who will deal with relations with the European and the world. As we will actually make an effective decision regarding the declaration of special relations with the European Union, it is a central issue but in the interests of the citizens of BiH and in the interests of the very Europe itself, it is natural that we are interested in establishing diplomatic relations, but the borders must first be protected in order to be open. At the same time, they must be both open and protected, which is why I believe that the opportunity for the Madrid Conference House of Representatives and participants at the Madrid Conference of the Peace Implementation Council is to say that there is one principle, if we have not accepted, no one has accepted peace without freedom, no one has accepted peace without justice, no one has accepted peace without home, we cannot have other choice but to build peace, implement it alone, where we can in a way that we can create trust among people, that we return essentially what is called the community of which BiH society in all its differences is simply as thirsty as water, as bread and as work, and that is why I would like to draw attention to us as Parliament to take the political initiative for this job. And in doing so, I would like to have the opportunity to hear from one man before the meeting, before the House of Representatives, the unity of opinions and ideas related to the programs that we have the opportunity to listen to here. Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u946	Thank you. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u947	The Honorable Presidency, chairing, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs. On behalf of the Social Democrats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to express our views in the context of preparations for the Madrid conference. At first, I would point out the need not to look more into the truth in our salami, not to fall for an atmosphere that allegedly reflects significant progress in the process of implementing the peace agreement, and significant results, etc. We share the view that there are significant blockades, obstructions, stagnations, even negative trends in achieving the three strategic goals that obviously the largest part of this highest home is shared by BiH, which is the consistent application of the Mirovngo Agreement, the faster transition of BiH into a truly plural society and based on major changes in the economy and the legal system and the inclusion of BiH in integration processes, primarily in European integration processes, the EU and the Partnership for Peace. Those three fields are serious blockades and they're a serious stasis. We will reach the Madrid Conference and, in particular, implement the documents of the Madrid Conference as a party and as representatives of the citizens who have elected us, measure the level of achievement of eleven priorities. 1. - Privatization. And this privatisation is based on the principle of equality of all citizens with the greatest respect for past work. Without privatising the change in my relations, I am not sure that the donor funds the Council of Ministers insists on yielding its necessary results. 2. – Construction of a new tax and banking system that will create an ambience of markets with equal opportunities for all entities on the market from private companies, some that are closer to certain structures within existing and legal solutions that are very debilitative for both employment and investment-specific entities have the privilege, we already recognize them under quotes as successful private entrepreneurs, but they are very often moving in circles of a specific political environment and often a family environment. The real bearers of progress, the idea on the market today are suppressed. 3. – Consensus of all legal acts and regulations, all levels of state organisation with the Constitution of BiH and the long-term solutions of the Dayton Peace Agreement. In this context, in particular the affirmation of the equality of three constituent nations across BiH territory. When I talk about this, I am talking about the fact that very often legal solutions are made at entity levels, including BiH states which are disabled by different regulations, rabbits at canton and municipality levels. I am trying to explain the paradoxical fact that in BiH today, they often speak the following sentence most responsibly – I am for the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement and also for the respect of the law. Since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, a set of regulations has already been passed and with the akons that oppose Dayton's solutions, much less on all territories and on many national levels. I think that corruption, abuse of position, malfeasance becomes an integral part of our daily life, and it is unacceptable for people to be at peace with that fact, it is unacceptable that the highest factors of this country at different levels of speech have corruption. In the streets, in contact with ordinary people, no one ever argues about corruption anymore. What does that show? It shows the fact that existing institutions, legislative, judicial, executive, have not organised themselves enough and have not adequately answered these questions. At the end of the day, if we asked a citizen who knew perfectly about the abuses of the position of malfeasance, why didn't 15 make that application, he would laugh – “whom application?” – so to those who do so. BiH needs new laws, special laws, and, in our opinion, special institutions within the judiciary to deal with this difficult problem. I think that in this document of ours under point 5 we cited the realization of Annex 7, but we specifically underlined the exercise of the right to private property. I think the situation with these social housings has been artificially clouded and it's completely forgotten that you have citizens in Banja Luka who can't handle their private property. They lived all the time in Banja Luka, but they can't exercise the right to their own private house. As you have here the maximum range of democracy and the right to private property that comes down to the fact that citizens of Serbian nationalities who have left the Sarajevo area have the right to see their house, some have the right to see, and some cannot even see their house. In that context, I don't think there's any authority in any of the structures the right to even more politicize private property. I think that the international community has fallen into a trap of broad rules that are not often clear to us about social, state-owned property, and property of enterprises, and that it has ignored the basic fundamentally first of all on private property without which there is no society built on either political or democratic grounds. Six. Ensuring conditions for building a state with full affirmation of independence and separation of the legislative, judicial and executive authorities. In this context, I call on all of these, there are one four five perhaps more present not to be at the same time members of committees and members of parliament and members of the Council of Ministers. To break in themselves and decide what will happen, whether it was Silajdžić, Tomić, Prlić or vice versa, Prlić, Tomić, Silajdžić. Seven. I think the jurisdiction of the Sarajevo district must be defined. I think it's unwarranted in the Madrid documents and what's being said and thought, and when a particular question is not properly asked, it's trying to treat other very bad legal solutions. We've all been witnesses here, and we've seen now that too much to allow every institution employee to have the right to immunity, it's a joke. We need to address the issue of districts, the activities of central institutions, and thus resolve the issue of security, action and all that needs to be had by employees whether it is technical or professional services. 8. We are in favour of establishing the diplomatic leadership of BiH and Yugoslavia, and we are dealing with this with an important assumption that all issues are being resolved on international standards. So, establishing these diplomatic relations without conditions on an equal footing, and right away. I think that last debate we each in our own way gave full support to The Hague Court, I would point out here that this is very important from the aspect of individual responsibility and avoidance of what the media so some political factors are constantly trying to talk about collective responsibility for the crimes involved in the past period. Ten. I think that alone here when we talk about strengthening central institutions we need to talk about strengthening Parliament. The Madrid documents also discuss strengthening the councils of ministers and the presidency. I think it can appear as separate centres of power if this Parliament does not really assume its role and every member of this Palrament begins to decide, raise his hand not in the scale with a view to how to follow the vote rather than with full responsibility with the problems BiH has. 16 11. We have before us the forms of mass social dissatisfaction and they are, of course, justified, but let us remember that rather than solving these social problems, we are developing a kind of game to target these social unrest. These social unrest would be very much directed towards the international community, both in tones and in some of the debates before me, felt in a certain way the need, especially in the media, is what we have said and an interview by co-chair Silajdžić, the need for a certain degree of responsibility for the country's fate to be passed on to the International Community. Whoever is not willing to take responsibility for his shoulders, let him not bear any function, even if it is, in our opinion and unconstitutional as, or co-chair. Thank you. I would only ask for the end - I am interested in the modality and I would ask that Parliament eventually draw conclusions towards Parliament's further activity on its return from Madrid. Gentlemen will go to Madrid, return - Parliament must take control of the implementation of the documents from Madrid. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u948	Two previous discussions were slightly longer than business. I would ask the MPs to make sure it's a ten-minute discussion and try it within ten minutes. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u949	Members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Šumaher and all present, I would like to ask, Mr. Chairman, that, in principle, you stick to one principle, which is - if you start in one way, bring it to an end. In other words, if you have given your colleague from the CD Coalition - colleague Tokić so much time, allow other MPs to use so much time or in the future to interrupt immediately. At the very least, I don't think it's a problem for someone to come out here for a little while longer, if anyone has anything to say, by the more the members of the Council of Ministers gave us enough space, because their presentations were the least summed up. I think we've saved a lot of time here, when it comes to time. I especially thank Mr. Šumaher for giving us the opening remarks. It is unfortunate that the Office of the High President has given us opening remarks. It is also saddened that from the first co-chair to the second, we had discussions. I also thank my colleague Prlić, who, given the location and location where he was sitting, probably spoke as a representative, but I must say that in their presentation, it was seen that he was the foreign minister and I am obliged to say that he did give a little more light in his opening remarks to the Council of Ministers, and I think that this is something to be determined. At the very least, I think we need to learn to talk from here about things that are good and to point to them so they don't repeat themselves. I, of course, will not criticise the opening remarks, the exposure and the like. except to make a few brief comments as a guideline, however you want these things not to happen in the future. We've been told we've received materials and preparations for the Council of Ministers. Correct me if I'm wrong. Am I the one who got a little material, if this seems small or is this really all? Is it really these six pages, which signed on one page by a minister with two deputies, which signed on the other page, and in which two deputies of the same 17-minute-old, without the minister's position, sent their separate visions of the Madrid document. If, I apologize to my fellow MPs, did you get anything more than this? If these are the introductory materials that were delivered to us and delivered to the benches just before the beginning, and some of these materials bear dates, even before our last session, I really think this is the least said, humiliating this House. We are going to Madrid with this, on these six pages, as far as our MP is concerned. I just want to ask a few questions before I make any suggestions. I think that my colleague Prlić, in fact, directed the discussion and he offered me to take a completely different direction, clearly telling us that we were actually not wondering. A fine man told us that our members of the Presidency, the heads of state, when they came that they weren't members of that council, that they weren't wondering. Now, when we're not wondering what's going to happen there, then I suggest we reroute our debate in giving the Council of Ministers, the competent miniatures of domestic tasks for what we as Parliament are asking ourselves, and we're wondering what's going to happen from implementing what we're not wondering. Because we here choose people who need to worry about implementing what someone is going to prescribe to us in Madrid and give us a little yes, I will therefore propose the conclusions in this light, to make some decisions or recommendations or conclusions that will go towards implementing what needs to be implemented. I must admit that I have expected, frankly, that from the Council of Ministers, instead of saying a few small excursions to concrete things, I have heard nothing but one number of exceptions to which I will not warm my soul, I have heard such philosophizing on the subject of life and beyond in Madrid and our obligations, I have expected the Council of Ministers to receive: 1. What was done about the documents from Sintra, S. Petesburg. Portugal, Luxembourg so far? 2. What they tell us what they suggest and what they expect, because I don't consider these six pages a team. 3. To get a third thing, what do they think they're doing now? What will they do when they get back from Madrid? We can't leave the government alone for 100 days, like every country does, because here's 100 days -- this one's in peace because it's gone. It'll be 100 days, we won't do it. I apologize for the inaccuracies, if anyone is allergic. I had no intention. So, I ask that we be delivered for the first next session, what is the constitutional obligation of the Council of Ministers. Not that we're going out here and it explains one by one -- I mean this, that thought, that, this is what we agree on, this is exactly what we disagree on. And then you'll sit down again tomorrow at the Council of Ministers. I thank you, but he can't do it anymore. Madrid won't be able to do it for sure. In the end, when the world comes to spring to throw out the window of the people responsible for this country's economic collapse to know who they're going to throw out, to throw out selectively. So, please, you are under the Constitution - let me remind you of Article 5.4a) to deliver the report to us at least one yearly. counterpart Bosić said there would be a report. Two years ago you were elected, many of us claim that you are anti-constitutionally selected and we still don't have your report that you should have done under the Constitution. You could have prepared that for us today, so at least it would have been an answer to some of the questions. I particularly draw attention to what my colleague Prlić has shown us. We are not asking ourselves here, and the decision to join the European Union is not a political decision, but a matter of conditions. I will not read to you what it says in the Luxembourg Declaration of the European Union, because it says very clearly what the conditions are, I ask that we, colleague Prlić, be given a report from your Ministry, if the Council of 18 ministers cannot, what has been done under that Declaration, by creating these conditions, to see and to see Parliament from the appropriate commission that, to see what we do and to start creating these conditions. That's the way it is. If I had received the opening remarks, if I had received in the opening notes what was done, what goes on in Madrid, I wouldn't have talked so much. I must say what you gentlemen have not done from the Council of Ministers, if the Council of Ministers is tossing. In that light, I would also ask that here a few conclusions be made to the adoption later. The first conclusion - that the Council of Ministers or the competent ministry prepares the Information and that the committees are given information from which an operational programme of what follows from the Luxembourg Declaration would be made, has not yet reached Madrid. Then, to conclude, I fully support my colleague Spahić, I think he made a great proposal, to immediately establish after this the Commission for International Relations and Šumaher call on the Commission for International Relations to report on what is actually going on in these papers, to get involved in this. If he tells us, we're serious people, this is secret, this you can't know, there's no problem, but then let's make some contribution to it. Also, I propose that we conclude that in the next seven days all the committees of Parliament are being established and that the neighbours in their jurisdiction according to the Rules of Procedure not to read what it is, prepare an operational programme from their domain, which is derived from the Madrid document that will be dictated there and do so immediately. To get the Council of Ministers to prepare a report on two years of work in the next 15 days and to give us a proposal, but as a Council of Ministers, and if you will, you can again be one of the ministers and their deputies, for the commissions, so that we can see how to get to the operational programme, what can we do in the next two years after the Madrid conference. Also, I suggest that what Mr. Šumaher showed us, we settle it. To have the Council of Ministers meet at the first break and tell us what's the problem with the constitution of the Council of Ministers, what's the problem. Do you have a problem? To tell us why the Council of Ministers isn't being played. If the agenda for the Madrid conference isn't the Council of Ministers, if we don't have it after 100 days, then I withdraw this proposal. I think you'll agree with me that the lack of a council of ministers is certainly a serious matter for this country. So, I would ask, in that light, that today we are running for one operational conclusion of today's Parliament, offered with Madrid paper and going to meet the Madrid paper. I'm not going to talk about these things that two deputy ministers gave us here, in which they told us to do up to 2oo3. We need to get to $25,000 in national income. I think it's very good, but there's nothing in the situation in which we have borders in the way we have in the Madrid document and I ask the Council of Ministers for the first next session of Parliament to prepare us an appropriate legislative project that has a foothold in the Madrid document, to establish customs, customs and police services, as it stands here, which corresponds to the state institutions, to protect customs, the borders that today in this country, by your estimates, between a billion and two billion dollars of dollars, which, annually, enters this country unsettled, and I would ask you to make a statement here from our fellow Genjac, because every day can calculate how much millions of dollars it is. And, finally, I ask the Council of Ministers to prepare for the next session of Parliament, right after the Madrid conference, a report with this operational programme, and to do it in peace nicely, right after Madrid -- without people from the International Community, after they've gone to Christmas and New Year's holidays, and if we wait for them there in February, we can see these people again, 19 have but they're doing it longer, we have all the holidays here, so I suggest we do it right after Madrid, because on December 20th, the holidays here -- from Ramazan and then on, and they're going to last with, somewhere in mid-January, so I'd ask you to appreciate it before Ramazan, if you want to do it before Christmas, anyway this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u950	I, once again appeal that within ten minutes, of course we will not take away the word, but that within ten minutes try to balance the discussion. The next reported debater is Mr. Bogičević.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u951	Your Honor, allow me, before I say so, to remind you that, in Dayton, an Annex six has been signed. - and that's the Human Rights Agreement. Today is December 10th, today all mankind marks 50 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And let me remind you of that date, if not to congratulate all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on this significant jubilee, simply because in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, basic human rights, the right to life, have been compromised for years, the consequences are known. The right to property, freedom of movement and a number of human rights signed three years ago in Dayton, Annex 6. Secondly, today it is said that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a member of the Peacengo Agreement Implementation Council. Does it make sense to say anything about the draft declaration? Yesterday, in preparation for Madrid, Republika Srpska, its parliament, today's parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held tomorrow's Parliament of the Federation. This declaration will obviously be a product of the international community. And if it makes sense to say something, then I'd say next. The Declaration discusses our desire to self-sustainable economy, self-sustainable Bosnia and Herzegovina, the protection of individual and collective rights, the rule of law, the independent judiciary, the inviolability of private ownership, the untapped state apparatus and at all corruption, etc. If we're pursuing these universal values, then it would be good, if that's possible, if this one, I don't know which one in a row, we'll release the declaration from the overstatement and appeal. In this country, appeals and declarations are not respected. Secondly, it would be good to know what self-sustainable peace is. The return of refugees, for example, respect for property rights, economic development and reconstruction represent an axim of self-sustainable peace, clear to all, no space for political maneuvers, no room for sabotage. So, for example, the return of refugees and displaced to their homes, the entry into their possession is a constitutional imperative, which does not require political agreement, is enough by all constitutional means of the rule of law, to implement the imperial norm of the Constitution. When such a norm has not been implemented, it is a violation of the Constitution. Therefore, political solutions in the implementation of the Constitution are unnecessary and illegal. I know that political interests continue to exceed the constitutional standard of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, political parties do not decide on the imperial norms of the Constitution, they can only work on their implementation, as well as the institutions of the state. Secondly, we are witnessing that, let's say, the second standard of the Constitution concerning the constitutionality of the people and the equality of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is organised by a number of scientific and political discussions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also think that it is unnecessary, that this is excessive, that it is about applying the constitutional standard signed in Dayton that needs to be applied. I know, of course, that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have 20 constitutional mechanisms for application. Therefore, it would be good for the international community and in Madrid to provide mechanisms for effective implementation of the provisions of the Madrid Declaration throughout the territory. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not possess its own force of coercion, such as the police and the standing army, has no supreme court and we will be in a position to implement and the Madrid decalcration depends only on the goodwill of the political party of this or those, the institution of this or those. I know that with the right most in the draft decalcation there are words about economic reforms, because there is only a foothold to do something on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. If we have a central bank, and we have a central bank, that means one currency that we have. The currency is looking for a single payment turnover proposed in the Declaration. Payments include capital circulation across Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, all of which means adequate legal regulation. And therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party MPs, we support the Madrid Declaration. The Implementation Council, of course, in the draft we read, annexes, of course we haven't read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u952	Thank you. Next reported is Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u953	Gentlemen of the Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament and members of Parliament, the Madrid Conference is an opportunity to analyse all activities and behaviours of all participants in the implementation of the Dayton Agreement. Only so is it possible, after one such analysis, to carry out one consolidation and to establish the basic thesis of the Madrid Conference, which is self-sustainable peace and self-sustainable economy. I don't agree with a series of my predecessors, because we just forget things. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a common state and can be based on consistent application of the Dayton Agreement and based on mutual interest and mutual trust between both entities and all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many who debated before me discuss Bosnia as a unitary state, and Bosnia is gone. I think it's a long-term process, that it's one process after a war-related people who can gain trust with each other with a planned right designed for possible solutions that don't irritate anyone right now. We also consider in Rekpublici Srpski that when we look at this little call, which received a call for a meeting for the Madrid conference, a delegation from Republika Srpska was given a delegation from the Federation and a normal part of the joint bodies. So we in Republika Srpska believe that we have done important things in implementing the Dayton Agreement. First, at democratisation of relations we have done so much that it can no longer happen to establish a majority of parliament or any government to form without the least consensus of four parties, and that is enough to ensure transparency and ensure that the National Assembly, although it often seems to us, lasts for a long time, works in vain, comes to the first solutions. You just remember, and you probably know, all the laws on privatisation, the key laws on companies on securities on values, on stock exchanges, 21 in fact, the National Assembly brought with the votes of all parties, I don't think one MP just voted for these laws. We also had a tough law on property relations, that is, the law on amending the law on abandoned property, and you saw that this law was practically supported by all parties except one party. So the Repbulika of srpski created a democratic base to generate common interests for all who live there and want to live and to build on such principles a common state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not going to talk about any other things that have been done in this period. The freedom of movement of citizens, you know that in the last seven, eight months, virtually no excess has been in the Republika Srpska. You know the range of what's been done in Brcko, but we have no idea that we're setting up a rally so that the people can milaterize so that the Brckos are assigned to the Serbian Republic. That's what those who do think about what they're doing, and I think the international community would have to sanction it. A signed Framework Agreement on Police Reform and Modernisation. Republika Srpska police will have about 400 workers who are not Serbian nationalities by the end of this year. And these MPs from Republika Srpska have come with one thesis to ask only those questions and to initiate those laws that will lead us to progress together. I don't want us to initiate those laws and those problems that separate us, because we think it's time for us to trust each other and we can build something more over it. I'd say here especially about two questions. The first question is the problem of economic recovery. This will be one of the basic issues in the overall survival of both the Republika Srpska and the Federation and let's call the common states of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have practically no movement, and if in some reports we have that production has reached 15% since 1991, unfortunately we have lost 22 million people to market-based Yugoslavia, we have lost export jobs and we have essentially 10% of the market that we had in 1991, and all of these are some small shifts. Both Republika Srpska and the Federation, as far as I know, have adopted all legal packages that can create the basis for privatisation and for eating total reconstruction of the economic systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The only law missing from the RS is the law of labour law, labour markets, etc. that I do not mention this problem, that both entities must work one and the other again, in order to successfully implement privatisation in my opinion, the entities of the government must strategically access the reconstruction of the economic system and overall reprogramme one economic system planned for another market compared to everything that is happening today. In order for it to be possible to implement privatisation and carry out such procedures, jobs will still disappear and more workers will be fired. Therefore, in order for these first-minute procedures to be implemented, it is necessary for me to establish social funds through which this issue could be resolved, and I think that international community has a significant contribution. To talk further about business movements and the overall reconstruction would be unserious today if we were to talk about it and it is difficult to talk about it only in two or three sentences I simply wanted to point out this problem especially because if something more significant we would not do, we would be in a very difficult situation. The second issue I have to particularly apostrophe is solving refugees, the resolution of refugees is covered by the Dayton Agreement, however, this is certainly not going to be resolved as it has been done so far. In my view, both entities must have agencies or solid government ministries that will, based on the commitment of all 22 refugees and displaced, make plans and serve as their service to resolve their problem with the full coordination of one other agency, or one or another ministry. Normal with the formation of a fund that would help both agencies solve these issues. In the end, I want to say two or three things. As MPs, we came to this congregation depending on how we managed to save and what material they had received. The question has been raised to prepare whether we are even discussing the debate. We agreed to open it because this debate and these problems are well known to all of us. The solutions offered by the Madrid Declaration, I have to give one more special underline, can't be radical or can be imposed. Anything that's radical and forced will be hard to spend, and I think that time has shown so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u954	I need to replicate and use that right. I absolutely agree that the militarisation on Brcko should be sanctioned when making the arbitration decision, but not the militarisation that will result in peaceful manifestations that seek justice for Brcko, but the militarisation that has led to the injustice of Brcko and that has driven Brcko to the death of Brcko in Brcko. That militarization really needs to be sanctioned. The next reported debater is, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u955	Mr. Genjac, I, when I left this assembly last time and listened in the car, worked all the time those two hours of subparalos now to say which parties SDA called the people at 12 o'clock the next day. Whether any party has the right to call and gather people on some political issues that are not under way, we have all said our own, we have our votes and we are implementing policy on why the people chose us. And don't ask or ask the people for support again whether everything we did in 1990 and before that they brought us where we are today.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u956	Thank you. There is another replica after Mr. Silajdžič, to show that political parties and should address political issues and each party has the right and need to call for political manifestations of a peaceful political event, and I see nothing controversial about it. The next reported debater is Mr. Deretić. Here you go, Mr. Silajdžić, a replica, so let's have Mr. Dretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u957	Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the description or name of the common state. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a common state of all of us, there is no doubt about it, however, if the MP before me wanted to describe Bosnia and Herzegovina's rule of law, then I don't think it's in line with the Dayton Agreement. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state in the Dayton Agreement. It does not say a common state, I know that there are 23 attempts in certain political circles to establish something called the common state and in translation from English when translated to talk about circles outside Bosnia and Herzegovina stands exactly like that common rock state. Bosnia and Herzegovina does not and Bosnia and Herzegovina has, one day we will be able to clarify what it means to unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina, if Bosnia and Herzegovina is the unitary meaning of the single Bosnia and Herzegovina, then gentlemen have it. I translate it so, if unitary means unique, then there is, if nitrate means something else, then we need to know what it means, but please take Annex IV of the Dayton Agreement in it says that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state and continues its existence under international law, etc. means continuing to exist, the country that continues to exist, in the description does not say that it is a common state but that it is a state. We all know that the problems are coming from there, and that's why I would ask that we do not start this kind of discussion, if that's already said, then I must react now as an MP and react. As for this earlier information and misinformation that some MPs here exhibit, I reserve the right to react later, and this was just a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u958	Thank you. Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u959	Madam Chairman, Honorable fellow Members, distinguished guests, I would like to make my contribution to the Draft which we received before the madridak Conference only and first replicated to a quote by Mr Silajdžić, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a unitary state and cannot be a unitary state, Bosnia and Herzegovina is an absolute bar in the legal theory of an undefined form of legal entity. Something between the confederation and the Federation. Therefore, in the legal theory, given the provision of the Dayton Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, no single state can be in any variant, that is, as far as it is concerned, Mr. President and the other, I will only correct the respected predecessor of my colleague, Mr. Rakić, in the Republika Srpska Assembly against the law on the termination of the law on abandoned property was voted by not one party but two parties, the Radical Party of the RS and the Serbian Radical Party. I will state one reason and basic and besides that there are still a lot of them which the law provides for only and prefers a return, and absolutely disregards the other two rights provided for in the Dayton Agreement. As far as this platform or draft is concerned, I will do so very briefly in the opening part only the words that it is really inadmissible for us as MPs in the highest legislative body of Bosnia and Herzegovina to get materials so before the assembly itself before the sitting, with this more, if I don't remember correctly, Mr Silajdžić promised that on Saturday, then two days after our last session, we unfortunately didn't get the materials, and we didn't have enough time to study these materials 24 and to make a truly good contribution to future work at the upcoming Madrid conference. I'll start with Article 2. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where literally there are two lists of so-called The competences of Bosnia and Herzegovina's joint institutions and the competence of entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, this constitution assumes jurisdiction in favour of entities in any case as in the Dayton Agreement, resulting from Article 3a(3). where it has literally been established -- all government functions and powers that have not been explicitly given in this constitution to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be functions and model entities. The competencies of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are limited and apply only to the following things, I will particularly apostrophe that although I think we all know them well. Foreign policy, foreign trade policy, customs policy, monetary policy, institution financing and payment of obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, immigration, refugee and asylum, implementation of international and inter-entity policies, establishment and operation of common and international communications, regulation of inter-entity transport and air traffic control. All above this is the erosion of the Dayton Agreement and everything behind this, therefore, stems from the competences of these institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not authorised through its institutions to put certain tasks to the enities. It shall have the original public authority, but only in the domain of its powers granted to it in the jurisdiction of Article 3. Point 7. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina divided the jurisdiction between the joint institutions and entities. And besides, I want to, and so far it's a notorious fact, go into a change of jurisdiction, where the interests of the entity would be compromised. Entities shall have all the powers which have not been delegated to joint institutions. Entities exercise power under their own right, and under certain conditions they can assume the exercise of rights and obligations in international modes. There is an integrated concept on the scene that advocates unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is now also for us all, who, at least, are dealing with the right, absolutely clear. She's dangerous, so-called. Another volunteer concept that advocates so-called The spirit of Dejton and, unfortunately, this spirit of Dejtona, this very interesting syntagma came from representatives of international organisations, which aims at reintegration of the provisions of the Agreement in order to achieve certain hidden objectives. Today is the most present and dangerous so-called. a unitary concept, i.e. a concept that goes after integration and which is supported, and which is particularly dangerous, by one part of the international community. This concept is also uncritically supported by the International Commission for the Balkans, which, in particular, concerns us in Republika Srpska. And especially some NGOs, especially those who are preceded by the Crisis Group. The product of everything and the attempt to create so-called. Bosnia and Herzegovina's political nations are the result of a communist ideology and totalitarian arrangement of the earlier political system. Unfortunately, without it, it seems that we cannot and still slave for what happened in 1945 until 1992. The erosion of the Dayton Agreement is day-to-day, and it is, above all, the Republic of Serbia. All appears to be in favour of unitaryisation, road-political declarations, the Peace Implementation Council adopted in Sintra in May 1997 and the Implementation Council that the Declaration was brought to Bon in December 1997 and this last one in Luxembourg in the sixth month, therefore, this year. All these declarations, especially the luksemburški Declaration, are, in fact, all these decisions and conclusions, they only have and recommend that certain decisions be implemented. So they don't have the legislative power. However, we are in such a position that those apriors must, therefore, be carried out, that 25 of these conclusions and such decisions have Maltas not stronger power but the power of this parliament here. In this context, particularly worrying about the broad powers given to the High Representative, giving Bosnia and Herzegovina a lot of feeling of protectorate. The relevant factors in the international community are treating Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities in command, and the High Representative is increasingly performing as the forced manager of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the will of the international community, officials who choose or name their legitimate organs shall be replaced. There are no acceptable arguments justifying the broad powers and measures taken by the High Representative for which, according to the Dayton Agreement, Annex 10 absolutely does not have the authority. In addition, the political declarations adopted by the Implementation Committee cannot first be bound by the signatories of the Peace Agreement, especially when it is apparent that the commitments imposed by these political documents come out of the box of letters, therefore, not the spirit of the Dayton Agreement. In addition to the above, other types of infringement of the Dayton Agreement, such as the adoption of the so-called ‘Daiton Agreement’, appear. The Privatisation Act, which was passed by the High Representative, which is not in the wisdom of the joint institutions, and the entities, as far as I am aware to date, did not agree to its adoption. So you need to take it to have a temporary character. Then the expansion of public corporations. Even though it's aneks 8.. The dejtonski Dispute is intended as an obligation only to address corporations, so none other than a traffic corporation. The same situation is with unique traffic tables, so-called. transforming police forces, reducing the authority of entity institutions into informative blasts, forming radio and television broadcasting commissions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. All, therefore, represents one counter-act, as well as the introduction of a supervisor for state television, which all comes out, as I mentioned in advance, from the Dayton Agreement. So, from the proposed draft Madrid Declaration of the Peace Implementation Council, it also sets out to continue with certain proposals, to what I was talking about, therefore, further decommissioning the Dayton Agreement. Unfortunately, I didn't have a chance until today, I didn't even know there was any more annex on this draft, I didn't have a chance to see it and study it and give my opinion in front of the Radical Party of Republika Srpska about it. Anyway, about the behavior, it's absolutely unacceptable. So, it cannot be supported, because every further deviation from Dayton will lead to the destabilising of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what, indeed, no one wants, so in this sense we suggest that everything that falls away from Dejton should be left out in this draft, and everything that is already in the framework of the Dayton Peace Agreement, puts back into its framework, because only such a draft of this declaration can therefore contribute, indeed, to the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so, on the whole of the territory, we do the most optimally what we all really want and what remains foreseen by the Dayton Agreement. Mr. President, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u960	Thank you. Mr. Kadić is next. 26
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u961	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I will try to save some of my 10 minutes. In fact, a few days ago, in another post, I received a statement from the House of Human Rights that Albanian refugees from Kosovo are located in the factory, a temperature of 6 degrees Celsius and that something should be changed. In more than half of this building, the Assembly, or the House of Representatives, or the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is also at a temperature of about 6 degrees Celsius. It's obvious that in that first thing and in this other thing, something can change. In the process of adopting a law on asylum and refugees, namely immigration, we would then resolve, probably a good part of the problem for this country very important, and in the second, I strongly support a letter from the High Representative addressed to the Polish clubs seeking more effective work of the Assembly, i.e. the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which clearly states that this parliament should be some sort of important mirror of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the Madrid conference, regardless of all the restrictions Mr Prlić told us about, I expect him to confirm that Dejton is minimum for Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I'm concerned, the Dayton obligations are a minimum for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what's beyond that should be a fruit of consciousness for all of us here on the need for a common establishment and of those elements of the state or of our common life that we agree on. I hope that the revision, namely the inventory of previous conferences, will make the international community see which of these minimums has not yet been done, but that it will offer us visions of what we might have as an upgrade of Dejton. I don't want this to be seen as a desire to give greater powers, but it is doubtless that the time ahead will show that there are things that are not resolved in Dayton, which are in the general interest of all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we can reach. I also expect that there will be a shift of focus from entities to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the coming period and that, accordingly, there will be a stronger strengthening of the central, or joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I support that view with an effort to introduce the so-called Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders through the introduction of so-called border services, because one state is recognised by the borders among other things. When it comes to neighbors. It is clear that the European Union, or the Council of Europe, does not recognise the country's serious partners who have not arranged relations with their neighbours, but the foreign minister, here I am asking another question. Could Bosnia and Herzegovina be the thumb of neighbouring countries' policy to possibly not regulate relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to prevent it from European integration. As for the refugees and the displaced. I expect that the international community will strongly support the harmonisation of legal regulation across Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to facilitate the return of the refugee and displaced population. I also expect that it will go towards strengthening a political, economic and security environment in which a return can be made. In this respect, it is necessary to establish a regional approach to return, to give greater powers to SFOR and IPTF, as it has been shown that where SFOR has become more committed to return, that return has been more successful. Then, establish a stronger link between the RRTF group formed by the Office of the High Representative and Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels, and in terms of ensuring the right to return. 27 I support the adoption of a common or uniform return plan in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but not with the aim of extending the endless debate and eventually not reaching it. I propose that the deadline until when it is to be adopted and if not adopted, then the RRTF Action Plan should be put into effect as the operational plan under which it will be carried out. And when it comes to evading and displaced populations - I support the efforts to condition employment on the basis of multiethnic employment of returnees, and when it comes to contracts, i.e. the donations of the International Community to a specific region. And, finally, when it comes to Brcko, I must say that I expect clear messages from the International Community through the Madrid Declaration when it comes to Brcko. In fact, so far only 12.58% of the facilities owned by Bošnjak and Hrvat have been approved to return to the city of Brcko. That's approved, that's not back yet. I expect Brcko to be treated as a story about the return of a refugee or displaced person, but what I want to say for the end is: - I expect clear messages will be sent that Brcko is primarily a matter of peace and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or stability in the region, and that the International Community will lead activities in line with this fundamental objective. So, to preserve peace and stability throughout the region. Finally, I hope that the Madrid Conference will also be an inventory of the previously adopted and unimplemented conclusions, that it will give clear signals about what we should do in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am convinced that it will be a turning point for strengthening the Dayton obligations, many of which are not met, especially with regard to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are counted by the previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u962	Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u963	Brcko has already been mentioned several times during today and is always mentioned in Brcko, Brcko, Brcko - therefore, it is another proof of what I just claimed to be the erosion of the Dayton Agreement by someone really intentional and conscious, because in Article 5. Annex relating to arbitration for the Brcko area, point 1 literally states: “The parties agree with the binding arbitration for the disputed part of the border line between the entities in the Brcko area, which is marked on the map attached in this annex, which is never, at least I know, I was never able to see. So it's the disputed part of the border line between entities, not the city of Brcko. That's one thing. The second thing, the gentleman who previously discussed, mentioned a percentage of 12.7% when it comes to objects. All I know is that in Brcko the procedure is in progress and the procedure goes uninterrupted. However, I would ask the gentleman how many such objects have been returned to the owners of Mostar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u964	Mr. Branković.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u965	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, 28 Listening to the discussions of some previous debates, I feel obliged to say out loud what I feel as a subject of work, as a task to be done as an MP in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's House of Representatives. My election base is the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but my task is - therefore, my activities are in the legislative body of Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina - in the House of Representatives, according to the capacity and powers given, not in common, but in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Annex 4. The Dayton Constitution. So, that state capacity as set by Dejton, no less than that. And, finally, I would suggest that this House discuss two things that are very often extended here as some kind of acacia that wants to swallow someone, really take those views and be clear of what it is, that those who pay or advocate some sort of phenomenon of making inside Bosnia and Herzegovina and open that package and say what is meant by that and that we really adapt this lexis to all of us, because I appreciate that we still have that solemn statement that we gave and signed, signed on the same Dayton Constitution and that we should read it as it was written. As for the draft Madrid Declaration of the Peace Implementation Council, I listened carefully to Mr Šumaher and he made it clear that in democratic habits this paper is not a final document, but a draft and that it will respect everything this Parliament and other authorised institutions say as their opinions and their recommendations and I will say something concrete about these things. I am particularly pleased that the Madrid Conference indicates a new period in which everything that is going on in this country will be located within two limits. One limit value is self-sustainable peace, another limit value is only state and economy. And I appreciate that we, the people elected to the House of Representatives, need to clearly recognize our powers and our responsibilities for the realisation of those programmes and those tasks that are within the range of this self-sustainable peace and self-sustainable economy. This draft declaration, I think, should contain one very important provision, because it is in fact some kind of Council conclusion that works in continuity for several years and as usual, I think that the Council should identify itself on unrealised conclusions from its previous similar conferences in Bon, Luxembourg, Sintra and everything that has happened and adopted these declarations, it should certainly be at the beginning, because we need to know the views, the relationship of the Peace Implementation Council to those conclusions that it has previously reached, and it has not yet realised. The second thing I would like to point out is Chapter XII 1) which speaks of the rule of law. There should probably be a little more precise position, so the Peace Implementation Council should give its more concrete views on instruments for the implementation of state law through the harmonisation of the entity constitution. It certainly contributes to what the Council intends to implement, it is the rule of peace. In Part XII 2) where parallel structures are referred to within the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina - I don't know if this is the place, but I appreciate that one significant area in which this parallelism is most expressed by institutions, it is an area that belongs to the exclusive functions of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the functioning and establishment of common and international communications. It is an area of regulation, i.e. the realisation of the obligation under aneks IX to which the establishment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's public corporations is discussed, and it is known that the founders of these corporations are entities. We have one case of the first corporation that's forming, it's a Bosnian-Herzegovina railway public corporation and in terms of reviving that corporation already feels a legislative gap for 29 of the functioning of such an entity-based institution. I appreciate that in this chapter, where parallel institutions are spoken of, and parallel institutions are most expressed in the areas of public enterprises, Elektroprivreda, Post office, Railways and all others, it should take place and this area, because it certainly contributes to everything that means a self-sustainable economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u966	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u967	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished guests, distinguished MPs, if, after today's debate behind our backs, the children of the right class or students of the final year of the study were to receive the assignment to write after our presentation as they saw Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am convinced that we would have empty papers on the table. The impression is that the implementation of the Dayton Agreement and the development of democratic relations within the Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina in a verbal sense reached maximum, while those who today are racing to take a strong seat in the High Representative's wagon, profit and political donations, when they go home then give their own electoral training for a long time we will unfortunately be in this situation, because our choice is also the product of the real state of cooling the situation after the war that was waged in these areas. I am not surprised by this report that we received from the Council of Ministers, because there are neither ministers in the Council of Ministers nor we MPs, the product of our own personal will. We in this House are the product of the will of the people, the will of the citizens who chose us, and yet the ministers are chosen on this same principle. And, as long as Mr. Ibro Spahić and any other MP - I happen to say so, he will no longer hold to my presentation and to his views and views, but rather hold to the views of the high representatives, Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities will be in an unembarkable situation, we will create projects that will skillfully control the general state of poverty in these areas. So I ask that with much more attention we listen to each other and realize that this is the real state in which we are. I read, of course, in a hurry, these assessments of the Council of Ministers -- you see, when a man reads it, it would really be a shame to change such optimists. Form a 50% growth rate a year, a 25% employment rate a year, a 60% export rate a year, for five years to be in a $2.5,000 situation -- they can really be optimistic, fierce optimists, after the worst disaster that's ever happened in these areas. All these are estimates that are more a product of inability for ministers at the Council of Ministers to agree on anything, than this is based on any real assessment based on some valid data. The second thing, I don't think there's any valid argument for measuring the degree of capacity utilisation at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's an arbitrary assessment of the Council of Minsitarians. So I don't blame them -- people took out some kind of paper so we could have it on the table. The second thing is whether we are satisfied or not, and I think the next Council of Ministers, no matter how concise, until as long as these political relations are in this House, will not be able to work better. We'll have to figure out the actual state we're in. And to go, of course, by sacrificing -- not sacrificing, but simply having the possibility of each of us being interpreted in one way or another, here I think that Mr Prlić, as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, said one notor fact -- the truth. It turns out that the Peace Implementation Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina is essentially the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the High Representative is the executive authority of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 30 June or a significant corrective factor of the executive authority. We sacrifice in such a way that the International Community and on a healthy foot sometimes casts us for the reason that we are not ready at this time to look the truth into our eyes and until until until, naturally and logically, there is a strong tendency from certain parties to centralize what is not prescribed by the Constitution, so far, regardless of what the ruling political option is, it creates resistance to such a concept and leads to what we have essentially, and we are not ready to acknowledge, and that is Bosnia and Herzegovina composed of two equal entities and three equal peoples. Once we're ready to accept that truth formed by the Dayton Framework Agreement, we'll have fewer problems here. I am interested in why MPs did not receive Annex a) of this Declaration, which essentially has the same legal weight as the draft declaration. In this aneks, which I had a chance to read, there are far more imperative things than the draft declaration. So, as MPs, we cannot properly discuss what is ahead of us, and then the question arises what are essentially our conclusions, other than what we as MPs are today going to show representatives of the international community who is a good guy or who is the bad guy in this House. I do not think it is in vain that the Dayton Agreement called the Framework Agreement of Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this framework agreement can now contain many such and similar conferences, which essentially constitute a partial revision of the Dayton Agreement, which the entity's simple authority will not agree to, and I think we must also resolve such intentions. Here's to starting with the first request. A requirement to bring the entity's constitution into line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the recommendation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court. If there is a real lasting peace, if any good for the work of some ears says self-sustainable peace, then if we accept the Dayton dispute as a basic document which is not disputed, then for a time to work on building a degree of confidence and peace, we must put aside the demands every year for changing the entity's constitution, even if they would be logical, they would be the logical heaters of those political forces that will stretch that environment, as far as I know about harmonising the Constitution of Republika Srpska, i.e.. An entity constitution with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Venice Commission as a commission of legal experts, has interpreted it as a harmonised constitution. Requisition of the return to the correction of the entity's constitution, be convinced of the water's prominent division than it is now. It's not because it's what MP Nikola Špirić wants, or any MP from RS, but because it's the feeling of people living in the enters. The second thing is Annex A point 2. I'm talking about what you haven't read, it's said -- the advice believes that's what I'm saying to sacrifice that the international community is putting casts on our healthy legs is not the problem of treating the sick part, but on a healthy leg to put casts on us. The Council believes that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be able, if they wish to have a passport that confirms their BiH citizenship without imposing a defect of entity distinction. We've created a passing pattern in which we have a passport with the markings of entities. As far as I see citizens in the Republika Srpska and in the Federation do not resist these passports, this is a passing solution that must last for a while so that we do not have to explain to work on the fierce unitaryisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Even here, the recommendation goes, and it is said, that these passports should, as a rule, be cheaper than those for economic necessity, not hence the sincere commitment of citizens to follow the passport. There's no need, that's settled once, so let's go to the things we agree on. Furthermore, the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers that will make the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so decadently standing in Annex A, I must say that the 31st formation of a total of six ministries is a decade-long stand in Annex A, which includes finance, rightly, transportation and communication. These changes can, of course, be made, but we must also respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina which clearly prescribed the entity's jurisdiction, which will say about such a change must give consent to the Republika Srpska parliament. It's like an entity parliament. Avdo Čamapra, you're mad at me. Sorry, it's not Avdo. It's Mustafa cotton. The second thing in Annex, which is contrary to the Dayton Agreement, is a unique component of defence and border view through the common guard of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Annex A. point 4. BiH is standing in Europe like this – the Council calls for the final support of the common policy of security and the creation of a state dimension of defence as soon as possible before 1999. I ask you that as MPs, as responsible people, we can assess whether the introduction of such a dimension of defence will worsen the relationship and level of trust that is being built up without really answering that. Annex A, refugee two-return point. I think that in one category that has paid hard for all the events within this country and what happened again, there is something that has never been seen in the world before, Annex 7. The Dayton spontaneous forecasts four possible rights of that category of people, that is return, compensation of property, exchange of assets and everything else. It is not a questionable right of property at all, but in a way that creates a part of the international community and a part of the public within Bosnia and Herzegovina is about the most modern persecution of entering the XXI century. I'll try to explain. It wasn't here for five years that chocolates were shared for BiH citizens, but it was a fierce war discharge, how you would tell a mother in Sarajevo, Rasemi, who lost three sons to tell her that she needed to get back a Nikola and that she had to forget that it was logical, etc. How are you going to tell your mother in Predor who is also Kristina, who has lost three sons that it's logical that a Mustafa, let's say, comes by her house and forgets etc. Is that the humanity we offer to people who are the most often and most severely injured in this war? What I'm saying is that the basic obstacle to his return is that he's being advocated by some of the dejtonski disputers or the Bošnjak or the Srbin or the Hrvat. The division of Bosnia and Herzegovina agreed by leaders at that time at 49:52% is the biggest dam of return, creating the most intense psychological feeling for returnees, no matter how hard we try within the entity to create a lagosum to return. So, I propose that we go in this sense to strengthen the existence of a commission at the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will, on the basis of international donations, etc. To include all segments of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement where a citizen will be free to choose a place of life and have the possibility to make up for his property to those who want to return, of course, it is a fundamental and fundamental human right that no one can dispute it. So, there remains something that we don't support here as an MP, and I don't need forever to chew like ravens, that we're grateful to the international community for intervening in the signing of the Dayton Agreement, that there's been peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina's space, and that the fourth real factor is in these areas. A frequent beating of representatives of the international community outside the mandate offered by the Dayton Agreement cannot be supported in the interests of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entities of the Serbian and Federation Republic. 32 Sometimes, when it comes to the entity Republika Srpska, sometimes when it comes to the Federation, I think this parliament must simply say whether or not it agrees with the move. We do not support the extension of the authority of the High Representative even in that area where additional funds are required to work towards building the desired economic and political flows. These economic and political flows must be clear to Members of the Representative Council at least. I'd like it if we had a high representative, if we couldn't write it already, how does he see Bosnia and Herzegovina and two entities as part of the Dayton Sponzafum, and at least that as a platform to adopt. How do I know what the preferred political option of a high representative is? Who are his pets from political parties, who are undesirables, and whether a commission that predicts the behaviour of politicians within Bosnia and Herzegovina will contribute to building confidence. I think the politician in the entity, or RS and FbiH, is responsible to his electoral body unless he calls for violence and war. There's no other responsibility for a politician except to get results in the election or not. So his base will tell when there is, and when there is no, not anyone from the international community. If we agree to that, we will simply get into a situation where politicians in this area are being hunted like rabbits because of why the people gave them the mandate. We do not support the creation of an independent call committee similar to a Venice guy who will do this and sanction the behaviour of politicians, if we support this thesis we will continue to enter a situation of decommissioning what is called this and this home in which we are sitting. The reconstruction of the Council of Ministers in terms of how it is highlighted in Anex, which you have not read, I also do not support. There is something we particularly agree on, so there is something we cannot accept, or if it is even up to us, something that we agree on. The issue of resolving missing persons and prisoners within entities and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole after the end of the war must be brought to an end. It has been stressed both in the RS and in the FBiH, so the segment for the work of these people for the work of their families must be brought to an end. The efforts of the international community and the authorities within BiH entities towards further democratisation as a whole and we support and support, of course, the requirements for demilitarisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities. The demilitarisation will lead to the establishment of trust and lasting peace. No additional weapons or any projects of the international community that will strike any balance within us, if there is a moment of imbalance and distortion of balance and the need for it to come out, will unfortunately teach us generations for which we would not want to find ourselves in the same situation that we have derived from the torment and support of the international community after the signing of the Dayton Agreement. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u968	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Radenka Balta.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u969	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, 33 I am equally sorry that Mr. Šumaher left this room I would have a message for the international community, about everything we need from her, and about where we call her help. Helps who are and who has told us nicely Mr. Nikola Špirić last time can serve us until the moment when we don't feel capable enough and we'll take it when we need it, but basically if it helps us, it won't do us any good for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The assistance of an international community that Republika Srpska is not much and is not used to, I can tell you, most of it has been given throughout the Federation, I don't think it's going to help much in this situation if it leads to what we're going to do, but we're going to blackmail in one way or another. It doesn't make any sense. We've spoken or irritated our MPs, perhaps me personally, I'm a born Sarajka. We're talking about an unfortunate people in Brcko, gentlemen of Sarajevo is a big city, and I left the city that had hundreds of thousands of inhabitants. I had my name and last name and I was a citizen of this town. As much as you think Brcko is a lot of unhappy people, think that a lot of people who came here to be unhappy in that Brcko, where I'm lucky to say that all Srbin who stayed in Sarajevo can and return to the parameters that you're asking them to return to Brcko or other cities. Gentlemen, I'll tell you three years after Dayton the night before last I took out and waited for my friend who lived in Sarajevo in Hotonje and after three years after Dayton left Hotonj because she couldn't live. So we have to have the same instruments to bring back the refugees and the displaced. Annex VII bothers me terribly, and we all know when aneks vi is said to be the return of refugees and displaced, until the moment that the gentlemen of the International Community do not realize that SFOR's help in moving or moving into their part cannot help one side, and the other cannot help. There won't even be a solution to the problem. If we solve and if we say that there is or no militarization of Brcko or while we talk about the asylum of people who are supposed to get rid of this city in this country, and we don't solve those residents who were residents until '92 in this city, we're also not gonna be able to solve anything. Obviously, if one party or the other party is not mature in that way that they can respect both sides and seek the same for each other and respect these 14 RS MPs sitting there, there is no solution. I realized this high home that it would bring great changes in relation to each other, I am not going to limit the right and the tears of some mother, any one, because the tears of mother is equally strong on both sides, I am not going back to that period, but if we talk about the Madrid Conference, message or debate on the Madrid conference may be on the subject, if we say we look equally equal to all the peoples, both BiH entities, and that we are not constantly ugly among ourselves to say this entity, or this one is either pure or it is not complete for someone. The fact is that she is BiH and that we are not discussing now, that all MPs are now coming back to whether or not she is. Yes, with two entities and three equal peoples. So let's not put a little work into this Parliament when we have to discuss one of these things and go back to what point of the agenda, to keep going back to someone else who binds each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u970	Thank you. The replicas usually last up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u971	There's no need for your advice. Mr. Chairman, I congratulate you on your choice last time as President of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that here it is trying to affirm one principle that BiH is made up of two equal entities and three equal peoples or that it is less spoken of as existential. I must remind you that both in the Constitution and in the letter and in the spirit of the Constitution, it is made up of all equal citizens of BiH, there are Jevrej there are Roma, there are Albanac, there are Austrijanac, Slovenac, Njemac in BiH, and there are people who are just Bosnians and they're not threatening anything. So I would ask you if you were so insistent on this division of clear terms of the spirit and letters of the Constitution that you would still be inspired by the universal declaration of human rights about which it was wonderful speech today in the words of Mr. Bogić Bogičević, and I will remind you of another simple thing, when mentioned by Mr. Špirić, he did so so that I did not have the need for replication, but now that I have listened carefully to what needs to be confirmed in some way in his positions of Parliament and relations with BiH, I also needed to say something about the citizens of BiH whose same rights I hope that after this there is neither in the spirit of the Dayton Constitution nor any need for replication.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u972	Thank you, Mr Spahić. čaršimamoviti.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u973	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank Mr. Špirić for saying something that I didn't have the opportunity to read, so he'll give me a chance now and I'll be a good guy. Namely, he said we were treating a healthy leg, that we should have one passport in BiH, I support it, if that's what it says there, and I want to be a good guy. I'm only saying this to tell Mr. Špirić that all of us MPs have the right to reason. And that opinion consists of agreeing on certain things and supporting what the international community says. Not to argue with our constituents. What I would like to say before many came out is, in fact, the essence of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. I think that part of the discussion is much more important now than it was at the beginning when he answered. We need institutions to maintain self-sustainable peace. Institutions that will be guaranteed and an instrument to create peace, democracy and rights in BiH. For this reason, I propose that this Madrid document should include strengthening existing institutions, institutions that are listed in the BiH Constitution, such as the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Central Bank, etc. I would particularly point out to the Council of Ministers because it is in principle an executive body, that through the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, the number of ministries is increased so that they can work more effectively in a scale with their responsibilities. Especially when it comes to freedom of movement of people, goods, information, etc. and especially when it comes to integration in Europe. Normally, the work of the Council of Ministers with the Constitution of BiH should be removed, and I am particularly referring to the constitutional role of the Council of Ministers' Presidents, the number of deputy ministers and their function. In addition to these numerous institutions, however, the Constitution of BiH did not exclude the existence of other institutions, as BiH's much wider jurisdiction is rather than what is given in the jurisdiction of these numbered institutions. That is why I believe it is necessary to bring in Madrid some document in which it will be about the formation of institutions that are not counted in the Constitution. First of all, I think of several institutions that are listed in the White Paper of Doctor 35 Silajdzic, such as the state archive, such as statistics, such as the Standardisation Institute, all that unites the conditions of life in BiH, whether it is done in one way or another or as someone sees it. I would especially point out the formation of public corporations and I would say that in Annex 9 it stands in the plural, so these are public corporations, not one public corporation. A lot of fellow Branković said about these public corporations, but I think it should be specifically mentioned by public corporations in the areas of transport, telecommunications, post office and information, as it stands in this broadcast plan, because we now have a situation to see the transfer of this assembly in only one part of BiH. If we had a joint corporation, this transmission would see everyone in BiH at the same time, I think it's important. There's something else I'd like to encourage. The formation of these corporations, these public corporations should neither be nor should they be, regardless of how counterparts Rakić and Deretić see BiH, should not be on the principle that it is written in the draft, on the principle of a joint inter-entity corporation, because this by the cabular used here has the implications of a co-ordination function. However, these corporations should be built on the basis of independent institutions that have, in their work cycle, what is in the original competence of BiH and I will only say what I may know a little better in the area of telecommunications that are common and international communications and that entities freely transfer what they want to those corporations. In this way we will create BiH and as someone sees it, it probably writes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u974	Next reported is Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u975	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, distinguished guests. You say you want BiH. As you will, then you must show mutual understanding and tolerance. Speaking of human rights earlier, you said nicely that human rights should be respected. The basic human right is the right to choice and freedom of choice. Annex 7 of the Dayton Peace Agreement implies the right to return to live in an environment in which they lived before the same right to exchange property and to sell property, compensation. We in RS have shown good will, especially in the city of Brcko to allow first right, right to return. That it's true speaks back about 5,000 Hesrian population to the Brcko municipality. Now show you a good will to help, if you want the non-Serb population to continue to return to our area to allow the Serb population in the city of Brcko as well as all other areas of RS to exercise their right to choose. I mean, don't abuse our good will, but help us also allow those people who want to stay to live where they feel free to live in peace and prosperity, to make it right and allow them to use it. A survey was conducted on the premises of the city of Brcko, 95% of the residents said they did not want to, because they are afraid, to return to the area from which it was expelled. About 10,000 people in Brcko are former citizens of Serbian Sarajevo, more than 10,000 are residents from the area of the municipality of Jajca and there are about 10,000 others from nearby municipalities around the city of Brcko, and they all expressed their will and desire to live there because they can no longer tolerate villages and life in conditions that are not worthy of man. Then let's make it possible for BiH level friends to find the means to get rid of those people who are currently in homes that aren't theirs or apartments whose tenants' rights are those who want to come back, to get rid of them first they want. All we respect is the will of these people. That's how we'll have BiH. We can't have it if we insist on one nation's device, a right that 36 goes to the harm of another people. That's what we had until '91, and that led us as far as it got us. I hope we learned a lesson from that and it won't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u976	Thank you. Abdurahman Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u977	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, representatives or MPs, respected guests. I hope that the Madrid Conference will, or the Peace Implementation Council in BiH will respect certain remarks in an act called the Madrid Declaration. I will give my suggestions for the Implementation Council on return, demand for captured and missing implementation of the municipal elections, a refugee, or a pro-region issue should have a basic regulation at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which must not bring the principle of volunteering, because the life of citizens must be based on general civil rights rather than on the right to belong to an ethnic group. I believe that a more massive return will be made to bring the entity's constitution into line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the realisation of the Bosnian agreement, which determines the consistency of three Bosnian-Herzegovina peoples across its territory as states and in both entities. Not in any way prejudiced by the independence and independence of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina before which the procedure is conducted and on this matter, I believe that this must be further and more specifically declared by the Implementation Council and set a time limit for the implementation of the same. The return of Knin Srbin to Croatia will further facilitate a multi-way return to Bosnia and Herzegovina. True, the captured and missing persons are looking for a much greater engagement of the International Community and its organisations and representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Banished citizens of Podrinja and Srebrenica are seeking satisfaction with truth and justice for everything that has happened and happened around and within the protected zone of the UN of Srebrenica and Žepa. There has yet to be no punishment for the executioners on the orders of genocide against Bošnjak, as many on the conscience of humanity in the protected zone of Srebrenica and Zepa. And these days we are witnessing that the bones of innocent victims of mass graves are being harassed again, by moving them to secondary smaller graves and destruction, to show that there was no genocide or that it was shrinking. People wonder again, will anyone answer for this? Who and when? We Podrinjac, especially the Srebrenčanin, are not satisfied with the way, i.e. in the approach of the International Community exhumation and identification. We're witnessing that it's exhumed, by the pyric occupation of Srebrenica and, above all, about 1,500 people. And we all know there are 12,000 missing persons there. We are also looking for a higher degree of exhumation before the Madrid conference to see clearly what is the number of innocently injured Bošnjak during the occupation of Srebrenica and Zepa. The inclusion of municipal election results in Srebrenica and almost other municipalities of Podrinj, where the Bošnjak were mostly not carried out in accordance with the results achieved and on Srebrenica and the arbitration decisions of the High Representative and Head of the OSCE Mission were not realised until what was written on paper. No official meeting of the interim Executive Board on the arbitration ruling has been held. With full right, exiled citizens ask the question of the purpose of choice and of the one to whom they have given the amendment to implement them, as well as those who have been obliged to implement them, as well as those who are obliged to implement the Dayton Agreement. A question of demilitarisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was mentioned here. The demilitarisation will not be directed if the environment is demilitarized, and the demilitarisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we were demilitarized before this aggression and we saw what happened to the Bošnjak. I have to rely on the concept of a common state. In my opinion, the notion of a common state means that it is someone's property of two or three or more, not the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- not the common state but the state of BiH consisted of two multiethnic entities, not the ownership of two entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u978	Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will speak first as a member of the Council of Ministers, so I would say that it was not correct, from MPs who I don't see here now, that the Council of Ministers is mandated to submit reports when the Council of Ministers, as you know, offered this report and put it in the regular procedure. So, because of some marketing, it's not correct, it's not right, and that's how to disavuate the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers offered it. So, the report also shows what the Council of Ministers has been up to now. Now, in order to include what is possible in the decisions of the International Community making decisions for us, that is the situation it is. So that's why I said it. It should be observed in continuity. We didn't remember the Madrid conference two months ago. We knew that she was coming early, we were working on as much as we could, we did what we could and, therefore, we felt that it was quite enough today to submit material rather than report, so it was requested in your letter - material in the letter of Mr. Chairman, although it was not the conclusion of this assembly. We still filed the material on six pages, and I don't know what's wrong with that number six page. Who signed how long it takes for the page to be 8, 12, 16, so we know about the second time. So such a relationship with the Council of Ministers is not constructive and it is not right. We offered the Report, we offered the material, you heard Mr. Šumaher - we worked on it continuously, we know that the madridski Conference is important, we know that decisions are made by the International Community, we don't want to fool ourselves and, of course, we're as responsible as we could agree, is as much as you can agree here - so much we can agree. I think we've gone a little further than that. I would now, if I may, say something as an MP. This is the president of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Party. You see, this report, this Madrid paper will be held... (short-cutting) and our task. So, the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina - integrity, sovereignty, etc. On 14 April 1996, we started a campaign to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders and this campaign of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina continues to date and we will have protected borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina that will serve all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today we hear, the opposition complains that we should talk about the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have been talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders for a very long time, it is the story of Bosnia and Herzegovina's maritime borders, and what you will see in this aneks and material is the result of the work of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose president and other parties are for the baseline and Hrecegovina. Likewise, when it comes to legal reform, gentlemen, this is what 38 do: We have been insisting on it for a very long time, believing that there is no democracy without legal reform of the judicial system, an independent judicial system in 13/3 Bosnia and Herzegovina. We thought of that today. This is the material I'm talking about, and there are a lot of such materials that I can bring to you. I am pleased that today Mr. Bogičević was talking about human rights - marking the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We didn't think of that either today. This is the draft of the law, because we did not agree in the Council of Ministers on this, now to speak - I repeat, as MP and president of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the draft law, as the implementation of the International Human Rights Treaty in February-January 1998. We remembered him today. So, what you will see in the Madrid document, as I said, is the results of the action so far, not from two months ago, but from two years of action -- as I speak as an MP, I have the right to say from work, from the moment the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina began from April 1996 to today. That's your score, and that's how it works for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I guess that's our job, too, since we're a party to Bosnia and Herzegovina and no amount of exposure to this pay phone and speech will cover the fact that some parties simply skipped that period and therefore, for example, my actions called don Kiotski were alone. Unfortunately, I don't see much of a coalition -- the right to tell you today or here, they're gone, I guess they have more important things to do than this. I appreciate it. Allow me, Mr. Deretić's statement - my colleague here in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament - because the problems and differences we have, the open issues we have, I do not want to transfer cosmetically, marketingly to the Council of Ministers, because he knows very well that the Council of Ministers is doing as much as possible and that it images a more or less political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, my real political conversation is with Mr. Deretić, because we are very different, but I appreciate his openness. Such a conversation should be held in Parliament here. So, the conversation is between us. I won't have more time for political cosmetics here -- transferring to the Council of Ministers of Problems. This Law on Human Rights, etc. And other laws, this is what we did. What we failed as a party for Bosnia and Herzegovina and as a Coalition, it is because we had on the other hand people who simply believe it is not the Dayton Agreement, interpreting it in a different way, as Mr Deretić very restrictive in my opinion. When it lists the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina from Annex 7, which we are talking about, we should have the Ministry of Exorcised Persons and displaced persons at the very least. That means it, Annex 7 means it. All interventions are state-level. Look at that board in Annex 7, when the authorities are lifted, they're returning to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We should've at least had that ministry. So, in the year of our return, we don't have a return law, we don't have an exile and refugee ministry, not because I won't, but because there are political forces that think differently. I appreciate their open statement here when it comes to unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina. From what I understand, Mr. Deretić went outside the Radical Party, if I'm right. So, the Radical Party, the one I know, whose program I've been reading, has the concept of a unitary state, if I'm right. Not for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for the unitary states in their political programme. I've got it at home, Mr. Deretić, if you haven't changed it in the meantime. I read the Serbian Radical Party program. [[Deretic talks - That's a big difference]] I respect your remarks I have read the programme, the Serbian Radical 39 parties, respect your remarks. As far as it's concerned, it's okay, I know that this radical party has a political programme, this political programme is a pure unitary state, an absolute unitary state, a one-home parliament, etc. and I understand that it's what people want and it's probably good in some countries to apply, etc. However, Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, is not unitary in that sense, I mean. To be clear, Dejton is who he is, but it is a state, and that's what it says. I can't interpret something, but as it says, I can't go restrictively in that interpretation to that extent to say that it's not a state now or to add to my parentheses, to say that it's a common state, it doesn't say that. It is, of course, if you think about all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the state of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is not common in terms of cadestret, which is the concept that we will hear about the future, because there is, how there is an annex that you disagree with, so there are circles of enex, which we disagree with, because I know that this concept is waiting for us and that we will talk about the common state, etc. It's about that cadity first. When you're instructed, I'm talking to you, because I'm taking you as a political representative with whom I have problems. I appreciate your openness again. When you were talking about privatisation, you know that I insisted on it, without participation, difficulty, some other parties here who also skipped that period and didn't absolutely participate in it, nor supported me. I repeat myself. Here's why. Because the law protects every Bosnian-Herzegovina Peasant, each in every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and gives it the same rights. I'm glad you got out a little while ago and told me we had to go home on equal terms and I say we have to. No matter what they have two entities, three peoples, gentlemen, and two entities and these three peoples and other citizens, as Spahić said well, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to have everyone, first of all, behave like that, but it is not possible so far. They all need these laws, so they can be three entities, they can be four entities, but they all need laws, gentlemen, and all the peoples need the same laws. One day when I'm against having everyone live up to the same right, then someone can come to me and tell me you sir are making discrimination, but I took that privatisation law as my duty simply, here's why. Because it's over a million people or up to a million people, of course it's good to watch and it hurts, because right now I'm speaking as an MP, the problem is that you're looking at what you're looking at, and I don't know again whether you've been here with any kind of exposure, any amount of speech on this stage, but it won't be able to erase the fact that you've skipped an entire page and now you're trying to fix it with some kind of cosmetic policy approach. You won't be able to fix that. Now, please, the Privatisation Act protects all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on the entity of Republika Srpska, has discriminated against millions of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you know it very well, and that is why it has been abolished. That's why he's been suspended. If that law I suggested skips someone, doesn't skip anyone. Therefore, it is for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why so much resistance to laws at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, explain it to me. I'm talking to you, you're my political opponents, and we need to talk in one parliament. Why so much resistance to that? Is it resistance to resistance? And let's sit down and talk. I am here to dedicate one session to Parliament and sit down and talk. Why this resistance, whether it's resistance to resistance, is it a psychological barrier? No one's unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, but Bosnia and Herzegovina's normal state should live in. Those boundaries I've been talking about, why I've been insisting on boundaries since April 1996, I've only talked about them. So now you see that smuggling cannot be controlled without it, for every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think 40 of them are useful to all of us, and I'm looking at it that way, if it isn't, then come out and let's talk, it's Madrid. One more thing. To say one more thing, Ambassador Lagumdžija has asked a question of responsibility, who is unable to bear responsibility, let him leave it to others. The voters thought we could, and here I can bear responsibility, which is why they gave me confidence. There's a little detail that's here now, right in progress. You were talking about social problems, throwing out windows, etc. Which I get very well. Soon, if not today, a full agreement will be concluded, let's say, which addresses the issue of Zenica Zenica. So it wasn't a pre-election bluff. You have a situation that four-five thousand people tomorrow will have an average salary of cca 500 marks and I said if it doesn't, gentlemen, I'll resign. If you remember in pre-election activity. And I'm still saying today, if it isn't, I'll resign. The problem with those who thought it wouldn't be, is that it would be. That's their problem. Tomorrow I'm ready, given Željezar Zenica to do the same thing however they can connect to Ljubija, for me the other entity is Bosnia and Herzegovina. IUčinić do everything in my power to make roads as far as I can from this position, to open factories without discrimination, because it's in my interest, my political option is Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, so much responsibility, if one politician says he's ready for one project, if he doesn't resign, I don't think he can say more about political responsibility. So tomorrow you'll see finally tied to Slovenia signing the contract on Zenica, so I won't resign.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u980	Thank you, Mr. Silajdžić. There's a replica of Deretić, Lagumdžija. Two replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u981	I will, Mr. President, very briefly replicate the previous speaker who literally stated that he appreciates me as a party representative with whom he has problems. It's really unclear in what context Mr Silajdžić said. I only realize that I am a representative of a party that I think absolutely differently than Mr. Silajdžić thinks, and if it wasn't, probably the two of us wouldn't have found ourselves here. That's one thing. On the other hand, I absolutely support the part of the speech relating to Mr Silajdžić's pledge, I am now speaking as a member of the Council of Ministers, about putting in office Željezare Zenica and in this context of the iron ore mine Ljubije, because I know the situation, I encourage from Prijedor, and in any case I will be at the benefit of the absolute people from one and the other inter-entity lines. But I would only briefly refer to the constitution if there were terrible obstructions when it comes to the adoption of laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And again about the term of intrinsics. You have to understand, when I say, I don't mean Mr Silajdžić specifically, but all people who think the same thing, that in Republika Srpska, or part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was then controlled by Serb forces, it was 9th and 10th, I think it was 11. In 1991, a jean referendum was conducted, and in that referendum, citizens of Serbian nationality literally declared what they wanted. So there was a question of a self-determination and the results were known to this referendum. After that, two to 41 recognitions of Bosnia and Herzegovina came immediately, and unfortunately, we all know what followed. From what's happened in Bashcharshi, Prijedor, etc. etc. and civil war. It is, indeed, one evil and certainly no normal man can use it nor do I think of this moment to use those allegations for some political marketing, but I just want to say one sequence that has happened and brought to us here who are sitting here, therefore, representatives of all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are, indeed, still, because Mr Špirić just before said too little time has passed so that we can get over some things. The discussion of a distinguished fellow MP, I don't know what his name is at the lady or lady sitting, who he's been discussing, has indeed been pulled under the mockery of the last assembly of the issue of Srebrenica, victims of mass excavations. Well, sir, you know what happens in Sarajevo these days, and that's why someone has to answer, I absolutely agree with you that they should answer who committed the most monstrous crimes on the civilian population, you know, but we can't go from one side to one side, we can't mention just one city, and we can't mention another, not to mention evil, not to mention the events there in the western region, etc. etc. Therefore, in this context, I would absolutely join those fellow MPs who, indeed, in each of their discussions, seek to be correct enough and that, indeed, the arches are at least approximately identical. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u982	Mr. Lagumdžija. So it's not Mr. Lagumdji. It's not Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u983	I'm sorry, Mr. Deretić, I'm sorry I didn't mention Bratunac, victims of Bosniak, speaker, Predor and other places, and also if there were genocide elements in Sarajevo, why didn't I mention them. But first of all, Bratunac, Zvornik, Prijedor and other places.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u984	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u985	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that in no way would I want to continue this debate that with further replicas that will take us nowhere. I'm only obliged to say a few words about the false, claims that have nothing to do with life, which are ultimately offensive to the political party I come from. Insulting for the game I represent, the SDP. To say that we have skipped as a party any period of struggle for the border of a normal Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact that we didn't seem to be fighting for the same Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's another problem, but as time goes on, it seems to me that there are several different Bosnia and Herzegovinas that are floating and we can't agree on what they are, what they are, where they are and who are in charge of what they are. I can only tell you that as far as the political party I come from, no one has the exclusive right to own anything that is the heritage of the people to whom it belongs, 42 and no political party, no single individual, no coalition. So that the amount of going out on the phone isn't a measure of patriotism, and even more sense, I'll cut it short. We do not dispute, esteemed colleagues who have won more votes than us in the elections that you have received and that you have the right to negotiate, agree and lead the government, this country, entity one, the other, peoples etc. We do not dispute that, we have congratulated you, and we do not allow anyone to speak exclusively on behalf of any nation in this country, without having in mind that there are members of the party that I belong to and MPs in this Parliament and across Bosnia and Herzegovina members of every people and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You'd also be praying that no misunderstanding would come tomorrow, about this Ironworks. 'Cause that's maybe the biggest thing we talked about today. There's a lot of rhetoric here that won't get any results, but it's about the ironworks and it's about, as I've now heard if I'm corrected, about some four five thousand people who will have 400, 500 marks of pay. I want it to be here from this pay phone. I, my colleague Silajdžić, will congratulate you, to you, to the leadership of the Ironworks, in advance, to congratulate you, bravo, for what you have accomplished. I'd just like those four, five thousand a human beings to have that 400, 500 marks salary not for this payphone, but in their lives, as I've heard today. Today something was signed, what was signed half a year ago, before the elections was signed, and then it was said that by the end of the year to be realised, so you said, I didn't drag you by the tongue, say that by the spring of March, you'd start it again and that it was all over. Your coalition colleagues are now informing us that it will be New Year's Eve, that one there. I'm not going in at all about, when time will show. I wish you wouldn't resign for Ironworks. I'd believe it, I'd be happiest if what you just said was that tomorrow people start going there and these 5,000 people go for the 500 marks they've earned. And I want to make it very clear that there would be no manipulation after that if you had promised something, so now we do something, not Bog save it. It's our wish that as much as tomorrow as you said you signed today, it's our reality. And if tomorrow, really, these people go over there and get those papers, I'll immediately suggest that in front of our party tomorrow they get a mandate for whatever you want. I see you have a party, but since your party often doesn't know each other, when you're talking about my party, I don't often know what kind of Bosnia and Herzegovina you're talking about. Then we often have communication problems, I guess. Because it seems that your Bosnia and Herzegovina, our Bosnia and Herzegovina, is, unfortunately, different. But we have a framework that's been assigned to us all and... easy for us all. So, I repeat to Željezar Zenica, my congratulations to you and your team for saying that it's signed today, that tomorrow will go, and don't ask me for spring and don't explain to me what you said, but do, pull out the concoctions, but not because of the ironworks, but get these 15 days of sequencing out of what we're all together, try to do after this Madrid, so this really isn't an empty rhetoric and promise from this pay phone. I repeat, Mr. Silajdžić, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't take, don't take, don't take, don't, don't take. Neither I will take it from you, nor from anyone in this room, nor from fighting for democracy, nor from fighting for my people, nor from fighting for, as my colleague said very nicely, for one country, for two entities equal, for three equal constituent peoples and, unfortunately, four million unhappy citizens of Ibri, four million. 43 For every one of us, don’t put us down here; we are not bears, so that we may sleep over, or we may pass over, and when you wake up in the spring, I would like for the workers of Zeljezara to meet you there, for three more months, biting those 500 marks and five thousand. Keep in mind that's two and a half million dollars or marks, it's not small money.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u986	Thank you. There's a replica. I just want to take the opportunity to thank Lagumdžija for wanting the good of the Irons and to thank Mr Silajdžić for what he does for Jeljezar. There's a replica, Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u987	Thank you. Tell me how there are coalitions, even though there's someone here, there's enough of us, right? So, let me repeat about the Željezar Man, today we're done with the deal, tomorrow they're signed. I mean, on average, I'm paid to know what I'm talking about, on average, the pay, the technology when it comes to life, I wrote it and signed Mr. Lagumdžija, and I said, "I'm behind it, I'm behind the resignation." I'm not taking away your party's right. You've taken the right to help us build the entire of Bosnia and Herzegovina that I believe in. These draft laws I showed you, which we initiated, and not you, show me what Bosnia and Herzegovina we want. I'm quite clear again, I don't want to deal with marketing and cosmetics anymore, I'm going to talk to people with whom I have those serious political problems, and that's the interpretation of the Dayton Agreement, whether Bosnia is one, a single country, or, as the confederacy, the Federation, is something unspecified, that's the first problem. That's the real problem. One more thing about Željezar Zenica, Mr. Deretić is already talking to Ljubija. So what Genjac says, we do it, and others want it and that's it. I thank you for your congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u988	Replica one has. So, Mr. Tokić, so Mr. Špirić and Mr. Spahić, these are three replicas and we have three other debaters.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u989	Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, I can understand the self-centered self-center of all politicians, but indeed, I cannot understand this degree of indifference to be in the grip of the Madrid conference waving which with any resignations. As for Silajdzic's move and resignations, like that, I only resign once, so the resignations, people who are upset about it, I don't know if Izetbegović is upset about it or someone in the CD coalition, but I am asking you, as an MP for this high house, what are you resigning to? You're the co-chair of the Council of Ministers who've already been asked to be relieved of their duties. As someone said in this room, what elemental procedure of democracy should we observe through reporting what you've done. Next, not wanting to open up here on this agenda point. You, like many people who swear to Bosnia and Herzegovina, are willing to do anything else, just not do their 44 jobs. You Morte to explain to me a little what's become of you as the co-chair of the Council of Ministers, from your post it has been suggested that you deal with the question of Željezara Zenica, not Bičakčić. And what the Zelezare Zenica, that is, not those Ironworks in Ljubia or something else. You obviously carry here a permanent kind of privatisation of the state and the function you transferred from the war. I ask you and the chairman, please, on the subject of preparation for the Madrid conference, to resign a potential resignation, by waving a resignation that has become popular. Here, now for the arbitration of Brcko. The people who signed the arbitration for Brcko signed it. I accept the arbitration of Brcko. Now they're denying arbitration, waving the resignation, we're resigning, if there's no way some people would want to make a decision on Brcko. This kind of political immatureness should not appear in this home. And I ask you, here when you are discussing, that you are in principle discussing as co-chair of the Council of Ministers and that you are discussing it as an MP, that waving, jumping off the topic, making out of this fair, is not much like you, and especially not the chairman who has prepared quite seriously in this session and in this context and the congratulatory which Spahić gave, has been quite well founded. I beg you to lead the Assembly, the resignation, the potential, who knows which time spoken, promised, who knows for what reasons, is not the subject to be analysed and discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u990	I'm obliged to explain. So, a question of responsibility has been put in place and, in the context of political agreement and senses of political responsibility, the debate has been initiated and, of course, if we allow the MP once to state his position, all MPs must have the opportunity to state their position. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u991	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to get this situation somehow, we from Rekpbuliek Srpske to help you finish, to have a point of the agenda and greet each session, and it looks like people rarely see each other, so I suggest a new agenda point in order to either get serious or to relax the ambience a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u992	Thank you. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u993	I have long practiced in principle how to replicate, not directly, but to wait to see if there is a conclusion in this democratic ambiance of Parliament on BiH. One more thing that would directly react to words that implement practically something in this House's assembly, which doesn't make any sense. What we heard an hour ago, 25 minutes ago. We heard from Mr. Deretić in one of the replicas that Bosnia and Herzegovina believed it was a civil war. There is no such finding regarding Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This Parliament cannot accept it in any way as the basis for its action, as we must review our action in the future regarding integration in Europe, 45 liked to at least respect what is called the General Peace Agreement and not the General Agreement for Peace, there is a big difference, not only in the construction of a sentence, but also in what came as a consequence of, let's say, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina being one of the annexes of the General Peace Agreement. That's the first thing. So I don't take it as an allocation, if there's an open debate, then we'll discuss it. The second thing, I do not accept that there is an uninterrupted lecture here on the position of good and bad guys, and that someone approves and approves of someone's approach, and I do not like these examples by international communities and domestic these newly produced, newly-composed, nominated ny their way of political glimmer which seem to forget the elemental fact that by 2002 all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are directly related to the international community, which has a concretely clear definition in the General Peace Agreement. It would be good for those who perform certain functions in the government and those who take care of their responsibility for their actions, for example as MPs, in this case, to take care of the content of the General Peace Agreement and of the time until it is foreseen that central institutions, will include the Central Bank, different courts, etc. The High Representative, with all responsibilities for the implementation of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is up to that period. And third, it is obvious that the key to our serious conversation, democratic conversation, within the country and foreign policy, is one economic review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's future. And it's not that there are the most bile polemics, no matter what political options they come from. That's why I think it would be good to concentrate on meeting Madrid on what's most important there, and that's how to get a real chance for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this case, they are, first of all, their own, first of all, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. No one can match them, not even Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u994	Thank you. Mrs. Čolo. Another replica, Mr. Deretić, and the next debater is Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u995	Replica only on fellow Spahić's discussion that he disagreed with my finding that from 1992 to 1996, until the signing of the Dayton Agreement, in the area of the former Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was a civil war, not only civil war, but it was a purely religious and ethnic war, on the one hand, and I am especially replicating the part where Mr Spahić gives himself the right to, without a pardon, say this parliament cannot accept, Mr Spahić, on behalf of the whole, I do not know 42 MPs in the House of Representatives to represent such a thesis. I allow him to represent such a thesis when it comes to MPs from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and certainly not MPs from Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u996	First, the Peace Agreement was not signed in 1996 but in 1995, and it was ratified and finally signed in Paris, as is well known. However, it is important that this Parliament has facts. Secondly, as for the character of war -- I said that the character of our future is a battle for a different economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and different relations between us. 46 I did not say to call on behalf of all MPs on behalf of the interpretation of the character of war or not. I only said if someone had the pretense to keep it quiet and accepted the minutes, since this is a state institution of special importance, I could not accept it personally, and I hope that the other members would well examine the religious history in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why we are prepared next year to work on the processes that will bring together the Americas of the Commission for Reconciliation, the truth and the regulation of some relations between us on what I spoke about at the beginning when I called on the entire Parliament to take the initiative itself in this regard, not to scrutinise the past too much, but to seriously deal with the one who is coming. And there's either a chance for Bosnia and Herzegovina or a new misery for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I think we should pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u997	Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u998	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will return to the Declaration. I think it is one of the basic objectives of the Madrid Declaration of Rule of Law and the International Community has specified how it plans to achieve this in the coming period. It is the establishment of a multiethnic, independent and impartial judiciary in accordance with the UN Resolution, then strengthening the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court and establishing judicial institutions at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then creating a multi-ethnic prosesional police and strengthening human rights institutions. As regards the establishment of these judicial institutions at the level of the state, I would like to express my opinion that it is necessary at the level of the state to establish - to establish a court of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to adopt a Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would define the powers of that court, and above all I think it is necessary for that court to resolve certain conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in different entities, to resolve administrative disputes at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, means that it provides legal protection against administrative acts brought by state authorities such as the Council of Ministers and other competent authorities. Now we don't have any institutions to protect against final administrative acts. In addition, this court should ensure the protection of guarantee rights to international conventions, in particular the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. However, if a court of Bosnia and Herzegovina is established, it is necessary to establish this judicial system as a whole, meaning to define and prosecute the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will act before the competent court, and also to establish the BiH State's Attorney General, because if the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has its property, then that property should be subject to our positive regulations to protect the competent defence. Moreover, the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina stems from the regulation of criminal law. We have no criminal law at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Recently, the Federation passed its Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law. However, works that would protect the highest national values are not contained in this Law. We don't really have a crime until we cross the state border, now we don't have it defined, and you know that every day there are trucks of goods being smuggled across the border, now they can get across the state border any way they want. The work was not defined at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, this criminal law, in my opinion, should regulate some acts that protect the highest national values, such as the protection of the constitutional order of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is now not protected by anything. Then, some of the acts attributed to international conventions, such as the use of nuclear energy, crimes against humanity and international law and all other crimes that should be at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe Republika Srpska also has its own criminal law, the Federation has its own. However, we must have the criminal law of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which exceeds the powers, so it comes out of Article 3 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The adoption of criminal law also requires the adoption of a law on criminal proceedings that would regulate the issue of legal proceedings in the proceedings between courts from individual entities. We recently had one material -- a memorandum of permanent assistance between entities. The memorandum could not oblige courts if signed by the justice ministers of both entities, but should raise the issues to the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, means the issue of legal proceedings, co-operation, when hearings blamed in one and another entity, witnesses, etc. that we have that question uniformly regulated. With regard to the establishment of the rule of law, another important place is the strengthening of the central institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as stated in the Madrid Declaration. It means the adoption of the Council of Ministers' Law, but to settle other issues. It is necessary to adopt, above all, the Law of Administration, which would define certain competences of the state apparatus at the level of the state and we have certain administrative services at the level of the state which does not have a law defining their structure, their jurisdiction and their competences. So, at the state level, we also regulate these issues so that in the coming period we can implement this principle that the International Community stands for, and that is the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u999	Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1000	Ladies and gentlemen, here, for a few hours now, there's one point on the agenda of the Madrid Declaration. I dare say, unfortunately, it was the least we could talk about. At the very beginning, putting this point on the agenda, we heard here the two most responsible people who are diametrically opposite. One was said by Mr Jadranko Prlić, the foreign minister of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who is about to express the thought that there in Madrid we can't capitalise on the Declaration, so on this draft. The second thought was given by Mr. Šumaher and he said it was a draft, it was a work material and he even recommended that we influence the elements of that draft, change it, agree on it, agree on it, etc. That. Since then, I've always wondered which thought to define, what should I do? My heart would wish Mr. Šumaher were right, and somehow I have some instinct of nature that unfortunately Mr. Prlić is right. And when I finally became convinced that, unfortunately, Mr. Prlić was right, then I kept wondering who he was thinking, or who we were, that there was nothing we could change and influence. And after I've heard all these discussions and replicas and replicas of replicas, it seems to me that something has been exploited after all. The representatives of the political forces who were 100% in agreement with the draft Madrid Declaration, they did not have a single letter to suggest that it be changed, came out representatives of the political forces who stood out, which they disagreed with, bypassing what they agree with. I think it's clear what are the forces that 100% agree with the draft and 48 that disagree. In that context, I would say to Mr. Rasim Kadić -- to his credit, at last someone came out here honestly and named what he represented. He said nicely that there was a Dayton Agreement, but it was nice and honest that he and his political strength struggled to be a revision of Dejton. Only, either he forgot or thinks it's a solution, did he say it takes two or at least two sides to make a deal. And when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's certainly more than two sides. Therefore, we should be clear of what our goal is here. Breaking up Bosnia and Herzegovina or accepting the agreement agreed in Dayton. Let me also say in this context: someone here has asked the question of unrealised conclusions of previous conferences, listing them Decidally, etc. Not all conclusions from these conferences have been made. But there's only one reason. At these conferences, we didn't agree on those conclusions. Well, I'm sorry -- what Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak did not agree on, and on behalf of all other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's hard to believe that anyone will ever, ever exercise any force. So we have to make a deal, and then it'll all be fun. That's the basic problem. I have the impression that I'm in a ring where even four corners are a little bit of a place to settle all sides that are opposite so that not one step is ready to make them closer to those angles. I responsibly argue that Republika Srpska has indeed made a major step towards agreement, according to agreement, towards overcoming the opposite. Even, perhaps more than its citizens were willing to accept only two or three years after bloody conflicts and killings, which were versatile, not unilateral. Here's one debater, speaking of the Madrid Declaration Draft, said he advocated strengthening the joint institutions. I, really, with the most will and effort, couldn't explain to myself what strengthening meant. Whether Srbin, Hrvat, Jevrej and Austrijanac, Slovenac, should be brought into those institutions, whether to build a building in which they will exist. I just don't know what that strengthening means. I really don't know honestly, this isn't rhetoric. Someone also said it aims to create two multiethnic entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, please make two if they're the same. They don't need entities at all. If we agree with that, what's two equal entities going to do? As soon as there's two things, they're different by something, but that's not the topic of this agenda point, I'm just saying that as a replica here. I ask you to go back to the draft of the Madrid Declaration, to determine if there's anything we can do on that draft and what it is that we disagree with and if we can agree to agree to agree on and look together there. If he goes there like he is here - three ministers, three positions, ten parties, ten views. That someone else will bring the Madrid Declaration. We won't have anything to do with it, and on our backs will go its implementation, or not implementation. And I finally found out why Mr. Šumaher was so smooth and easily said that we could affect it all. It's simply because he knew there was nothing we could agree on and, according to that, there's nothing we can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1001	Thank you. Mrs. Pašalić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1002	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, 49 Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in connection with the Madrid Conference have taken a stand. Our views are next We are in favour of consistent interpretation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the highest legal act in each country and adopted laws as a prerequisite for the functioning of the rule of law for further implementation of the Peace Agreement and the functioning of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The inevitable rule of the Constitution and the law for all in Bosnia and Herzegovina is from international representatives to government institutions. Our view is that the powers of the factors, in particular the High Representative and the individual bodies, have crossed the line of powers under the Peace Agreement, and have reached a critical point at which it begins to act, instead of the host government mechanism based on the results of multiple re-elections in the post-war period, unpromotional but applied protectorate. Therefore, we believe that the High Representative should refrain from imposing laws and other regulations to maintain the right to suspend and apply them, if it considers that individual legal solutions are contrary to the Peace Agreement. Such trends in implementation and interpretation of the Peace Agreement are not in the wake of the establishment of a lasting and sustainable peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that an initiative should be launched for certain improvements in the reconstruction of the existing county and municipal networks in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is in line with the Washington and Dayton agreements. We believe that, the invigoration and functioning of the existing joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in line with constitutional competences, as well as the transition to the market economy, as well as the rapid and efficient process of privatisation and the creation of a self-sustainable economy and the mutually conditional aspects of strengthening peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We insist on establishing commitments and developing a single programme of return of exiled and displaced for 1999, on the principles of returning everyone to their own, respecting the results achieved so far on minority returns. We also insist on a consistent and hasty implementation of the Sarajevo and Banja Luka returns declaration. We ask that the court in The Hague speed up and end the process of persons suspected of war crimes, which will confirm its credibility, while at the same time increasing confidence in the institution and ensuring fuller and more effective co-operation between the tribunal's authorities. In this regard, we are in favour of full transparency in resolving this issue and consider it necessary to establish a competent body at the level of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council for relations with the tribunal. We believe that, in addition to the uneven representation of ethnic groups in the structure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina population, the new electoral law should be more pronounced than the national criteria so far. Also, we believe that there are conditions for future elections to be organised by a permanent electoral commission. We are in favour of establishing free and democratic media throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this context we are in favour of transforming Bosnia and Herzegovina's Radio-Television into two national channels. We believe that the presence of ESFORA and AIPI, the TIEF, as well as clear conditions for completing the full implementation of the Civil Part of the Peace Agreement are still needed. We also advocate the reduction of military... in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the inclusion of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Euro-Atlantic integration. We are in favour of ensuring uniform treatment at the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore with regard to the adoption of the Law on Immigration and Asylum. We expect new positive positions from the Madrid Conference in the implementation of the Peace Agreement, which will be the result of 50 implementations and real conditions on the ground from now on in order to achieve self-sustainable institutions of government and self-sustainable peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1003	A fellow Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1004	Dear Members of the Parliament, we apologized well today. But what concerns me a little is - does this Parliament have the right to have an argument to affect the fate of the citizens and peoples it represents? Here we have two answers to this question today. One -- you suggest something, and you're not a member of a body that could do it -- and the other, you have no right, or you don't have a chance. I think there's something else here, and I leave it open and I don't want to open a discussion or a replica on that subject, but the fact is it's standing. Secondly, there was an impression here today, which I do not want to appear in Parliament, which is that we have an attack and a defense, and we lack the middle of the field. Because the fact -- as one, they're fighting for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other -- like they're attacking Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what I'd call assault and defense, and I think the solution is in the middle of the field, because they say that's always the part that wins the game. We don't have that part, and we're going to have to do that part if we want to have that problem solved. I think we should respect each other more. I'd like to listen to myself like that if you'd listen to yourself say that. Because that's how we can come up with a solution. There's one strange thing, and that's -- we're different and it's a notorious fact, because Šušić says -- if we're not different by anything else, then I don't care whether it exists or not, because the other one makes up for me. And, now beware -- the value is created in diversity, and it should be respected, and I wouldn't want the other one to make up for me even if I were to make up for others. The past should only be returned under one condition, given what is happening when we want to improve the present and the future. If we go back to the past for other reasons, we won't have a future. I am surprised at the claim, I will not name, that this Parliament is respected, and when making key decisions on the fate of citizens and peoples, this Parliament does not know whether it has a right to suggestions. One situation that is so small - where is it, that moment arises the question of where is the dignity of this Parliament? Whether we're really to blame for this confusion that's been created here or if someone pushed us into this confusion, I'm leaving it alone to respond depending on the experience. Let me tell you -- peace and prosperity in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be when citizens and peoples agree on it. I deliberately say citizens and peoples, because I don't think there's a citizen if it doesn't belong to the people and there's no people in it who don't have a citizen, and that in the draft of the Madrid Declaration, there's only a word of the citizen, as if the people didn't exist, and I think it's one thing that's unbreakable and I would never say that there's one thing and there's no other. How we're going to live in these places, we need to make arrangements, because the needs need to come out of us and from us, and so far, some others say they know more about what we need than we do ourselves. It's a situation that's at least odd. How can someone know better than me what I need, or how someone knows what we need better than us. Our commitment, distinguished gentlemen, should be peace and that lasting peace, not creating potential dangers for some future new conflict, and it must be present when it is done, spoken and negotiated in this House. He must learn from experience, for he who does not enter experience repeats his past. Next, I thought in this document, I'd have a series of objections, to be honest, a point by point, 51 where I'd do something, and I don't know if I'd just waste my time, what I'd suggest if I lost my time, when I didn't know the fate of that. After all, I'd like it to be a suggestion, so I'll take some of you in, whether or not it's okay. I thought that in this document, respecting us, there would be one conclusion that would say about this: The member states of the Peace Implementation Council have full confidence in the commitment of citizens and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement the Dayton Peace Agreement and the development of democracy, mutual respect and tolerance." I wish there was one conclusion like this, if I knew someone didn't think I knew anything. I have a feeling that nobody really tells us who trusts us, how much they trust us that we want our destiny back. If I knew that, I'd probably talk about it differently. Since I have concrete suggestions, I don't know their fate, and there's no one to answer that, I won't take up any more of your time. Thank you. Since there are no registered debaters, I suggest we bring this point to an end. So, a lot of opinions have been expressed, a lot of suggestions and there are quite a variety of views, views and opinions and expectations from Madrid and looking at individual solutions and suggestions. All that is said here today and all that the MPs have said, I think - I hold in the end, that it is useful, above all, and as an opportunity for MPs to say their position and as a possibility that those who will participate in the work of the Madrid Conference and those who will decide that this as suggestions should be taken into account. To be realistic - there are many different points of view, there are very diverse views and it is difficult for us to agree on certain views and conclusions that might be some sort of basis and binding for the performance of delegations in Madrid, especially since we, in the context and the way we decide in Madrid, have no right to do so. So, I suggest that, while respecting all these discussions that we have heard, several conclusions that have been proposed to be made, that we conclude the discussion and this item of the agenda with several conclusions which would be roughly read as soon as possible, and as far as possible within a month, some proposals that have been made trying to reactivate, and essentially by supporting the proposals in the way they were made, so as soon as possible, within a month, the working bodies of the House of Representatives, which means that they are chosen to preside over the vice-presidents, that the Council of Ministers make up some kind of inventory of obligations from earlier meetings, from earlier meetings of the viejće for the implementation of the peace, so that, Bon, Luksenburt, is made an inventory which has not been implemented and that the operational plan to be able to implement these dots and that within the period of time of time of time of time of time, will be allowed from the end of the operational work from the time of time of the time of time of the time of the period of time of the period of time of time of the period of the period, and the period of time, and the period of the period of time of time, of time, of time of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, of the period, of time of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, of time of the period of the period of the period of the time, of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of time, of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the time of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of time of the period of the period of the the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the time, of the period of the period of the time of the period of time, of time of the period of time, of time of the period of the period of time, I of time, I. of time of the period of the period of time, I. of the period of the period of the period of time of the period of the period of the period of time, of the These are, therefore, three, four conclusions that would formalise the work of Parliament's working bodies and bring the working bodies of this House to be in a position to prepare the House of Representatives for Madrid and for earlier peace implementation meetings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you agree, I think the time of the month is real, so the furthest possible, if we succeed earlier, but within a month, we have in mind and a period and a holiday. So I think it's kind of objective and real time. 52 If you agree, and if there is no addition, I would put this proposal to a vote. Who's to conclude like this, please raise our hands and bring the end. Twenty-two for it. Does anyone mind, maybe? Who's being held back? Three abstentions. So it voted 26 total, 23 for, I think, and qualified by most, therefore, the simple majority, adopted these conclusions. I therefore propose, of course, on the realization of the conclusions, until the committees are established, the College and the chairman will take care of the realization of these adopted conclusions. I now propose that we move to the 3rd item of the agenda I call on the representatives of the Council or the competent ministry of the Council of Ministers to give an introductory explanation. Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1006	Ladies and gentlemen, when we passed the travel documents law that had already begun the implementation, it was I who began this fact that we already have travel documents that are being betrayed and with which we normally travel. Normally, if it were foreseen under the law and will be worth old travel documents, when it comes to the old ones, it is also meant for these travel documents, better said passports, which have been issued by the former Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Under the law, it was intended to be by the end of this year, believing that we would be able to apply the new law until the end of this period and be issued under the new law of the new travel document. In objectively, there are, there were appropriate problems. I think at one point there was a little bit of a misunderstanding, a need to maybe, work faster, etc., etc. It is precisely because, in order not to keep a large number of our citizens abroad, 18/2V, or to get into trouble about the importance of travel documents and everything else, about a month to two days ago, we suggested that only this part of the Law, which speaks of it, should be changed and proposed to the Parliamentary Assembly that, in the sense that, instead of 31 December of this year, the importance of the existing old travel documents should be extended, in conclusion from 30.6.1999. I propose, indeed, to the House of Representatives that it accepts, by making a firm commitment to all the relevant resolution authorities that they must implement the existing law by the end of that period, which is why we can objectively talk, which is why it did not happen, but does not need to be suffered by citizens abroad. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1007	I thank Mr. Bosić. 53 I do not think it is necessary to point out how important this is, for a large number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially those across Europe, because by not passing this amendment, they would be in a position to end the validity of the travel document, and they are not yet in a position to achieve a new pathway. I'm opening a debate on this amendment, how much does it take? Mrs. Suada.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1008	I will vote for the adoption of this law for a simple reason so that citizens do not suffer what we or the authorities that need to comply with this Parliament did not do in time. But, please, let's not get back into a situation where we can re-route the deadlines for this matter or for some other bird. The point is that we program our work, program the organs, and look at the obligations arising from the laws that have been passed, so that we can make sure that the laws are implemented. I don't see any valid reason here that this couldn't have been done by the end of the year, or at least you didn't tell us. I accept that you've assessed the situation and we don't have anywhere to go right now, but that doesn't mean we have to accept this kind of work.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1009	Thank you. Is there any other need for this statement, as far as I can see, to the extent that there are no reports and I ask the MPs to make a statement on the adoption of the draft law amending the travel documents law? I beg the messengers to raise their hands, plead who is to adopt the bill? Do you mind? Restraint, perhaps? Thank you. I therefore conclude that out of the 30 present, the draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents has been unanimously adopted and I thank the MPs for their vote. Is it about this point? This way, I'm finishing this point. There's still a point to Parliament's questions. If there is a need, and Mr. Špirić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1010	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a question, but one suggestion, given that we're done two today. The meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Council, MPs from the Republika Srpska will demand that the 3rd meeting be held on principle 2 + 1 in Lukavica, so I ask the College to take care of it. I ask those who prepare this Parliament and the session to provide us with the materials in time, as we should and, of course, that the agenda simply be agreed, so that we do not be late with the session. So, to move that session where the agenda will be discussed, an hour in advance, to get the session started on time. So, the next session, as it has been so far, I don't see any reason to change 2+1, so we're going to be in the space of the Republika Srpska entity. It's a suggestion and I pray you're simply aware. 54 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1011	Of course, this is what the College of Chairmans is going to have talks about, that I'm not opening the debate now and I'm not politicizing the question. The letter on this issue, followed by the OHR's reaction, have the conclusions set out in the bono and, of course, we will keep that in mind and in view of the Interim Rules of Procedure, which has been so far, it was indeed 2+1, but the building of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been restored and I think that this new moment has reached a space adequate for the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. All of these elements and your suggestion will be given to the College of Chairmans. Thank you. Please, if there are any questions for the pay phone. Mr. Mirković answered.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1012	Gentlemen Chairman, My first address to this meeting is clear for the obvious and visible reasons why it is difficult to come for this speaker, from the predecessors who appeared two, three, four times and took the word, referring to the position of one commendation, until now there have been, clearly, criticisms, and now here is one commendation. I welcome the initiative to set these tables up, because we wrote on our knees last time. As for criticism, I criticise the chairman for reasons, that they did not separate the MPs from the others present in this hall, badges, tags or something, because I, I really don't know who's an MP here, and who's a guest or some members are associated... That's on that basis. And based on some future work, I believe that this is indeed a teatung that creates an international factor and people who organise these meetings and to us MPs, related to the delivery of adequate materials for the preparation of these sessions. Therefore, if possible, these materials should be delivered neatly, at least two days before these sessions, not before the sittings, or the sitting itself. As for the initiative that we respect the Rules of Procedure of the previous working period, two sessions in Sarajevo, one session in Lukavica, I think we should really respect that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1013	Thank you. Anyone else have any questions from the MPs? Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1014	First of all, I would like to ask the gentlemen who chair the Parliamentary Assembly whether we have a certain working group for the Permanent Rules of Procedure and whether there is a deadline when the Permanent Rules of Procedure will be offered for debate. Can I get a deal right away or wait for the procedure at the next session? Is there, therefore, a working group formed by the House of Representatives to fill the new Rules of Procedure, constantly? That's what I asked in the first session. 55
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1015	The new Permanent Rules of Procedure will be done by the Commission on administrative matters, which is today appointed both in accordance with Mr Vestendorf's suggestions, from the letter, it will be one of the priority issues.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1016	So, is there a deadline we're proposing, 15 days, a month?
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1017	We didn't talk about that deadline, and you know we want it done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1018	Okay, given that Parliament has to work on democratic procedures, I suggest that that deadline be at the latest for a month, as you have suggested, with regard to the work of other committees, their constitution and the beginning of work. Could you put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1019	We'll put it on. No suggestions. Please, then, enough to say that the Commission will establish itself and that within a month, as we have said, it will do business from the domain.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1020	I am pleased that it will be up to a month, as the other committees have been established, that we will get the draft Rules of Procedure, permanent for Parliament. Secondly, as I would like to say, I support Mr Mirković for the demarcation of MPs or services, in particular that they should be constitutionalised, and given the democratic procedure, immunity, which is proposed here. I would like to draw your attention to the Official Messenger, Sunday, 15 November 1998 OSCE Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, temporary commission election commission, confirmed election results, general elections 12 and 13 September 1998. From the beginning to the end, they entered this Parliament under the appropriate name by the legal procedure established by the Interim Election Commission, among other things by different parties, coalitions, alliances, etc., and the Coalition of the CD BiH entered under the name from the beginning to the end of this document. I'm putting him in jail, if there's no parliamentary service that's been set up, so they don't knock it down. I propose that the coalition for full and democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina (SDA BiH, Party for BiH, Liberals BiH and the GDS) stick to the name that the Coalition of the CD BiH has, because what appears to be in brackets is four different political parties that make up the Coalition and which have such official name. There is no official name KCDBiH. Considering possible, of course, the democratic future process.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-10-0.u1021	Thank you. Is there any other need to ask a parliamentary question? As far as I can tell, it's gone. I thank you and finish this session. The session is closed at 5.40 hours. End
