ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u775	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we get started. I have had a pleasant duty to open the Constitutional Session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will wait a moment for the MPs from Republika Srpska's space to enter. Of the entire composition of the House of Representatives of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which numbers 42 MPs and compared to 28 from the Federation and 14 from Republika Srpska, a total of 34 MPs are present, or 26 from the Federation and 8 from Republika Srpska's space. We have a quorum for rightful decision-making and the work of this House of Representatives, this session. First of all, allow me to welcome the newly elected MPs and MPs and wish a lot of success in performing this responsible function. I particularly welcome the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency of Mr Radišić, Mr Izetbegović and Mr Jelavić, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers here present, and then the Ambassador of Westendorp, the UN High Representative to BiH, Ambassador Šumaher, and also the representative of the OHR, her Excellency to Mrs Elizabet Ren, representatives of the OSCE and other international organisations, representatives of the diplomatic court in BiH, representatives of political parties who have their own MPs or representatives in the House of Representatives and all others attending today's session. In preparation for this session of the House of Representatives, representatives of all 10 parties who have their deputies in the House of Representatives held two constitutional meetings, one held before the beginning of this session. At these consultation meetings, we agreed on the agenda of today's session, and I will read the agenda as agreed by party representatives. It's about the Constitutional House of Representatives' session with the next agenda. Selection of the Verification Commission, 2. Verification of the mandate of Members, 3. Making a solemn statement, 4. The election of the chairman and deputy chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Parliament House. I am standing before the MPs on this agenda for adoption and I call upon the MPs to declare by raising their hands, who is for this proposed agenda? So all present MPs, i.e. 34 votes are for this proposed agenda and I realize that the draft agenda has been adopted. 2 Moving to the 1st point of the agenda During these meetings that we had between representatives of parliamentary parties, we agreed that, in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure on the work of the Representative's House of Representatives, the Verification Commission numbers a total of five members, the capacity to be satisfied from the entity's space to be all largely a multi-party composition of the Commission, as well as all futures that we will appoint with the satisfaction of all the criteria of Parliament's representatives and that the Commission will be in the next composition of Jozo Leutar, Miodrag Deretić Alma Čolo, Ivo Divković and Vito Rakić. I ask MPs if there are any proposals for enlargement or some new proposal in the membership of the Verification Commission, Mr Dokić reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u777	I would only have one correction to this moment proposed Vito Rakić, so I would suggest instead Špirić Nikol.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u778	Thank you. Any other suggestions and suggestions? He doesn't want anyone. I think that this suggestion, i.e. the amendment proposed by Mr. Dokic, should be accepted for purely practical reasons and the Verification Commission in the composition: Alma Čolo, Jozo Leutar, Miodrag Deretić, Ivo Divković and Nikola Špirić. I'm putting up for adoption, and I'm calling on the MPs to declare by raising their hands, who's for the Verification Commission in this system? I find all MPs present, i.e. 26 votes gave and adopted the membership of the Verification Commission in that composition. I call on the members of the Verification Commission to withdraw to a special room and carry out what is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the task of the Verification Commission and the mutually designated rapporteur, and we will pause from 10 to 15 minutes how much it is necessary for the Verification Commission to do the job. [[continuing after break]] I suggest we get back to work. I, above all, owe one apology, namely, one number of MPs who have arrived at the source were in another room and were not informed in time about the beginning of the work, so these MPs have already joined, or earlier, so that the quorum, the number of MPs present, or we will inform you of the exact number. So once again, I apologize to Members, the technical problem was not to inform MPs that the session had begun work. 3 We move on to 2. Agenda item: I call on the Verifification Commission representative to submit a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u780	Dear chairman, deputy chairman, respected representatives of the international community, respected heads of diplomatic missions, respected officials of the BiH state, ladies and gentlemen of parliament. Verification commission: Alma Čolo, Jozo Leutar, Miodrag Deretić, Ivo Divković and Nikola Špirić discussed the Interim Election Commission Report at their session held on 26.11.1998 – the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe on the confirmation of the official results of the elections held in September 1998 for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and proposes to confirm the verification of the mandate as follows:... The Parliamentary Assemblys of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the territory of the Federation were selected: from the Coalition for Full and Demorkatical BiH: Alagić Raifa, Bičakčić Edhem, Branković Nedžad, Čaršimamović Tarik, Čolo Alma, Filipović Mediha, Genjac Halid, Jahić Adnan, Kadić Rasim, Neimarlija Hilmo, Oručević Safet, Pamuk Mustafa, Silajdžić Haris and Spahić Ibrahim. From the territory of RS from the Coalition for Full and Democratic BiH were selected: Bećirbašić Smail, Krić Munira and Malkic Abdurahman. From the territory of the FbiH of the Social Democratic Party of BiH, they were elected: Bogić Bogičević, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Mijačević Ivo and Muminagić Suada. From the Social Democrats of BiH, Divković Ivo and Tokić Sejfudin were elected. The HDZ would have chosen: Havel Ana, Leutar Jozo, Pašalić Ivica, Prlić Jadranko, Skopljak Pero and Tomić uneven. From the new Croatian initiative – Croatian Christian Democratic Community, Lozančić Ivo was elected. From the Serbian Radical Party in RS territory, they were elected: Balta Radenka and Mirković Dragan. From the Radical Party of RS, Deretić Miodrag was elected. From Sloga from the RS area, they were selected: Bosniak Milenka, Dokić Branko, Jovanović and Rakić Vito. From the SDS party in RS, Banajc Mirko, Perkanović Mara, Rađević Desanka and Špirić Nikola were elected. The verification committee in that composition proposes to Parliament the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to confirm the verification of the mandate of the proposed candidates. With regard to all the candidates I have read, the holding of the Verification Commission is unique, except candidates in front of the Democratic People's Community of BiH Đedović Ibrahim, the Commission did not have a single position here. Four members of the Commission were in order to carry out a verification of the candidate's mandate at today's session, while he is a representative of the coalition for a complete and democratic BiH i.e. I was, in order to carry out this session delaying the verification of the term of office of the said consignor, for the following reasons: I have suggested that the delay be carried out because of the criminal proceedings against Đedović Ibrahim at the cantonal court in Sarajevo, because of violations of international humanitarian law, which was initiated on the basis of the agreement of the UN Prosecutor's Office of the Hague tribunal. Because at the same time the appeal procedure was the first decision of the cantonal court to find Đedović Ibrahim guilty of violating international humanitarian law. I have suggested that the confirmation of his term of office be postponed until the final decision of the Supreme Court. However, one of the views expressed on the Verifification Commission was to postpone the verification of this mandate, possibly until the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, to obtain valid opinions from the competent authorities of 4 international communities and other institutions. And for this reason, the Commission has left it to the House of Representatives to make its decision on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u781	Thank you. As you saw from the Report for all MPs and on the Verification Commission there was agreement and there was no obstacle to the verification of the mandate. As far as Đedović's MPs from the Democratic People's Union are concerned, the position that was on the College of Parliamentary Party Representatives is mentioned as one of the possible solutions and the Verifikac Commission is the conclusion that the question of the verification of Đedović's mandate is delayed until the valid positions of competent institutions relating to the procedure for Đedović. I will ask you, therefore, to vote on these two parts of the Verification Commission's report. The first was the Verifification Commission's report to verify the mandate... Here you go. Member of the Verification Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u782	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow Members, dear guests, I think it is a mature time for the Parliamentary Assembly representative council to work in the spirit of its responsibilities and in accordance with the Dayton Agreement that these are serious times and we are serious people and that we should work quite seriously. There are no two reports from the Verification Commission, the other thing is, I guess the Verification Commission has to decide and the proposal is presented, so most votes have made a decision to verify the mandate. Because we in the Verification Commission didn't have any valid documents to challenge that mandate. We've been looking for any of them. Unless this assembly intends to issue a court order to convict the gentleman concerned. We're not right about that. In the first place, there must be an MP who swears to work in the interest and spirit of the rules and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there aren't two reports, we're voting on a full report. I suppose the congregation bodies should have a procedure as they decide and make a decision in order to propose here. There is no standard for such a verification committee in which one member will decide to go with a counter-proposal. Something's wrong. So we have a unique view of the Verification Commission or most of the votes, the Verification Commission has decided that no mandate is disputed, because there is no valid evidence that it has disputed any mandate. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u783	Thank you. The verification board made the record and we heard the report. We can adopt the Report of the Verification Commission, there is no dispute, and that is the report of the Verification Commission, which was addressed with the consent of most members of the Verification Commission. However, a separate opinion of the members of the Verification Commission has also emerged in its weight, which deserves to be particularly stated by members of this House of Representatives on the matter. 5 Therefore, the report of the Verification Commission is not disputed to adopt, to vote on the Verification Commission's Report. However, the Verifification Commission report contains the view that the different opinion of the members of the Verification Commission on the verification of the mandate to Mr Đedović. Therefore, after the vote on the Verification Commission's report, I am obliged to ask Đedović's verification of the mandate as a special issue in verifying my mandate. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u784	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, it is very important from a principled point of view to define the way you work in this high house. It will often happen that the chairman does not like the flow of the union, the discussion, or the proposals of certain committees. In that case, the chairman should rise above all current feelings and work on the Rules of Procedure. At this point in time of business, after receiving the Verification Commission's report, we can accept or reject this report and ask the Verification Commission to make a second report. All other interferences, all other references of different arguments are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chairman. Why I think this case is very important when I've already taken my word for it. It is important from the aspect of the need to ensure respect for the mandate gained in accordance with OSCE rules and the will of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to make it impossible for anyone, any political majority, to disabling the mandate at any site. I will remind you, this is not the first attempt to dissuade the mandate given in accordance with the OSCE rules and in the scale of citizens' will on a particular constituency. In the Republika Srpska Parliament, at one point, he tried to prevent members of the CD coalition from accepting an oath or a procedure that was turned around and defined by the internal rules earlier. And then and now, I believe that the mandate at the moment he was obtained by the OSCE is incomparable from the OSCE and of, of course, still incomparable from the will of the citizens. Anything further that follows the court procedure is something important only when a decision is reached. I don't want to discuss a specific case, but I'm so familiar with this press case, that at this point there is no verdict in the process, there is only the fact that a defense man and we need to change the terminology in our legislation, we don't need to call him guilty anymore, we need to be defended. So, the man is in the process. Not nearly wanting to bring it into a similar context, but I have to tell you next. I have a lawsuit against a member of the presidency, a civil suit, Mr. Izetbegović, and he called 2/3 to his immunity. The term of office is not disputed, the verdict is still missing, perhaps my lawsuit is inadequate, but it is from a legal point of view Mr. Izetbegović is a lawyer, a very similar position. I do not want to say, in any way, that everything that has been happening in the tragedy of the Bosniak people and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in the Cazin region, should be deprived of the elements and judicial and, of course, political responsibilities. There have been terrible things happening in Bosnia, terrible things, but this house must not take the decision of the court today. We don't have any of the verdicts at this point that would define us not to verify our mandate at this point. About immunity, I'll speak my mind immediately. I would plead to the possibility of someone calling for immunity in the process, I would only plead if an immunity call happened and I must say in person, I would recommend that Đedović wait for the verdict, but there is no one here to confiscate. 6 After all, most MPs have now come into a rather difficult situation to be verbally called about some stories. By the way, let me rephrase it. I can tell you a story that someone intends to sue someone, so it wouldn't be convenient for us to accept his term now, because he'll probably be convicted in that lawsuit. Đedović's legal status is that there is no judicial verdict and that he received, in accordance with OSCE rules, which means he had no interference with those involved in war crimes, in accordance with OSCE rules. I have to say that there are people I'd like to lead in a true trial for what they've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u785	Thank you. The position of the Đedović case and the case of the lawsuit, Mr. Tokić's private lawsuit cannot be compared closely, of course. And just so that this House of Representatives does not happen in such an inappropriate manner, we are also proposing that relevant positions of the competent authorities be obtained and that this House of Representatives should not be converted into a courtroom and, therefore, we are asking for competent documentation to be obtained and to then consider and decide on the verification of the mandate of an MP who is currently firstly convicted in accordance with the Rules of the Roman Way and which does not mean at all, if he is found not to be tried for violations of international law, because he who submits to the court and appears for charges of violations of international law, can be on the list, the question of mandate and immunity is another matter. Alma Čolo came forward for the replica, and then another member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u786	I wouldn't do any replica, I'd like to explain my position that I've just expressed. Mr. Tokić said there is no verdict in this particular case. The first-degree verdict exists at the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo, which -- true, is not a forceful one, but that verdict was passed on the basis of the powers given by the Office of the Hague tribunal's Prosecutor's Office and which assessed that in a concrete case there is evidence and that there is a reasonable doubt that Džedović Ibrahim has committed certain crimes involving violations of international humanitarian law. So, the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo has not voluntarily prosecuted a particular case and is not on its own, has not brought this first-degree verdict on its own. We are still standing on the stand where we stood and when we challenge Ibrahim Džedović's candidacy, we support Article 7 of the 10th Point of the Election Commission, on which no person on the charge can be a candidate on the lists or be able to act on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This Article 7(b) is perfectly clear, as only a person who complies with the orders of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been told here to refer to such persons. I am opinions and the coalition believes that Mr. Džedović did not willingly comply, but was arrested as such and as such this member cannot be treated. It's a foothold for what I've singled out my opinion on the Verification Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u787	Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u788	Mr President, it is my special pleasure and honor to welcome fellow Members of Parliament to the House of Representatives, as well as other guests. The House of Representatives just hired us to propose item 2 of the agenda for the Virification of the mandate. I, Mr. Chairman, ask you to stick to the rules of procedure that we all have and in that sense run this session. So, the Verification Commission has put forward a proposal, it can only be discussed here and put under 1st vote on whether the Commission's proposal is adopted, adopted or not. Everything else can come behind it.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u789	Who's calling?
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u790	According to the Interim Rules of Procedure, there are not exactly such provisions as to the work of any commission, including the Verifikacione Committee. The verification committee, as one of the working bodies, has its responsibilities, but has no responsibilities, neither the right nor the ability to insist that any position of the Verification Commission be adopted as such. Any proposal tabled by any MP, on any issue, is equal, especially if it is the position of one of the members of the Verification Commission. Therefore, we here and in line - when we have in mind 3/2 and the Statute, i.e. the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Temporary, the work of the House of Representatives, have the inevitable next situation: we have the view that around all MPs the proposal is to verify the mandate and we have a position about one MP who is divided, one suggest that his mandate be verified, the other suggest that his mandate not be verified. Therefore, all proposals are even and I must respect this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u791	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Verification Commission, on which I was sitting, is that all mandates are being verified, and the President of the Verification Commission has singled out its position. So we have a proposal from the Verification Commission. We explained why, because we don't have, I'd say, a legally valid document by which we wouldn't suggest it. I would ask to vote on a proposal from the Verification Commission, but to vote afterwards on the CD Coalition proposal, or its representative. We need to make a statement about the putting of the Verification Commission, and I think it's one quite logical way to end it.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u792	Are there any more debaters? Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u793	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, gentlemen of the chairman, distinguished guests, we have agreed in preparation for this session today to try to organise it so that it passes as one solemn session and that is exactly why some of the topics we have left for another session that we agreed to be immediately after these very soon two Madrid conferences. Unfortunately, there isn't any of this solemn session, this isn't a formal session anymore, after what we've had right now. This is a formal session, but it's not the way we imagined it. The problem here is very simple -- according to the Rules of Procedure, who disagrees with the Commission's report, obviously, would have to put this proposal to a vote, to clarify what this proposal means. The Commission's proposal to adopt all mandates for all MPs -- MPs, including Mr Džedović. This is the Commission's proposal. He's not divided, he's 4:1. So, gentlemen of the CD Coalition, you'll have to get used to not having a majority and a House of Representatives anymore in the way you've had so far. It's very simple. You now procedurally according to the Rules of Procedure - fellow Genjac - I tell you, If you want, I can read the articles, the attitudes and everything else. You now need to put the proposal to the vote, first of all by the Commission, if most votes get that proposal, then we all have verified mandates. I suppose with you from your coalition it will take into account your representative's position, which I do not understand in whose name he was speaking, when she spoke we stand at the point of view for the simple reason why the legal advice we asked for in the party's preparation for this, is that - since Mr. Džedović was not legally convicted, therefore there are no conditions for taking away his mandate, we have unnecessarily made this session different from what we planned. I therefore ask you once again, Mr. Genjac, to try to bring this into peaceful waters, which is to vote for the Commission's report, to verify all mandates, if the MPs of the CD coalition are joined by another, and the proposal of the Verification Commission doesn't get most, then we can agree on two things, or we can vote individually on two parts of the Verification Commission, or we can change the Verification Commission, so we can give a new task based on this debate to be done. Here, please put this on, so much more that you all need to get used to together that it's past the time when someone here might think that, by not agreeing with something, that we've split up. We didn't divide, there's no division - 4:1 - you're in the minority, there's a point. Get used to it.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u794	In order to avoid misunderstandings, the report of the Verification Commission can be fully adopted, with the great possibility that it will not be adopted for the reasons known to you, I am just out of the habit and some democratic principles that the report has divided into two parts and I am trying to adopt and decide on it in two parts, which is not less democratic at all, but rather more democratic. So let us make a statement about the Report that speaks of unquestionable issues, and then about the part of the Report that speaks of issues. In the end, however, it comes down to the same thing. We can declare the Report as a whole, but this report in general means that most members of the Verification Commission believe that all mandates should be verified. That means that report from the verifier's commission. If such a Report is not adopted, if the Report of the Verification Commission is not adopted, then we are in a position to ask the question why it has not been adopted, and it is not adopted because of that question that I want to separate and that we particularly plead on it. That's what this is about. Is there any more of the discussions that have been reported? 9 Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u795	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to hear that we're getting used to democracy earlier. We're having a hard time living under a single-party system for a long time, but here I hope we can make some progress. First, I believe that a part of the Commission's report should also go to the statement and secondly, that this cannot, for example, challenge my mandate. As far as I know. So let's go individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u796	Thank you very much, we have another proposal that in some ways respects the conclusion of the Verification Commission, that is, the Verifification Commission report, and the proposal is that we are individually pleading on the mandate of each MP. So that's the third proposal. Is there anyone else registered for discussion? The principle that we declare ourselves individually about each candidate, I absolutely respect the conclusion of the Verification Commission. So, the Verification Commission has proposed to verify each ambassador's mandate, individually saying about each MP respects that position. That is why I propose that we approach individual statements on all MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u797	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs. I really don't see the conclusion of the Verification Commission anywhere, so let me just say that the Verification Commission has offered its conclusion. No one disputes the Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council that the conclusion is rejected and that it accepts other conclusions. Let us in turn plead for a proposal from the Verification Commission. Do not argue that something that is disputed is set aside to make the Assembly known and it is democratic, let us not follow this and bring this to a circus where the number of animals is defined by the constitution that only the number of artists is increasing, there is no need for us to make it out of the Assembly, and therefore I ask you to make a statement about the attitude and no one pleads that this attitude is accepted or rejected. So let's take it in a row. If the Verifification Commission's position is rejected, then the vote, if rejected, goes to the motion that Mr Silajdžić has given us as an MP to plead, but to go red. Thank you. Thank you, but you have a breakthrough that I think might be, so let's face it, if it's not accepted, then it's also being considered by the individual parts of the report. If that doesn't happen, then if the majority doesn't get there, then each MP's term of office is voted individually. I think it is, and therefore I am putting everything to the vote the report of the Verification Commission which means - that a proposal from the Verification Commission is accepted to verify the mandates of all MPs. Who's in favor of that proposal please raise your hand? 24 is total, how many MPs are present in total 33 Now we will have to by entities, so most votes have, but in order to pass must at least a third of the MPs vote for a proposal, which means from Federation 10 of the Republika Srpska Five. I pray from Republika Srpska's space who's for the report? From the Federation's space, who's in favor of the report? So the Verifification Commission's report was adopted by majority of votes and higher qualified votes with a third of both entities. The Commission's proposal therefore said the report was treated to verify the mandate of all MPs. I put that proposal on the board of verifiers to the vote. A report by the Verification Commission, which proposes to verify all MPs, has been voted out, and therefore, I am putting forward, too much for the verification of the Sim, that is, the Prijeldog’s Verifikacione Commission, to verify the mandates of all MPs. Who is for the proposal to verify all MPs' terms of office? The total number of votes as regards the total number of 24 MPs is to verify the mandate of all MPs, we will have to redistribute for the sake of procedures and MPs per entity. Please from the RS space who's for verification? Thank you. There's a need for most of them. From the Federation's space, who's in favour? So, I find that the mandates of elected MPs have been verified with 24 votes for and the required majority of both entities. Congratulations to Members on verifying the mandate and moving to the next item of the agenda 3.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u799	I will only let MPs and guests inform that at these two meetings of the committees of the parties, we have mostly discussed this issue and agreed that the text of the statement of the MPs to make is the same as the statements made by the members of the Bureau and which has already been agreed. Teskt statements you received, we will make a statement in such a way that I will read aloud one segment of the text of the statement, and MPs will repeat with me in their own language as the attached text is given. Meanwhile, Mr. Mirko Banjac called. Here you go. 11 Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, High Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I have an application that we have agreed on at the College, which is to reach a conclusion - that at the next session of the House of Representatives, the amendments will be made to the text of a solemn statement, which is not in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that today, under that condition, we from Republika Srpska will sign a solemn statement. That's what we agreed. Secondly, I ask that such a conclusion be made before the signing. Do you need an explanation of what you're looking for? All I am asked to do is commit myself to knowingly and responsibly add this word, means knowingly and responsibly to perform the duties assigned to me, as an MP from Republika Srpska or from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is in accordance with Article 4. Article 2(2)(a) of the Constitution. We have come to the point of discussing this and perhaps other improvements, if it should come to them. Secondly, I ask you to deliver one important and solemn document in the future both in the letter of the Serbian people and in the language of the Serbian people that you have not now delivered the lists of MPs. And we can't sign here until it's done. I ask that this technical error be corrected, and as far as the text is concerned, he's fine because we agreed on him. Just to make this right.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u800	I'm just a colleague of Banjac to remind you that in the end we concluded on the College that the conclusion was made on the College and that we didn't have to do it at the Assembly. That's the conclusion, so now if it's a change of attitude, that's another thing. Okay, thank you. Are there any other suggestions and objections about this act of making statements? As long as it's gone. We spoke at the College at a meeting of party representatives on this, and the initiative was launched to open up the next session and start a debate on changing the text of the statement, to adopt such a conclusion, then we concluded that it was the position of the College and that we did not have to go to the Assembly. Since we have a change now, I am putting this motion to the vote and to draw that conclusion, since it is the position of the College and the representative of one party. So, please, by raising our hands, let us say that we have concluded that the next session raises the question of resolving the final text of the statement and of the MPs and members of the Bureau and others. Who's in? Thank you. As far as I can tell, they're all MPs. Do you mind? Abstained? So we have reached this conclusion and now we can proceed with the act of making a statement. I'll stop for a pay phone and read. I ask the messengers to stand up and the guests. Making a statement. Thank you and congratulations. Give it up. 12 After the session is over, we will have one, one smaller solemn part of this session, one cocktail, and on that occasion the guests will have the opportunity to congratulate the MPs. I just once again to remind the MPs, they've got the text of the statement and they need to sign this text. Meanwhile, while they gather reports, we will have to take a half-hour break and I urge representatives of all parliamentary parties to a shorter agreement on the Present. We're going to go to 4. Agenda item: The election of the chairman and deputy speaker of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina According to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives, three MPs, one Srbin, one Hrvat, one Bošnjak and one third of them chair the Assembly. The draw determined the order of the chairmans in the previous two-year term, and this was, as is known, the Hrvat, the Srbin, the Bošnjak, such order. This morning, at a meeting of parliamentary party representatives, we agreed that this term should be the opposite of who it was, respecting the post-constitution of the presidency chairman, etc. to be the first chairman of Bošnjak, other Srbih and third Hrvat. It's a consensus, it's an agreement by the representatives of all parties at this meeting that we had just before the session, because that's how it is, I'm now going to make a record of the Bošnjak candidate, for the Srbin and for the Croat. I call, therefore, on the parties and on the MPs to present their proposals in the front row of the Bošnjak. So Pamuk answers his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u801	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I am honored to propose on behalf of the Coalition for the Full and Democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina as president of this council, Mr Halid Genjac. I don't think there's any need for explanations at this point, we all know Mr. Genjac here, and I believe that's quite enough for you to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u802	Next proposal from Mrs. Ana Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u803	In front of the Croatian Democratic Union Club for a Croatian member in the presidency, I propose Mr. Per Skopljak. I think he's also very well-known and there's no need for me to particularly explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u804	Thank you. 13 I had an intention, to record to the soul the first Bosniak candidates in a row, all right. So that we can systematize this, I call, is there any more suggestions for the Bosniak chairman? Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u805	Mr. Čampara, since you are the universal interpreter of all the legal acts in this country, I draw your attention that this time you are wrong. The Rules of Procedure not only must now be proposed by the Bošnjak first and then only the Hrvat, and then only Srbin, but can now propose candidates for the presidency of this home to be rotated, in line with the adopted procedure. In that light, I will propose candidates for these positions. I would first like to conclude with regret, on behalf of the three SDP parties, the Social Democrats and the New Croatian Initiative, that, unfortunately, no political agreement has been reached between the parties. We felt that we should do so in a spirit of goodwill and that in the chairmanship of this House's legislative bodies, as well as the House of Nations should allow for a balanced, balanced, political party representatives, who are represented in these two homes, who make up one whole. We felt that these were rules as in the entire developed world and that it should be completely separated from the executive authority. We are also offered what was in the election of the chairman and deputy chairman of the two homes of the federal, or National Assembly of the RS. We felt that the six seats should be distributed to the presidents of parliamentary parties, as many as possible. Unfortunately, since I have not reached an agreement in front of this, I see now that I would not declare this a coalition or anything, I am now in front of the group in this House of Representatives and MPs of the New Croatian Initiative, the Social Democrats and the SDP, and you in... language if you want to call it whatever you want, I am going out with a proposal that we have agreed that, given that representatives who come from parties who are based in the RS have agreed among themselves to go with one candidate here and with another candidate in another House, we will not go out with our candidate for this place, for the place of man who is in the leadership of the Serb people's assembly, but we are going with our proposal for a Bosniak candidate and for the Croatian candidate. Since I see everyone here knows everything, I'm just gonna say names and say that you know everything about these people, there's no need to talk about them details. Candidates in front of these three parties, in front of the representatives of the three Bosniak people, Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, who I assume is too high in terms of who he is, and from the order of the Croatian people, Mr. Ivan Mijačević of the SDP. I must say that in the election of these candidates, we have not measured at all by any centiment of most parties, and I must conclude that with regret that some of the people who are MPs here from this group will unfortunately no longer be candidates for these functions. I am sorry and particularly take the opportunity to thank Mr. Ivan Lozančić, who was very successful at this table and his candidacy this time, and we thought to offer him, however, he refused that candidacy and considered that he should do as I have now suggested. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u806	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. So, further suggestions, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u807	I thank the gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, with regrets I can conclude that at a session of the College where representatives of all political parties were present and which was held half an hour ago, no agreement was reached on the schedule of functions in both BiH's homes and I speak this in front of the Liberal Party of BiH, as agreed in another BiH Parliament in one of its entities. Otherwise, I support the proposal that Mr. Halid Genjac be the chairman of this House on behalf of the Liberal Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u808	Thank you. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u809	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to express my confidence that today we will be given the leadership of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives, despite the discrepancies recorded after the College meeting. Given that there is no such kind of College, I would like to say very clearly that the proposal on our part to speed up the procedure in the making of a permanent Rules of Procedure, therefore, rather than the Interim Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Parliament, because it is inadmissible that two years is under the Rules of Procedure which are of a temporary nature, I would suggest another, given that the situation in the process of democratisation in BiH has been taken into account and that all issues relevant for the alignment of interest in a democratic way should be opened by means of a secret vote, and that a question be asked by the chairman whether these proposals are possible and otherwise, in the practice of this Parliament, one democratic liquid is ensured that Parliament's will be reached through a secret vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u810	Thank you. So, right now to answer this question in principle as it is otherwise, if most of the people present here decide to vote in secret, they can go undercover. Next, with suggestions. A candidate from the Serbian people's order.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u811	We have taken a unique stance from the order of the Serbian people, given that our club makes up the alliance of the SDS, the Serbian Radical Party and the Coalition of Slog and me among others in front of the Radical Party of RS, so our position is agreed on that, we propose that Mr. Banjac Mirko be one of the members of the House of Representatives whether he will be the chairman or vice-president will go in a certain order as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Why? So we tried to solve this problem in the package, when I say in the package, then I think first and foremost of the candidate who should be prominent for the function of the House of Peoples. Since the House of Naorda consists of three 15 MPs from the Coalition of Syllabics, and two MPs from this alliance, it is quite logical that we went simply to the logic system that right there at the function of the chairman or vice-chairman is the candidate from the Syllabic Coalition. In that sense, the proposal is here with us, so by consensus as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u812	Thank you, Mr. Deretić. Any other suggestions? Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u813	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats Party of the SDP suggests that these two clubs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, since such a possibility exists in Article 7, seem to me to be Article 2. We suggest that it be voted in secret, that this House be declared and secretly voted in favour of the proposed candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u814	Thank you. So we have a proposal, we also have a Rules of Procedure of Article 7, which is a decision-making matter, the vote is usually done by raising hands on demand that the vote be called in alphabetical or alphabetical order, starting with a member, which brings the president out... if he is the Srbin chairman, the alphabet will be read, etc. This is a way of maybe a member by member. Last sentence of point 5. “The House of Representatives may decide to vote in secret in any matter in accordance with Article 72 of this Rules of Procedure”. That's the way decisions are made, if there are options, there really is. I put forward a proposal, I have to put this motion in place before the vote, before the elections, and I put this proposal to a secret vote. Who's to make a public vote? So let's get to the point of who's in favour of a public vote. So who is it that the secret vote makes the election of the chairman? Who's in? 19 MPs are of 39, i.e. the half-way, not the half-dozen majority. The proposal didn't go through. So it's not even a half majority, and it probably wouldn't be a third by entities either. Therefore, the proposal is not accepted to vote in secret and we approach the vote by a public statement. Let all MPs raise their hands to count themselves. 39 total attendance. There's no need because the proposal didn't get a sufficient number - so the proposal failed, they didn't plead before. Please, who's against the motion to vote in secret? Who's against the proposal? 13 against. Who's restrained? 7, 13, 7, 19. 16 As for the candidate of the Bošnjak, we have two suggestions: Halid Genjac and Sejfudin Tokić. I'll put the motions in order to vote. Who's in favor of Halida Genoa? 20's in. The proposal got most of it -- however, I need to see for the entities. From the RS space who's in? 3 Since the proposal needs at least five votes from the RS space to pass, the proposal has not been adopted. Other candidate, SEJFUDIN
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u815	. Who's in? 18. The proposal didn't get most of it, but we need to see if everyone present voted. Who is against the Bošnjak-Sejfudin Tokić proposal? Let me explain. Since the proposal - Sejfudin Tokić's candidacy did not even get a simple majority of votes, some of the people could not vote at all, what Mr Lagumdžija just before we insist, we need to see the total number of voters who vote, MPs who will plead. That's why we have to bring the procedure to an end. As far as I'm concerned, the candidacy failed because it didn't get enough votes from the entity and there's no need to establish any further. There's a chance that the candidacy will be accepted if not everyone has voted. So 18 voted yes. Who's against Tokić candidacy? 6 Who Is Restraint? 12 So 12 abstentions, six against and 18 for. The proposal did not get a sufficient majority - therefore, it was not selected. As far as candidates from the Serb people's order are concerned, only one candidate has been proposed
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u816	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's for Banjac Mirko? - 16. Because of this situation, that most of the MPs who vote, I must also determine who is against and who is abstention. Who is against the proposal that Banjac Mirko be of the order of the Serb people? Niko. Who's restrained? 22. So there's no need for a majority. He didn't even pass the proposal for Banjac Mirko. From the order of the Croatian people we have two candidates: The proposal includes the candidateship of PERE SKOPLAKA. Who's in favor of Pero Skopljak being elected? - 17 Who's against it? Who's restrained? 22 Therefore, the proposal of Pere Skpljaka did not get the necessary majority, the qualified majority needed. I find that Pero Skopljak has not been chosen either. 17 Another candidate from the Croatian people is the SDP proposal, i.e. a group of parties Ivan
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u817	. Who's for Ivan Mijačević? Seven votes in. Who's against it? Who's restrained? 30 abstentions, no vote against seven for, so the proposal didn't get the necessary majority. I agree that by voting neither of the proposals nor from the Bosniak people or from the Croatian people, nor from the Serbian people have received the necessary majority and qualified majority and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to comply with the proposal within three days and to come forward with proposals in the meantime, if the access to the business provision on the way you are asked to vote is not agreed. With this, we've exhausted this part of the agenda. Mr. Dokić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u818	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I think this is what we're doing today is actually one small step into democracy. Obviously, there are no more coalitions that once existed officially and not officially. This is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, I personally don't think we should wait three days to choose the people who will operate this assembly, because we have all agreed to hold a working session of the Assembly in the next ten days before the Madrid conference, I think it is very important that this council takes its stand on very important issues that will be brought to Madrid. My proposal is to take a break an hour to meet again and try to reconcile the views to discuss these issues again, responsible for saying that we have entered these elections without having prepared any previous arrangements, it is obvious that it is necessary and that the arrangements have been discussed only in a short period of 15 minutes, give time now for the representatives of the parties who have their MPs sitting here to reconsider all the proposals and those who are, we have now discussed in the break the principles, not from some parties at all, to some people at all, even though some people who have proposed here said no matter what the name is, when they said no need to discuss everyone, I have heard about that name for the first time, give us more elements and arguments to vote on their conscience. Don't be impatient, it's easier for us to make such a decision today to vote rather than meet in three or five days. We are not professional MPs, we have our own professional obligations and the question arises – will anyone in three days be able to put aside their professional obligations? Let's finish the job today, I beg you, it's in the interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u819	Thank you. Mr. Tokić reporting, please. 18
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u820	Honored Chairman, Dame and gentlemen MPs and MPs I think that our next activities obviously agreed, the necessary agreement between the opposition political parties and the ruling political parties should continue in the section of the constitution and college agreements, i.e. the chairman of the House of Representatives and the working bodies. In this context, I propose that the process of consultation be opened on proposals for the chairman-in-Office of the Commission, Vice-President-in-Office and for members of the chairman-in-Office, then there will be more space to reach an agreement within the framework of parliamentary parties that could obtain the necessary majority in this House. I think it takes a day or two for the process, and I suggest and agree that these consultations can begin tonight or tomorrow, because without the constitution and the working bodies we cannot objectively say that we have established this high home of the Parlaemtary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, my proposal is to open the consultation process in the next three days and for committees and committees that will have and what tasks and obligations within and those points we agreed on at the college, which is preparations for the Madrid conference and already proposed laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u821	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the MPs from Republika Srpska are sorry that there has been no constitutionalisation of the leadership of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have come out with our unique position within the Republika Srpska poslanik, I think it is possible to find a solution only when you in the Federation sit down and agree on the moment you agree to agree that solution we will not obstruct, when you agree to an appointment. The National Assembly to bring business to an end. I think this is an example of how MPs from Republika Srpska did not show them as often as they did to the public. I congratulate, first of all, my colleagues from Republika Srpska and invite you from the Federation to an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u822	Thank you. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u823	Of course, we in Parliament must speak, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, in the words of democracy, we have a basic dictionary of democracy, when something unique is not passing, then it means that there was no passing in one body and the environment that had democratic control and a democratic ability to choose something. Therefore, this would be called a contradiction on the diet, i.e. on an act of law and on a fundamental act that is today made here in the process of democratisation. I am sorry too, and I regret that the proposal has not passed that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which are joined by the Social Democrats in secret, but given that the public is secret and secret is public, in many situations I would suggest that respect for the Rules of Procedure as Dr Genjac said and that he has already done as a proposal, to provide three days for consultation on the whole of the constitution of these 19 bodies, and as regards this consultation that is necessary for the rest of the working bodies, I also think it is right to draw up what is called the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that part I would like to connect with Mr Genjac and Mr Tokić's proposal, with that I would like to point out once again that we, as MPs, have been about an hour and a half ago, to take an oath in which there is no mention of any duplication of this Parliament, here are the MPs who are not set aside from the Republic, but the whole of this matter of the Treaty of the Treaty of the Republic, which has been a mattered to the Republic of Croatia. So I propose that consultations be ensured within three days that this assembly be divided into two parts, that the assembly be established at the next session and that immediately after that work session in relation to that reconstruction in the Council of Ministers and in relation to the Madrid Conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u824	Mr. Neven Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u825	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think I must start by respecting the Rules of Procedure, and I have no intention of giving any lectures other than asking all MPs to be delivered to their offices before any further work, because everyone is calling on the Rules of Procedure, and here I am among the HDZ representatives except one member, all the new members, therefore, give a session and we will move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u826	Thank you. At the first consultation meeting that was held a few days ago, the rules of procedure were given to representatives of all parliamentary parties, probably set off somewhere, will deliver them to every MP, but each party received the Rules of Procedure of the Interim Rules, seven days ago. The parties received a copy to multiply and give to their representatives. It's no problem to deliver any agents, please the Professional Services to do so. Let's move on. Here you go...
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u827	So it's a replica to Mr. Tokić. We agreed at a preparatory meeting three to four days ago to first select the chairman and co-chair so that they could further organise the whole process of selecting working bodies. I am still standing in those positions that this is better and we are putting into function the full responsibility which they will propose and how they will choose. For this reason again, for pragmatic reasons, I am becoming a question of the continuation of today’s session. I personally don't think it takes much time to make a deal. I personally don't think it's an essential question of who's sitting here, if we MPs are doing our job, and for that I'm stressing once again I'm asking you to consider the possibility of sitting down right now to take a break for an hour, I'm convinced there's no need for a bigger one, and that a compromise will be found and a solution will be found to democratically vote the entire presidency of the assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u828	So here we have a proposal that reflects the need for the leadership of the congregation to really win. Reported debater, please rear row. Here you go. It is a good thing MPs' clubs agree, therefore, that MPs' secluds consult, and after half an hour, party representatives meet again. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u829	Yes, it is perfectly natural for me to express regret that all MPs and MPs were not divided by the Rules of Procedure, perhaps many dilemmas would have been removed if that were the case. Since I borrowed the Rules of Procedure from my colleagues from the other party, he's been depriving him, and I'm going to have to pay him back. Please, according to the Poslonik, let's conclude one of our fellow Genjac that we're acting on the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say, if most of the votes, which we have failed now, do not include etc. from the territory, the chairman's commission and the deputies we haven't chosen yet, but we have you two until we choose others, they'll meet, so you two will meet and try to get a three-day vote confirmation, which means you should do it within three days, not meet in three days. So, here you go. Number one, give us a break and let's not play any more breaks. You see in 15 minutes with the club presidents, there's anything new you can do. If you cannot, please inform us in 15 minutes that in three days you will inform us in this summary of what you have agreed in those three days, that is, that we will now schedule a follow-up to the Rules of Procedure where your commission will inform us what you have agreed. In other words, those three days fall a little awkward on Sunday, I'm not a lawyer, I guess it'll certainly help, three days and then Monday, because Sunday doesn't count, so on Monday, if you, on Tuesday, I knew the lawyer would help. So, by Tuesday to execute us, to immediately agree that Tuesday's sequel, according to my colleague Dokić's Rules of Procedure, or sooner if agreed, if agreed in 15 minutes, you can now. Otherwise, don't just give us two or three more breaks here. My, therefore, conclusion by my colleague Genjac, in conclusion, I insist that you conclude that unless an agreement is reached within three days you must call us to the Rules of Procedure, that is all I insist.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u830	Of course, we'll give the word, just, so Lagumdžija ignores the fact that he's been involved as an equal member all along, the representative of one of the parties, so there's no here you agree and we agree, there are many coalitions out there today, you know, it was seen during the vote. So it's not 21 problems, you make me a deal. So, we all need to agree, all parliamentary sides, representatives of all parliamentary parties, because this is not a situation when we have the College of Parliament, this is one state of interregion between the mandate of one Assembly and the other. We co-ordinate the preparatory meetings of representatives of all parties and here the Rules of Procedure foresees, I am sorry that the parties did not, the Rules of Procedure foresees the following situation, so if the vote does not go as it did today, so the chairman and his deputies will meet and seek to reach agreement within three days of the vote, therefore, within three days may be within minutes or 72 hours. If these efforts fail, the majority of those present and voting will make a decision. On the condition that they vote against the decision, and do not include two-thirds or more delegates and members elected each. So now the situation is changing that those votes that are against the entity are counting, not the votes that are for the entity. So basically the proposals that are presented are reduced to the same. It takes MPs' clubs half an hour to meet to talk, followed by representatives of all the transits to agree. We have two debaters reported in the meantime. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u831	I'm just asking for a little patience. If we're going to be serious and if we're going to be doing business we need to work on the Rules of Procedure, and it's up to three days and three minutes later, if you want to be exact, so, three hours is three days and three minutes and 30 minutes, etc. Therefore, we had one proposal, if we were to vote to take a 15-minute break, that you should try talking to party representatives in 15 minutes and see if there can be a solution tonight, if you conclude that you can't, then disband the Assembly. So let's try something to do. We can't come from Republika Srpska on Monday or Tuesday, it's our assembly on Monday, and the practice is that it can go on the same way, you know. Okay, thank you. Polemics. Please. It's now 4.25 minutes. Up to five, i.e. MP clubs, in five party representatives in the same room of meetings. Break. You took this break for and worked on Members' clubs, in the second part to consult representatives of all parties. On the occasion, we have remained on the stand that further consultations are needed on the election of the chairman, respecting all these facts and the outcome of the vote and the circumstances and we have concluded that the continuation of the session is scheduled for seven days, in the meantime that both the necessary consultations and the meeting are being carried out. So, Tim, I declare this first part of the session and I'm done. Thank you. The seat's finished at 17.50. 22 End
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u833	I am opening the continuation of the first constitutional session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's House of Representatives. First of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the OHR and the OSCE, then Mr Mirko Zovko, President of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, present members of the Council of Ministers and, of course, the chairman and chairman of the Council of Ministers. First of all, I would like to inform you that out of the 42 MPs there are 38 MPs present, we have a quorum for judicial work and decision-making. As is known, we started the constitutive session seven days ago, on the agenda were four points, three points we mainly worked out until the fourth point concerning the election of the chairman and vice-president of the House of Representatives because of the familiar situation during the vote, we decided to take a break and to get the time needed to carry out consultations among the Members' clubs, because it is that we have the situation of establishing the House of Representatives, we have the leadership of the former, we need to choose leadership for the next term of office of two years, and this is how the Constitution provides for three members of the leadership, three members of the colleges of one of each nation. We have not appointed any special committee to prepare and consult the Members' clubs has been left behind, that the time left for seven days, to perform the necessary alignments and arrangements, and what the clubs have agreed we will probably have here today during the vote to see how we plead for individual representatives from and candidates who are running or will be run. In addition, in the previous session, we carried out the act of giving a solemn statement, part of the MPs, but all who were present were not present, the days were present, so first of all, those MPs who did not give the solemn invitation to perform the act. 23 That's the first thing and then we'll go to 4. The tačka of this first constitutive session of this second part of the constitutional session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's representative house. So, I call on the MPs, Professor. Medihu Filipović and Bičakčić Edhema to approach the act of giving a solemn statement. Making a solemn statement. Give it up. Before we start at 4. Several more important notes on the agenda. First of all, all MPs who have not done so should fill out the parliamentary charts that they will receive from professional services. All MPs who did not do so should then leave two photographs to make and divide parliamentary IDs, i.e. cards. For the next House of Representatives session that we are planning to hold next week and of course the newly elected leadership will prepare, but the orientation is next week. The second session of the House of Representatives is planned and the necessary points for the agenda are required to be held next week sometime in seven days. Until that session, we will, or the newly elected leadership, it should be this representative's home to distribute the positions of individual clubs in this room in the way that is normally the case in the parliaments of the world. Right now, we have a temporary schedule that some clubs have legitimate objections. At this next session, I am saying this for the reason that we have through the discussion this is what we plan to do and it would be necessary to put on the agenda the selection of the working bodies of the Assembly, certain issues of the work of parliamentary clubs to be resolved and the issue of preparation and topicality related to the Madrid Conference. After these opening remarks, I propose to move to the fourth item of the agenda: I will just remind you that we have had one round of motions one round of voting we had the situation that one candidate got the overhalf majority, but unqualified majority by entities, the other candidates didn't get a half majority, and the consultations were done in the way I said between the MPs' clubs and we will, because within three days it was necessary to appoint and carry out consultations, we did not carry out these consultations again and we did not carry out how the rules of procedure provided and because it was a candidate of the coalition, we withdrew the situation in some way from the situation concerning a different way of voting, and we propose that the re-proposal of all candidates from all three peoples and that the re-vote be carried out. If one of the MPs' clubs in the meantime had different views or different arrangements, I would ask for it to be brought forward, but this is the attitude that somehow contains everything that I can assess and that it happened in that assembly that between the congregations it happened and it comes down to the following, that it would be necessary to re-candidate candidates from all peoples and vote as the rules of procedure stipulates for one and a half candidates with the required majority of votes as well as the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I call on MPs and Members' clubs to implement the proposal of a candidate for the leadership of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's House of Representatives. 24 Here's Mr Mustafa Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u834	Dear gentlemen, the Coalition Club for the Full and Democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina will again propose to this candidate Halid Genjac, again as last time I don't think that the arguments are needed by Mr. Genjac we all know, and we want it to be our candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u835	Thank you. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u836	Dear ladies and gentlemen, unlike the predecessors of the lady, distinguished guests, the HDZ Club remains on its proposal. We suggest Mr. Per Skopljak.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u837	Thank you. Mrs. Suada Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u838	I am Suada Muminagić, Honored Presidency in front of the Social Democratic Party of the Social Democrats and the New Croatian Initiative, we remain at the proposal of Tokić Sejfudin and Ivan Mijačević. At the same time, we propose to hold a secret vote for the candidates since last time we failed in the way of voting to secure it.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u839	Thank you. I'd like further suggestions. Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u840	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members, esteemed guests, in front of us, so we propose RS for one of the chairmans, or chairman as chairman or one of the vice-presidents, Mr. Banjac Mirko, so we stay with the proposal that we have already highlighted for the last time for a simple reason, I have already explained it, here I will briefly try to do it again. So, this proposal is effectively agreed to go ahead of the SDS, the Serbian Radical Party, the Coalition of Syllabics and in this context and in that proposal in any case goes my vote ahead of the Radical Party of RS. So it is a concerted proposal for Mr. Banjac Mirko to be one of the vice-presidents or chairmans of the future college of this high House. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u841	Thank you. I have to intervene, the leadership of the Assembly is not composed by the principle of entity representation, but by the principle of three peoples, the Srbin Bošnjak and Hrvat, so we have that in mind, please. You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u842	Mr. Chairman, this intervention of yours is only partly established under the Rules of Procedure, but it is decident under the Dayton Agreement, so it is here that one of the candidates in the order of the Serbian people must therefore be a Srbin, and here our proposal went right in front of the entity, therefore, in front of the RS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u843	Of course, which does not mean that a member of the Serbian people cannot be from the Federation, therefore the possibility of a Rules of Procedure is not excluded and the Constitution allows it. Further suggestions, please. Any other suggestions? As far as I can see, no debates have been reported, I conclude that there are no new proposals and I find that the following are proposed: from the Bosniak people Genjac Halid and Tokić Sejfudin, representative of the Serbian people Banjac Mirko and candidates from the Croatian people Skopljak Pero and Ivan Mijačević. We agreed last time to hold the vote in order that the presidency would also be held. The Bosniak and the Hrvat and we will vote in that order. Have we proposed that the vote be held in secret, therefore by a secret vote in order to make a statement, and I am obliged to make this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, which is quite legitimate to put back on the vote. Before joining the voting act. Who is it to respect the proposal by the MPs, Ms Muminagić Suada, to carry out the vote in secret? Who's in? Who's against the vote being held in secret? I find that of the 39 present in the meantime another MP has arrived, of the 39 MPs present, 7 was to hold the vote publicly, against 22, abstentioned 9. Therefore, the proposal did not receive the required majority of votes, and as the Rules of Procedure stipulates, we will hold the vote in a way that will win and require the majority of those present, so the candidate is accepted and the one who gets the required majority of those present and has one-third of the votes from each entity at the same time. In turn, as presented in the order of the people as agreed, I am putting Bosniak candidates to the vote, and I urge you to plead out, who is it that one of the chairmans of the Bosniak People's House of Representatives is Genjac Halid? Who's in? It's for 31. We have to go after the entities. So that's what most of the 39, thirty-one people in attendance need to see. Please, from the Federation's space, who's in favour? 26 17 votes from the Federation's space are required 10, 17, so the quota has been met. Please from the RS space who's in? From the RS space, it takes 5 votes, it has 14. Therefore, a qualified majority is required. We'll put another candidate to the vote, since it's a proposal. Who is it to be of the order of the Bosniak people one of the chairmans of Sejfudin Tokić? Who's in? Seven for it. Since it's not necessary, then that's where the count's done. Who's against it? Seven. Who's restrained? So, two candidates -- candidate Genjac -- received 31 votes for the required entity-qualified majority. Sejfudin Tokić as the second candidate won seven votes. Therefore, I find it necessary for the majority and qualified majority for one of the presidency's House of Representatives to elect Genjac Halid. Thank you. We move to vote for a member, or one of the Serb people's chairmans. As is known, one candidate is proposed and it is Banjac Mirko. I call on the MPs to plead, who is to be one of the chairmans of the Serb people, Banjac Mirko. Who's in? Thank you. The necessary quantitative majority is to hold a vote on entities. Please, from the Federation's space, who is it that one of the chairmans is Mr. Banjac? Thank you. It takes most of the Federation's space. Please from the RS space, who's in? 13 therefore needs most of them from the RS space. Since there were no other candidates, I find that both the majority and entity-qualified representation of the vote for one of the chairmans, i.e. for the chairmans of the Serb people, was elected Mr. Banjac Mirko. Thank you. We are moving to vote for one of the presidents of the Croatian people. Two candidates, Mr. Skopljak and Mr. Mijačević, have been proposed. So, Skopljak's Pero and Mijačević Ivan. In the order of the motion I put to the vote. Who is it that one of the chairmans of the House of Representatives or representative of the Croatian people in the College of the House of Representatives will be Skopljak Pero to plead by raising his hands, who is in favour? 16 for. Of the 39 present, it does not require most votes in excess. It would take 20 or 19. Since most votes are not required, most votes are not required either by entities. 27 I am putting forward a second proposal for a candidate by putting this vote to an end for and against. So, 16 is for, who's against Skopljak Pero being a candidate? Who's restrained? So 16 for, 8 against and 14 abstentions. It's a voting situation, I'm finding out for the record. I am putting another candidate for one of the presidents, namely the candidate of the Croatian people, that is Mijačević Ivan. I call upon the messengers to declare by raising hands who is for Mijačević Ivana? So 9 for - no required majority was received, but I'll lead the vote to the end. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I understand that candidate Mijačević received 9 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 24 abstentions. On the other hand, I find that candidate Mijačević Ivan did not get the necessary majority and the necessary representation. I find that a member of the College, or one of the chairmans, or candidate from the Croatian people, has not been elected, which will, of course, require subsequent consultations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank all MPs for the confidence shown and, realizing that we have chosen from three required two candidates, I am concluding this follow-up to the 1st constitutive session. Thank you. Mrs. Havel answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u844	I apologize - if a break is given, if it isn't, I'm begging in front of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u845	So, the Club of Members of the HDZ has asked for a break - how much please? - Half an hour. Pause I have been informed that all MPs present at today's session have taken their seats and, as you can see, newly elected counterpart Banjac has taken his place, the HDZ Parliament Club has requested a half-hour break and we have just finished this break. I call on the representative of the HDZ Club or the president of the HDZ Club to present, if necessary, a position or what was the theme of the club's consultation. Mrs. Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u847	I welcome ladies and gentlemen, we had a need to make arrangements regarding the Rules of Procedure. At this point, I wouldn't do anything else -- we'll continue our consultation on our member for the deputy of this high house. But right now I'd like to react right now, this session if we continue to be old, then the newly elected shouldn't be sitting here. If we have a new 28th session, then an old representative of the Croatian people shouldn't be here. Therefore, the place of representatives of the Croatian people is vacant and it should not be filled until completed in this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u848	Mr. Banjac has asked for a word. I'll give Mr. Banjac my word and that's one of the reasons he came to this place, so we'll solve the case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u849	Dear Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the presidency, I would like to thank all of you who voted for me as a member of the Presidency of this high house in the order of the Serbian people. I hope that the time before us will be entrenched by cooperation in the interest of implementing the Dayton Agreement. Secondly, I would like to suggest that this high house draws the following conclusion: As regards yesterday's events, I propose that this high house condemns the existence of the secret lists of the UN tribunal because these secret lists do not contribute to the implementation of the Dayton Agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please make this high house known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u850	I hope that any other MPs on this issue will get involved in the debate. However, I must remind the UN tribunal's jurisdiction, the provisions of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Dayton Agreement concerning the UN tribunal and all conventions adopted by the constitution. Therefore, I must express my concern that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have the authority to influence the work of the International Tribunal in The Hague in such a way. So that's my note. [[speaking from the place of Banjac]] So, I appreciate the observation of the HDZ Representatives Club. The question can be asked whether to keep the new one until the election is over. It's a question where they can solve, discuss it. However, I feel the need for Mr. Lozancič and the work he has done so far for the co-operation he has made and for all that we have managed to resolve and agree on in the current period - to thank Mr. Lozančić, hoping, of course, and future such co-operation. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u852	Dear Members of the Parliament, I did not dispute either the slow jurisdiction of the UN tribunal - however, I respect them, but the slow existence of secret lists, because they lead neither to the creation of trust nor to the rapid and better implementation of the Dayton Agreement. So my basic observation and my desire to get rid of it is that this high house, respecting 29 responsibilities, and that's not contrary to the Dayton Agreement, it doesn't stand anywhere -- if it says that you can have secret lists, let someone tell me where it is, and let the public lists exist. Because we don't all feel threatened now, because, please, a secret list can go whoever it wants, I don't want that kind of situation. Our contribution should be constructive, because we are here responsible for implementing the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u853	We have three reported -- Mr Silajdžić, Mr Lagumdžija and Mr Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u854	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs and deputies, I must say, I am a little surprised by this proposal, because above all we have no authority over The Hague tribunal, the Hague tribunal may have a public and may have secret lists. If secret lists help to punish war criminals, then it is good for all of us, and especially for this Parliament. So if secret lists can help solve a very important issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is holding us back from integration with the world and Evropa, then I think that's good. I don't feel threatened by secret lists. We don't feel threatened here because we're not war criminals. If whoever did war crimes in Srebrenica or anywhere else is supposed to feel threatened, I think it's in the interest of all of us - to implement the Dayton Agreement first of all. On the contrary, I think secret lists help establish trust, not vice versa, but trust me to say so on a new basis with everything. On the basis of the truth, not the basis of hiding, especially those who are war criminals. I've been talking to a professor before. Filipović on a break and I asked her how is our accession matter in the Council of Europe? She'll probably have a press conference about it and it would be good for our public to know. The main problem is the fact that war crimes suspects are not in The Hague and that we as a BiH state have not handed them over. They see us as a BiH state, all of our representatives there are pushing for us to join Eurp as soon as possible, however, the answer is that we must meet the minimum requirements set there. I believe that Mr. Bičakčić will confirm it, because as far as I know, they're working together on it. So unless these people are brought in, we probably won't be able to become members of the Council of Europe in April and May. It is in our interest that the European integration of BiH into Europe, this bothers us. If public or secret lists help and help us finally know who did what, then I'm also a secret list. I think we're going to improve trust between us, not the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u855	Thank you. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u856	I apologize for having to talk like this. Gentlemen, the main postulate of democracy is the public's work. It's a basic postulate. We all say here that we will develop and build, improve democratic relations. I didn't think so, but I'm saying there's nowhere in the Dayton Agreement that the Hague tribunal can have one and the other lists. If that tribunal is working in a factual state, and I hope so, then 30 has no basis for anything secret. I ask the question – how are there public lists that do not endanger secrecy and secrets that do not endanger the public. How is that possible? I don't understand! I want to be answered for what it is. Which means secret lists help these people, does that mean they're getting away with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u857	The tribunal does not, of course, deal with democracy, but deals with war crimes suspects. Replica – Mr Silajdžić, then Lagumdžija, then Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u858	I don't usually go out twice, this is a very important thing to me. War crimes in Bosnia were also tombs of mass which are being excavated. Whether it was public and whether we can serve the postulates of democracy, illuminating the most serious crime against humanity after World War II in Europe, can we now call on the principles of democracy on openness and publicity to help. I think it will help all of us, gentlemen, if no matter how this Hague tribunal works on public or secret lists, these people will be discovered. If it is necessary to be secret, then I think we should all vote in favour of the UN tribunal that does this and those people who do this work. Not one nation, not one citizen in BiH can contribute if one of the war criminals remains unscrupulous just because he is secret and public. The second thing is the International Community. I have an objection, too, dear fellow, to the International Community, because when these war crimes were almost public, then she did not have the proper political will to say to stop them, so now she has to serve the secret lists, so unfortunately these crimes were to a good extent very often and publicly. That's when it was supposed to react. This is a late reaction, but in any case all that contributes to it, I am in favour of holding the Hague tribunal exactly the opposite, anything that can be done whoever is guilty, even for one life, to answer there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u859	Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u860	Dear Representative Tomić asked me when I was coming here if it was an amendment, no, it's not an amendment, it's a law. Namely, offered by Mr. Banjac, who I think has raised a question that is safe for this home to plead and that should not be disputed, I would make a small contribution to his proposal. Namely, for those who know this, who were in the previous assembly in this House, to remind you, on May 8, last year, one of the people who is now an MP in this House has been arrested on charges of war crimes, not Đedović, it is about Mr Ivan Mijačević, and then we referred the request of the competent institutions to our insistence, he sent a request to the Hague tribunal to give and to comply with the so-called. The rules of the road and the Treaty of Rome are delivered or released by Mr. Mijačević or The Hagu. The day after that, on the 9th of May of last year, maybe there are some symbols in it, it's Victory Day against Fascism, I've sent as an MP in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I don't need to call on members, it's more or less you know, the Law of Conditions and the way the state judicial authorities treat war criminals. The 31st law was about a year away from the parliamentary procedure, and at the end of one session last session, it received most of the votes, but it was not subject to the end of the procedure, because one third of the entity was missing, and then we should have completed that procedure by the end. If I hadn't come to the conclusion of this procedure right now, I would have used Mr. Banjac's proposal to suggest, that for the first next session, as far as I'm concerned, we could schedule it right now, that's the session where we're going to talk about Madrid, and maybe by talking about Madrid, it's not bad enough for us to open this topic up right here, because it would be a great contribution to the Madrid Conference, so that this agenda point, conditionally speaking, we can reshape it, I would be very inclined to use the law on the terms and manner of handling of the competent state and judicial authorities regarding the punishment of war criminals, other words, the law which has four members and which will receive in preparation for the next session on the Hague tribunal. Here we have Mr. Skopljak who was the candidate Mrs. Havel said, he already cooperated, watch out, we have two men here – Mr. Mijačević was wanted, so they said no, thank you, we don't need in The Hague, there are no elements - there are no elements. Mr. Skopljak was, so he came back from there, freed us. It's a completely different case. So, there's no reason not to put order in this area and in this light, I think it would be good, maybe if you wanted to open up today's debate on this subject, but if we as Parliament call today all the state authorities of all levels, that according to the Constitution of BiH -- the dejtonski, carry out their obligations to public lists, so when they commit to public lists, there will be a lot of traffic there in The Hague, these secrets will then wait a little bit. But since they're not publicly realized, then they're probably after a secret. So maybe it wouldn't be bad if we put it to a vote today, so I suggest: 1. A new session of the agenda agenda at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the rest that goes with it, in whose jurisdiction this judiciary is, to prepare us with appropriate information. If we have to plead today, I think it would be a good idea to support all state authorities to co-operate on public lists so that secrets don't have to, so to speak, activate. 2. By using my business rights, I propose this law and ask it to be included in the regular procedure. I'll give it to you, fellow Genjac, again, so the first time there's a chance to do it, and one little comment I have to make. Lately, there's been a lot of talk here about creating around the UN tribunal a psycho one atmosphere by which we all need to be afraid of that court. I would ask MPs here not to use that rhetoric especially in this house, here's to say neither I nor anyone from any party I represent is afraid of it. Narpotiv, please don't create psychosis on an entire nation or the citizens of this country should be afraid of it. Every nation and all citizens of this country should fear that this court is not doing its job and that the competent state institutions are not cooperating with that court, so such methods must be applied that objectively lead to a solution until we here with ourselves resolve that we must cooperate with this court in the right way. I would ask to use this as a right to replication and here is not the category of collective fear I repeat, neither I nor anyone from the SDP, and as far as I'm concerned, I would even suggest, if they say, MPs, MPs, the largest home, that 32 immediately we give written consent here as MPs that in the beginning we will respond voluntarily to any invitation of such a court. Here you go. Let's show it that way. If that's the problem, if we're 32 to say, please, we're not afraid. We have two men who were gone who didn't call them. We have two men who are no longer afraid of it. Skopje and Mijačević have reason not to be afraid anymore, for 40 of us others to sign, but now that you can't move on, Skopljak'm waiting to pick you up from HDZ or you or someone else so I can congratulate this coalition that existed for eight years and broke down for seven days and now it's back on its feet again. I mean, I don't want to congratulate you in advance, but we'll congratulate you, and you'll figure it out. Can I ask you a question, Mr. Silajdžić? Which coalition, Mr. Silajdžić. As part of the topic, is Mr Silajdžić within the topic, so he can speak without permission, do we introduce it as a rule? I know I've talked a lot about war criminals, I don't doubt it. So, I'll bring my discussion to an end. I'm looking for a statement on my proposals, Mr. Genjac, I need to repeat them, and I'm taking the opportunity to ask this gentleman from the CD Coalition not to use congregation breaks to call press conferences that will charge us with what we've been doing after this rumor. I don't know if I made myself clear. Please, Mr. Silajdžić, come out for a pay phone. I'll be happy to explain everything you need to be explained, but I'm afraid you'll have a little time. I'm asking you no longer to throw me in the sense of don't philosophize or anything like that, I've been listening to your philosophizing for a little longer than you seem comfortable.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u861	Please misunderstanding caused the word "coalition", please, Mr Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u862	Mr. Genajc's misunderstanding has caused the co-chair and member of this house to be thrown at me to be a philosopher here, although he's been sitting here for two years and philosophizing here in an unconstitutional position.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u863	Thank you. Probably when it was mentioned that there was a coalition waiting to be congratulated there was a coalition and it was thought to congratulate, so the other one turned out to be a misunderstanding. That's why it caused it, but I have 3 or 4 registered debaters, I have recorded proposals and I ask MP Lagumdžija to leave this bill to us at the vote, so the following has been reported in a row: Mr Tokić, Mr Deretić, Malkić and Mrs Filipović and Mr Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u864	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it was great to hear this story about who's on the subject, I'm asking you what we now have as a part of the agenda. 33 You gentlemen have chosen one another as you chose in 1990, Silajdžić voted for Mr. Banjac, Banjac voted for Mr. Halid Genjac, you will not take away my word, please wait for me to open a new topic for you, and the subject is essential. To give me the word, you must keep quiet, it is a fundamental postulate that one story in the congregation hall and you will have to respect that postulate. The theme is this: For eight years, or nine years, you have been making a farce in which you have voted here, you have left out the HDZ, SDS and the SDA alone for voting for each other, after complaining about stories that have nothing to do with solving people's problems, you are turning this parliament into a parliament that doesn't exist anywhere in Europe, whether war criminals will answer. Individually, they're responding. You're turning this parliament into a sow like you might be doing somewhere, which is that someone can come out of the middle, and you can take a look at this pay phone and discuss it responsibly. So, I suggest we end the debate whether or not we should go to The Hague, whether there are secret lists or not. Everyone has reason to be afraid and scared and scared and scared. We will insist not on the next and for Mr. Per Skopljak who returned, not for the next and mandates of the people, but for the next 15-20 years, for every individual crime, and it was just as he was made in Sarajevo, individually according to one man, was done massily as it was in Srebrenica. But this House, Mr. Banjac, you have no right to turn it into a talking room about what no one in Europe is asking as a question. I asked SDA MPs to tell me who that candidate was, because I didn't know your biography. You immediately presented here, in the leadership of the Assembly, there can be no man sitting in my mind who contests the law of The Hag and the Tribunal in The Hag, whose mandate is in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement to do his job. We're also talking about secret and public charges, what about public charges? Why is there no Karadžić, Mladić The Hag, for which they do not go and apply? I kept insisting on the war crimes suspect, I never talked about war criminals, and, of course, I spoke fast and talked, and don't worry, the crimes will come a lot, and someone who confidently talks about it will come and they're worried. Every crime they commit, and he's made according to the political concept, Mr. Silajdžić, tied to two or three flags, which you only occasionally tie up when you split the chairs and now who in the next two years would re-read the principles allegedly. Stop this debate, let's talk about Madrid, let's talk about whether first it can sit like this, first I'm talking about you two, one that gives to his coalition boss to speak from the chair, another device past the agenda functioning of the tribunal in The Hague. In my mind, I suggest we re-enact ourselves with regard to Mr. Banjac's discussion of his term here and given the more conduct Mr. Genjac, on your mandate, and please put it to the vote in secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u865	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. Mr. Tokić is largely right, namely, if we leave this rapsage, there will still be extra fog here, such as The fog that is the basis among other things in Srebrenica and the party he talks about and about binding the flags. So that's the first fact I've learned from this device. That's one thing. The other thing I'll give everyone's words and ways of making suggestions put them to a vote. 34 Mr. Banjac answered the line.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u866	Dear Ambassador Tokić, don't take you for the right to convince yourself of anything that suits you, and especially keep your adrenaline from jumping, because when your emotions grow, your senses fall. And please don't, if you have a stenogram here, I ask that the tape be released immediately, I didn't say that, and if you want to use this pay phone for your political promotion, I understand that, but I don't justify it. I said that I absolutely respect the Dayton Agreement, that I absolutely respect and respect the Hague tribunal, but that I believe that it does not contribute to the fact that there are secret lists of implementation of the Dayton Agreement in these areas. Please, you want to deny me the right to think, you want to deny me the right to suggest you know that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I have the right to do so, you can be against it and without insulting me, I can tell you a lot of things and not insult you, I have no intention. But, sir-pity, don't force this on the people's mill that's being arranged for you. Listen, you take your stand as you think you should, and I'll respect that. But also give me the right to take the kind of attitude that suits me, and for what I have the facts, I do not dispute either the existence or the resolution of it, but one procedure that I think is not in line with democracy, it seems to me that Mr Lagumdžija and said that it becomes a secret list has some kind of badness, that it has some kind of bad side or background. In part of his discussion seemed to me told, I apologize if I did, if I did. Furthermore, it's not my idea to spread this, gentlemen, so to learn that we are democratically working here, to make a statement about every proposal, so should we now hang it all up, then I'm going to suggest something else that will not be voted upon by you. For what? There are people here who have the right to an opinion. And now you want to judge me, sir, because I think so. You want me to be convicted because I suggest it, I will neither accuse you nor condemn you. And please don't deny me that right. Therefore, I think that all international orhanisations should be respected in the scale of the Dayton Agreement that they should be within the mandate entrusted to them with the Dayton Agreement and should not come out of a mandate that is not entrusted to them. And that's why I stand for it. And nothing else. And what the gentleman says about the law. Dear Mr. MP, this matter is on an entity basis and does not fall within the circle of solving this high house, which can be seen from the authority of the BiH Constitution. And please don't go into a procedure that isn't us. How they're going to act, it's a matter of MPs in entities, let's let them do it and let them handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u867	Thank you. Mr. Deretić, please. Replication of Ambassador Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u868	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, In order not to get wasted, I would first like to conclude that I did not say that public lists are bad, secret lists I apologize, that the secret lists are bad, but I repeat the findings and I am standing behind it and I pray that it is very clear that it is bad that public lists are not implemented on the basis of full co-operation of all the competent authorities on BiH's official territory from the central to the lowest local ones and that it produces the situation to use and secret lists, because this does not function, it is my claim, and in this light of not to confuse the rules of Mr Genajc, I propose only from all my here discussions of conclusions, suggestions and so on. to put to the vote that this whole debate shows that this Parliament needs very clear and precise clarification of what obligations are to be made for the war crimes court in this country. And in this light, I am running for the next session of the agenda, which is called that the competent ministry prepares an introduction for us, which is called "Achieving Obligations under the Dayton Agreement in the domain of prosecution, punishing wartime people accused of war crimes and co-operation of war crimes institutions". And in that 9m light as a contribution, I put my law in the process and, in addition, consider it a legitimate request for Mr Banjac to be prepared for the debate on the agenda at the regular session and to discuss the things he has now launched, not to argue with the fact that I do not agree with his position, but I allow him the right and I think that his discussion has opened up the space and the need for this House to finally, after two years or three years of Dejton to plead. If it's competent, they'll decide it's not nice and I'll grind it, let's go to the ground, let the Council of Ministers come out with a proposal and tell us it's not in our jurisdiction. No problem, we can talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u869	Mr. Tokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u870	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked that this debate be terminated, and it has been a business provision, and I have asked that we make a statement on the mandate, I do not dispute that everything that anyone thinks is to be presented here, but the slow possibility that someone who contests the activities of the tribunal in The Hague today-to-morrow will preside over this high House, or if you want to do better, I would like to see your hands again for your candidate, from Mustafa Pamuk, Hris Silajdžić, Bičakčić, I would like to see very much, I want to see those hands express yourself on this issue. And Mr. Banjac, be careful you just watch out I've been in parliamentary procedure for a long time and I've survived everything, so you don't have to worry about my adrenaline, but you have to follow the logic of your performance, you're about to perform like this. I insist that this tall House pleads on secret charges, and after we say we open the debate and even sanction it legally, then forget what she said before, what her mouth said five minutes ago and says it's not within the jurisdiction of this House. Mr. Banjac, don't make such illogicalness, if it isn't in the jurisdiction of this high house, you shouldn't even mention it, and I don't think it's thanks to Bog in the jurisdiction of this House where most of those who have tied the flags of the SDA, SDS and HDZ jurisdiction and the activity of The Hag, because, yes, The Hag wouldn't be, it's quite clear to me. All happiness is not in the jurisdiction, and in that sense I agree 36 with you, so don't even move that question here with less or more patience wait for the Hague if your conscience is calm don't give you any reason, if there are many, if there are people who are much uncertain to go to The Hague, go away and come back. I know a gentleman who was at The Hague in Milorad Dodik and sent a postcard to some of them and said no problem, so I think you who participated in the leadership should resolve your patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u871	Mr. Banjac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u872	I apologize again there's an incorrect allegation. Dear Mr. Tokić, because I really need to repeat once again that I am not disputing anyone's authority and I have said it publicly, and you say again that it is... who I ask you to listen to. Would you like a stenogram to repeat, let's do it, let's please let the stenogram see where I said it, and don't ask who the hell I didn't tell you again, and if you want it to not be possible, you know that the basic right of an MP is that he has the right to express his opinion, and you're asking me to swear on his opinion, for God's sake? What's your goal? I know, but I don't want him going out of the institution of this tall house and don't do it again. Listen, if you need to, please listen to the stenogram before you go out, see that I didn't say that, so come out and say, you didn't say that. I didn't say I didn't. You want to insist on putting on my soul that I have challenged the authority of a high tribunal. That's not true. I repeat, no. I say that everything that is done secretly does not contribute to democratisation, nothing else, and I claim that this should be done publicly. Nothing else. If it's a questionable thing to do in public, then it's something else. I respect your attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u873	Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u874	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, given the proposal made by Mr. Banjac - therefore, this was the case and suggested that this House of Representatives be declared secret lists of suspected war crimes suspects in the context of our future work. So, as the most legislative institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would be the conclusion, because it is absolutely unequivocally true that we cannot decide here at all for the simple reason why it is not in the management of the House of Representatives or the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but, if I recall correctly, Mr Banjac has suggested that we go with one conclusion in the best way that the secret lists do not contribute to our future work that should be seen precisely in creating mutual trust among the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact is, as far as these lists are concerned, we are all well known by the Dayton Agreement that however the Dayton Agreement was brought on the basis of and has emerged from a system of legal which is absolutely unknown to us, except for normal people who deal with it as a profession, therefore the Anglo-Sanxone system, in our 37 criminal laws and in the entity of Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Secret Charges, there is no list, because our legal system is otherwise based and belongs to so-called. the intercontinental or European continental system and in this context for us and otherwise the secret indictments are something new that we have not met before, avo until the Dayton Agreement is signed. The indisputable fact is, Mr. Banjac, at least for a moment, that's how I figured it out, he didn't want to allude to yesterday's event, he just mentioned it in the context of what every citizen, objectively, Bosnia and Herzegovina who was in the army could find. I'm not ashamed of being a Republika Srpska army soldier, I'm not ashamed of being wounded there. However, I know that my conscience is clean, but for me as a lawyer is illogical in this system of ours that today-to-morrow, as one of my distinguished colleagues said earlier, did Mr Lagumdžija, that today anyone who can guarantee that Deretić will not be brought into The Hague, so end after five years, where I should prove my innocence. By the time I prove that I'm innocent, I'm gonna end up like the X people who ended up there. One more thing, I would like here only for this speaker to mention one term that I very rarely use, one great hypocrisy, because it seems to me that there are a lot of people from 1992 to today in these areas who have participated well in everything that has happened in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the question of whether it will ever be found on the UN war crimes list. In the context of that, I'd be free, if you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'll only suggest one concrete conclusion in the context of Mr. Banjac's proposal. So, a conclusion in front of this House of Representatives, which could possibly be considered and brought. Therefore, according to which the existence of secret lists of war crimes suspects do not contribute to the mutual trust of MPs in the House of Representatives, and it is proposed that they be made public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u875	Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u876	I welcome all the distinguished gentlemen present at today's session of this high house. I did not go out to discuss, I have a replica, although my name was not mentioned, the replica refers to Mr Silajdžić's discussion, who said what he had still doesn't care if others have anything to say. In part, at the discussion of Mr Lagumdžija and Tokić, i.e. it is a replica of the thoughts that are common in these three discussions, which are thoughts that say approximately - I do not feel threatened, I am sure - people who were in The Hag are mentioned, and fortunately returned, etc. You see, I agree with those thoughts 100%, even in that part of it, I don't feel threatened. However, I know the twins who were in The Hague - they are Srbin, so it is said: by mistake arrested - you can go. They don't have one kidney today, they have broken arms, legs, broken teeth and disabled for the rest of their lives, which is certainly shorter than they probably would have been without The Hag. I know other cases, but what's the difference? These are called Petar or Dušan, and these are called different. So I don't think there's any excuse to say that a man who didn't commit a crime can't have fears of being on a secret list. So much this time. It was just a replica, and if there was a need, the discussion would look completely different. Thank you. 38 [[speaks from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u877	I'm gonna tražić for a break right now. There's only one thing, there's four debaters reported before you got the word. Whoever wants to discuss after the break will leave, whoever will, please, I have Mrs Filipović reported.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u878	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we all took an oath -- me today, and you, a few days ago -- which we committed ourselves to honoring the Dayton Agreement and not representing our own people here, but to represent all citizens, to represent all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would not talk about these general places that others have spoken of, but I would specifically put forward two proposals on the previous proposal of the Banjac MP. So my proposal is that this Parliament representing all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks all those in charge of all the war crimes suspects to surrender themselves to The Hague tribunal. So if we're going to initiate something, let's initiate what the whole world expects of us. Some people who are suspected and will be charged and released to The Hague are allowed to surrender themselves to the UN tribunal, not to be bought by the angry wolves in BiH. That's my first proposal. And my second proposal, if we're going to send some appeal to the Hague tribunal, let's send an appeal that we don't support the secret lists, that we're asking that there's only one list and that public list, so all those on the secret list should be transferred to the public list, because our peoples have the right to know the full names and last names of those who have committed war crimes. There's my two suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u879	Thank you, Mrs Filipović. The next order was reported to me, Mr Tomić, Mr Malkić, Mr Bičakčić and Špirić. Mr. Tomić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u880	Ladies and gentlemen, honored representatives, I would like to say that I understand Mr Banjac and this in view of the situation that took place yesterday and his reaction, but I am joining those debaters who asked to put this matter on the agenda of this parliament and that BiH's relations with The Hag offices in an institutional and correct manner and I fully support and support Mrs Filipović's discussion, let the lists be made public, but must know who is working on behalf of BiH with The Hag? How are the information coming to The Hag, from The Hag, etc? After last elections two years ago, the court president in The Hague came to BiH and asked for a new memorandum on BiH's co-operation -- the Dayton BiH with The Hague, and to establish 39 institutions to co-operate on it. Unfortunately for thinking that this is not a matter of BiH, but an entity, and here is Mr. Banjac, today's reaction to me, confirms that we have to resolve this issue at BiH level and the Presidency confirmed it later by electing liaison officers. However, work and relations with The Hag have continued to brighten the public, under the light of this Parliament and under any other institutional relations. For the sake of all of us and not to have any Per Skopljak and Zejnil Delalić and this year, which the lady mentioned before me, the lists should be public and I support the whole and should be worked on but the relationship between the Hag must be public and in this context we have even proposed and advocated the establishment of an institution, office or anything at the Council of Ministers or with the Presidency to discuss these issues. I therefore propose that what we have all said today practically through our thinking not entering into any controversyal tones and reasoning that our conclusion is that the issue of relations with The Hag is one of the points of the agenda of this Parliament and that it be included in the programme of work that should be adopted I hope at one of the next sessions of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u881	Mr. Banjac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u882	I beg not to be interpreted again, but to know the meaning of the proposal. In order to make this Parliament's work more efficient and to create trust and to scale with the Dayton Agreement, I have proposed a conclusion, which is essentially identical to the second conclusion by Mrs Filipović. As far as recapitalizing ingenuity, don't let me, gentlemen, I didn't suggest any takeover because it's unreal, and don't add that I agree with what I'm not, that I suggest what I'm not, put the proposal back where it is. What, are you suggesting otherwise, it's your thieving, I'm not contesting it, but I didn't do it. Ingencies are known when it comes to co-operation and I pray that it is not mentioned, just that, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u883	Mr. Malkić. Please, the replica is a false allegation, it has the right to react, you're wrong, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u884	Dear gentlemen, as an MP of my origin from Srebrenica, it is not that I am disappointed but that I am frustrated with the discussion that Mr. Banjac presented. But why am I trying to make them covert accusations? You know very well how many people have been accused publicly of genocide that has occurred over 12,000 pieces of silver. Two Mladić, Karadžić and Erdemović who won the prize. That's why I'm nervous about being undercover and that all those who answer, who are guilty and guilty, have the feeling that they're guilty and that they're thinking about their lives. They do not belong to everything in this House of Representatives or BiH institutions and those who do not respect them, and especially war criminals. You know well that a psychopath kills two or 40 three, four or 50 people, and in Srebrenica, 12 thousand were killed, and there can't be two or three people. There's more people out there. And that's exactly what I'm up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u885	Thank you. Next up, Mr. Bullock, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u886	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, seems to me that the agenda of today's session has gone far beyond its scope and that we have gone from what was planned for today, I think that the chairman of Banajc, rather than the newly elected, has taken advantage of the opportunity to add, with thanks, a theme that draws attention, so I don't know now how to finish this point that wasn't planned or set off. I don't think it should be finished in any way and that we should interrupt it without any statement. And if, however, we want to make a statement and if it is going towards a decision, then as one of the proposals, I would like to propose that this Parliament send a special telegram of support and gratitude to the SFOR commander at the shown determination to be suspected of war crimes by The Hague tribunal as soon as possible. That way we'll certainly help bring people back to their homes, which is Anext 7. The Dayton Agreement, because people can't come back if war criminals are free to walk around. What methods will be used by public, secret, I think is within the jurisdiction of The Hague Court and we should support all possible methods that will allow war crimes suspects to be brought to justice. So if we're going to make a statement about the proposal, I'm asking that we come forward about this telegram too, and professional services know how to make fine telegrams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u887	Thank you. We have another debater, Mr. Špirić, now or after the break? So Mr. Tokić requested a 10-minute break. I'm declaring a break of 10 minutes. [[continuing after break]] So, the break we had the next reported debater was MP Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u888	Gentlemen Chairman, Dear fellow Members of Parliament and dear guests, I was of course coming to this session I thought that as serious MPs in one new time in a new spirit we would try to talk to those who look at us from the entity of Republika Srpska, and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, give little hope that people who want to think in one light have come. 41 I have a feeling that today I was in a pre-election campaign, in which there are always topics that have been set or reached, the rules of homogenisation and created space for what unfortunately did not happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only during our lives, this is the space that has had three war discharges in the last 100 years, but we MPs as serious people are asked to make a small move to make it impossible for generations to come. You see, the government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or a complex state composed of Republika Srpska and the Federation of two equal entities and three equal-minded peoples, has been implemented so that after the war, the international community has installed its kind of assistance. Introduces human rights indictees, then informs and for the judiciary, and courts of The Hague court, etc. By fighting for the degree of sovereignty of the Entires and Bosnia and Herzegovina, you recognise in Dayton, we will fight by slowly rejecting these aids as mature and more serious people and not calling for help whenever we have to fight. Crimes are an individual thing, all that a man does in life is good or evil, he'll charge for either good or evil, and the general thesis is that they don't get old. If we want to help citizens and peoples in both entities, then we will first solve it, at least that's how I realized those things that contribute to the prosperity of both entities, so Republika Srpska and the Federation and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. As serious people, we will well consider what should be put on the agenda so that this people who have been tormented by work for eight years would not have put into a situation to think, unfortunately, how they had to think. That's why I think this parliament should be well kept on the agenda, which are the points on the agenda. You see those predecessors had before us made a small shift maybe the bigger ones couldn't make it. We are required to make a move whether we are big or small, and we will appreciate it from the position of the end of the mandate. Whether the degree of building confidence in BiH will last 20-30, 50-100 years will depend on this home. That's why I'm asking you, and this is my objection to the chairman and his deputy to stick to the agenda, and that's when people took good care not to go to the points around which we can lead the controversy. You see, talk about The Hague tribunal from the point of view of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be held by expert debates. It's not the one against whom the charge isn't proven. It's not good that there are secret lists, and that's true, it's not good, we have different views, and I ask you in the itresis of what I've been saying, and it's just a man that we end today's session with no conclusions in the interests of the citizens and the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we have the next session next week, as we agreed, and that we formulate the agenda points and that we go to the agenda points. There are a lot of things I could suggest as a conclusion where you might encounter the odyssey of one or another Federation club, but let's try to work out what we agree on that ensures the prosperity of these two entities first solves the being of time for a fight, I guess there's been a lot of fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u889	I think we can bring this to an end, and I've got as many registered debaters as I can and I'd like to bring this debate to an end. Of course, I am obliged to ask any question raised by each MP for discussion and to present, in particular in cases where one of the chairmans so requests, assuming that these are harmonised issues within the clubs, it is not some 42 major mistake, several proposals have been made, and it seems to me that all that at least most of the MPs have made including this last and several proposals that have been made within themselves, the proposals of some of the proposals put forward by a group of proposals that the Lagumdžija Council has made and later brought this to one conclusion, and several other MPs could have repeated this in about the following way to formulate, that we adopt some conclusion that the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry for one of the upcoming sessions as soon as possible to prepare the materials for the implementation of obligations to the international tribunal in The Hague. I think that this conclusion also contains an opportunity for all the conclusions to be put on the scale and adoption again, and to make an argument that the necessary materials are well prepared to be kept in mind when discussing the subject and thus to conclude this. Please, I'd like to put this proposal to a vote if you don't mind. The bottom line is I'm gonna do it again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u890	I went with a proposal that seemed logical. I ask you that what is not a part of the agenda is an observation both to you and to the vice-president, we cannot draw conclusions outside the agenda we will enter into something that will block the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that this assembly should give criticism to both you and Mr Banjac for what you are opening the agenda points, I have the impression that Mr Banjac, you see what it is, I am not afraid to open the debate on anything as a man and as an MP, but we must appreciate the contribution or that election base that has chosen us. Not that anyone's afraid to open a criminal debate or this or that, if it's necessary in the next session, then what we're going to do is we're going to agree on a procedure to chair the clubs or chair the team, so that's the point of the agenda to say. I'm asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure, so what do you think is today or here in principle I don't want to cause any new replicas. Let me also say that we analyze what is happening in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation or Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we witness and watch it every night. I understand that the wounds of my people are in the deepest pain, I am in that position, but whether that emotion or your emotion will contribute to making tomorrow the Bošnjak in the Federation take the golden spoons and eat, or the Srbin in Republika Srpska, and what a haste on topics where we obviously cannot agree, but let what is burning we solve, so it is not a pre-election campaign, there will be a time when an OSCE election will announce that we are telling each other and what a normal man of fashion would not answer. That's it. Please don't go with the conclusions, because you're going to cause other polemics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u891	Thank you. Please, you really need to bear in mind the elemental fact, I, as chairman, am not in a position to ban any MP from discussing any issue, especially when it is the UN tribunal's pthianium, and it is on the move. There's no way I'm discussing it and banning a debate about it, if that's what one of the MPs is looking for, and please, at least I hope we understand each other. The possible way out of the situation is therefore we have one proposal to conclude that this material is being prepared for one of the next sessions and 43 to discuss it. Mr Deretić proposes that the debate be concluded without conclusion, in translation it would mean that the College prepares, i.e. Mr Špirić proposes, that the College of one or more of the next sittings prepare that item by establishing the agenda that the point on the agenda is also the point on the agenda. It comes down to the same question is only, and if the College decides he will have to ask the Council of Ministers to prepare the matter, to prepare the necessary materials. So we have two suggestions, I think we can kind of formulate them. I will now try to make some synthesis to make it a proposal for the College to establish a point for one of the next sittings on the agenda - a debate on co-operation with the UN tribunal and to obtain the necessary materials from the competent ministry, or the Council of Ministers. Madam Members, there has been a compromise, obviously there have been some misunderstandings, in the end why we don't talk, we're here to talk. I propose to adopt a recommendation to the Expert College to consider putting this issue on the agenda in that order, to say - compromise, and what Mr Špirić has suggested, so let's sit down and see, that we are unenhancing something if it does not need to be sharpened. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u893	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules of Procedure, we are required to make a statement on the proposal of the MPs. Since there were a number of suggestions that obviously we do not have a coherent view regarding these concrete proposals. I think that we can only come out of this situation in that way to conclude that at this session we will not be able to declare ourselves on the proposals, then this conclusion goes to recommend to the College to consider putting that on the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u894	So, the previous vote, which, of course, means, would be to vote that we will not declare the proposal for a conclusion. Previously, it is clear that we are not going to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Not to plead on the proposal, but to conclude that the College is to prepare a agenda item on this matter, it implies that conclusions are to be left when that point is on the agenda. I will now - we have here a proposal to recommend to the College to prepare the agenda item and the necessary materials for the debate on "Co-operation with the International Tribunal". This debate has shown that there is a need. It's up to the College to assess when it's gonna be. We can't recommend that we consider it. I formulate a proposal for the following way: The Commission recommends to the College - therefore, the House of Representatives recommends that the College consider and prepare the agenda item on co-operation with the International 44 tribunal in The Hague and prepare the necessary materials and, if necessary, to co-operate with the Council of Ministers for Preparation of that point. Who's up for this proposal? 24 we have most of it for. We need to see about the entities. The Federation - who's in? 17 Republika Srpska - who is the conclusion for this proposal? 7 24 were for, 17 from the Federation, 7 from Republika Srpska. So, Mr. Čampara explains that this is the working conclusion of the House of Representatives and that most votes are needed. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, everything is adopted at the House of Representatives as prescribed. I'm asking you to be careful. 24 voted in favour, from Federation 17, from Republika Srpska 7. I repeat the vote. Who's in? From Republika Srpska's space? Three votes in. Therefore, the conclusion did not get the necessary majority from Republika Srpska's space. There's an agreement at the College coming up. Mr. Neimarlija answered.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u895	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the guest of honor, this debate, however, led us to the primary task of this House and, although the chairman announced that the next session could be held next week, I would still suggest, since Madrid is close to ordering this House of Ministers to come to us from Madrid with a list of priority laws and the dynamics of preparing their drafts, so that we have enough time to discuss their content. So at each session, we had a special point - parliamentary issues and current questions. I understood this in some way, when Mr. Banjac asked Mr. Neimarlija as a point: parliamentary issues or current questions. Since it was a Constitutional session, we didn't predict that part of the agenda. However, there is obviously no particular reason to eliminate this point if there is a need for MPs to do so. We held a debate on Mr Banjac's initiative, we reached a certain conclusion, I am obliged to put this suggestion, i.e. the motion of MPs, as well as everything else, to vote. The proposal therefore comes down to the following: - to task the Council of Ministers to come from Madrid with the list of necessary priority laws and the dynamics of the adoption of these laws in order to have time to discuss these laws. We have three registered debaters. 45
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u896	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs. I am Sejfudin Tokić, a representative of the Social Democrats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I would like to ask you to make a regular statement on the proposal. I made it quite clear that the motion to vote on the trust of the two of you. Because you're going to make such a story room out of this congregation, you're a master Genjac, you're a master at making a haystack out of every part of the agenda. You are retroactively introducing current questions, and this assembly came out at the beginning of the first session on the precisely defined agenda. And, remember, in that definition of the agenda, I've come four times into this building to precisely specify that who's going to be no mess and that everything will be okay. Then, Halid Genjac seven days after he passed, he now finds something, as this MP is called, liked, that might be the current question. You can't work like that, you can't build a state like that, you can't. This session is over. Oh, we can sit down right now and open up some running questions. On current issues, I would have said a lot of things, but before that, I would really ask you to and or interrupt this, because I insist that in order to propose in accordance with the agenda of the vote on trust for you, because you do not have the elemental instruments. Halida? Hej one from the top of the party or influence, the informal influence of the party reporting for the word, you stop being the chairman, you suddenly confuse everything, you are the first here, there is no Izetbegović, neither Haris nor this one who just spoke, you are the most important and all of us should be treated equally. You need to stop commenting on every discussion and run a session, chair, speaker, president of the Parliament, you don't look like such a man at all. Start looking alike, I beg you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u897	Thank you. There are two reasons why I haven't put this proposal to the vote yet, Mr. Tokić. One is that he wants me to bring it all to an end, how if we change immediately, who will lead to the end. And the other thing is, the suggestion seems rather unserious to me, so at least let's leave this joy to end. So these are the reasons, I think we should smile a little in the end. Now, of course the state is built by the slightest story, the state is building to solve issues whenever possible, here is my discussion and here is my place. You know, 31 votes said that I'm sitting here, and you're sitting here, and when you answer the word, you get up here, so is the vote, what can I do. So, you have to try to solve as many issues as possible, I'm taking the opportunity to solve as many questions as possible. You know. I look very much like the chairman, of course, and it's a matter of confidence. I am quite confident and therefore I am putting forward a proposal on that proposal by Mr Neimarlija I have reported two other debaters, Mr Tomić and Mr Dokić and Mrs Suada.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u898	Ladies and gentlemen, while respecting that it was a proposal and that the chairman put the motion under discussion, I suggest that we do not plead on the proposal of Mr Neimarlija, because I think it is against the integrity of this House. That the Parliament that needs to establish the Council of Ministers' Work Programme and it adopts which laws should be passed within what time limit should we declare ourselves that we are asking for it to be brought in from Madrid. We have to bring it here. We should declare that the new Council of Ministers is set up as soon as possible to offer us 46 of its work programme and to establish it and to go. And with respect to all the best intentions of Mr Neimarlija which I think are in this direction that as soon as possible we have these laws and the programme of work of the Council of Ministers, I still suggest that we do not plead.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u899	Thank you. Is it a replica? Mr. Dokić, I must cancel my superior's obedience as he says.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u900	Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow just a few sentences. But in the beginning, you will forgive me if I read you a verse from the poem “We will have a daughter from Bećković Bećković”. "We're going to have a daughter if it could have been without a daughter we wouldn't have had a daughter, it's meant to be, it's our legacy, it's what kept us, it's the least we can do, if we've had enough to stop here for free." I'd really like you all to read this poem not because of it so we can have a daughter, but because we don't want to have a daughter, even if they're free of all this stuff that we've had so far. What I was going to say seriously behind this pay phone, that's what my colleague Tomić said, so I'm going to put you out of your misery to look at me here in front of the pay phone, but I would suggest to this Parliament that it stands at the point that no law can be taken out of this house. And in that sense, I suggest that all those laws that are now in force temporarily return to the assembly procedure, because only then will it be the real laws of BiH. In this regard, let us also help the High Representative, Mr Vestendorp, to be what only the highest authority in interpreting the Dayton Peace Agreement has said recently, and not the highest legislator as it has been in the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u901	Thank you. Mrs. Suada.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u902	Dear Presidency, at the beginning of the session we have received information that the next session of this Parliament is being prepared next week at which we will discuss our preparations for the Madrid conference. We of the SDP have intended to suggest this in this session for the agenda and so we wondered if this was a sequel to the session or if it was new. Since we've accepted that it's new, there's going to be a new shadow that this is a sequel, and since we've accepted the chairman's information, we haven't raised that question. And I would like to ask if we can stay at the conclusion of this information when we have established the agenda, because we accepted it when we set the agenda for the next session. We think we should not give orders to the Council of Ministers or anyone else, but rather set up a platform for the Madrid conference, we can call it preparations for the Madrid 47 conference, and then we can define that document at the session and we can ask that it prepare us for that session of bases so that we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u903	Thank you. Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u904	I will talk about the laws and Mr. Tomić, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, is right when he says that we will be working on a myth here, we will do so, but I consider Mr. Neimarlija's proposals a serious and constructive proposal. Here's why. The fact is, we're just laying down drafts like the Council and proposals, and we're offering that to the Assembly. It is Parliament who will make the final decision. However, I can tell you that some of the laws required by this state have been in the draft since January, some since February, some since March 1997 and have never come to order. We lost a lot of time in the Council of Ministers discussing what laws the BiH state needs. I understand Mr Neimarlija's proposal as if we had agreed to do so in Madrid to confirm that we would be working on these and those laws and that we would offer them in a certain dynamics within two months to Parliament. Why is that necessary?
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u905	If you had an objection... from a place I respect, don't make the same mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u906	Right, he's right about the predicating.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u907	You'll take your word for it, sir... Thank you, and that's why I'll never tell you again.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u908	So to continue, I have submitted to almost all MPs a small one of the work report on my part of what I think we have done and what we should do in due time. I have asked all MPs, including the opposition and them in particular, and I have delivered you specifically to say something about it and to help us, in the Council of Ministers, to start working seriously, not to discuss which laws, but to discuss what laws they have in mind. To this day we have no answer from anyone, and that is why I consider Mr Neimarlija's proposal constructive, and I think that we should be able to go out with this Parliament with dynamics and say, we need 15 or 20 of these laws, within three months we submit a draft to you within two months or a month. The problem is that we cannot agree on the number of laws we need from political differences. Madrid can help us in this, so it was not a proposal that the Madrid dictated it to us, but to help us to come to some agreement that I consider this proposal to be good, and I, as an MP and as a committee president of the Council of Ministers, will act in that direction. 48 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u909	Thank you, this has been and some kind of we've had three four discussions of this proposal I think we have enough elements to make any statement about and against, and I will finally put the proposals to the vote. I don't think there's any more reports. Who's in favour of adopting a proposal from Parliamentarian Neimarlija? Mr Neimarlija has tabled a proposal to make a list of priority laws and dynamics of adoption in Madrid. Sorry, Zaltko, what's your suggestion? But there's a misunderstanding, and I understand that we've made some kind of synthesis of two proposals. I allow, therefore, the proposal to assign the Council of Ministers or the relevant Council of Ministers to prepare the necessary material for the agenda to be called a debate on co-operation with the international tribunal in The Hague for the next session or any of the following before the meeting. I'm putting too long to vote who's in favour of this proposal to raise his hand? The vote was 24, the conclusion is this, so we have to go by entities. Most of the votes come from the Federation's space who's in favour? Please from the RS space who's in? Three votes. Therefore, this proposal also requires compliance with the rules of procedure, it has the necessary majority, but does not have a primary majority of votes from Republika Srpska's entities. We're done. Now I think the conditions have been met to put Mr. Neimarlija's proposal, which I've re-formed, to the vote. Who's up for Mr. Neimarlija's suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u910	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am in favour of appreciating the dignity of this House of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a complex state composed of two equal entities and three equal peoples, the moment when all decisions on the fate of the people and entities come from outside will cease more stories to the voters that we are sovereign so I ask you to make a decision to lift the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if someone else is going to work for us, this is a surplus body, let us not take our responsibilities away from ourselves. First of all, I suggest that the working bodies of the Assembly be put in place to analyse what is needed to be brought, so why do we have the committees of the Assembly, the second thing is that we, in fact, are making obstructions not to define something, so here for the Hague tribunal are those who will not choose a man who is in the Hague, where the world has it. I'm asking you not to really decide not to take any of this high house's responsibilities, and here it is in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u911	I'm obliged to explain one more time. 49 There is a political dispute over priority laws, making lists before the most priority and most needed laws in Madrid, is not at all taking in charge, Madrid will not make laws and drafts, but a list of priority laws, therefore, it is not about the jurisdiction of this representative home, here is Mr. Tokić calling for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u912	I would only really ask that Parlmaent plead on the motion to recall the leadership of the Assembly, because beware you Halid have made a statement about this proposal as a ridiculous proposal, but I assure you that in that case this parliament would be less ridiculous, because what you are really doing is killing every intelligence of this Parliament, I am asking you to put it to the vote. You don't have to talk at all about your attitude toward any of the suggestions put forward, if you mean the chairman, and you obviously have those ambitions.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u913	Thank you. I just explained why I'm staying for a little while later, of course the proposal has to be put in place. We therefore, as far as Mr Neimarlija's proposal is concerned, we have both discussions and attitudes and representatives of clubs and there is enough evaluation that everyone can create their own court. I'm putting the proposal to a vote. Who's in favour of President Neimarlija's passing, please raise your hand? Fourteen of the 39 present, therefore the proposal did not receive the required majority. Let's move on, who's against it? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I thank you, we are now coming up with a proposal from Mr. Tokić, who suggested that a question of trust be raised by the leadership of the newly elected House of Representatives. Who's in favour of voting on the trust of the members of the college, on the right for the chairman and vice president, who's asking to raise his hand? Three votes for, who's abstention? Who's against this proposal? Thank you. That's why Mr. Tokić thinks the proposal is inconclusive, that's why there are three votes for it. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Suada.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u914	On the occasion of the agenda agenda that preceded this last vote, it was not the agenda point, but the issue raised. Since I've been saying it's not understood as a prelude, and now I'm making a suggestion. I also have the right to make a breakthrough, as a suggestion that for the next session to be held before the Madrid conference prepares the debate on preparations for the Madrid conference that we will discuss both the platform and these issues that are being launched here. 50 We would like to discuss preparations for the Madrid conference and to establish a platform for our delegation at that conference, and we can also discuss these issues that Mr Neimarlija has raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u915	As for preparations for the Madrid Conference of Ministers, the Council of Ministers has been working on this for a long time in accordance with its mandates the proposals have already been practically formulated, we had this on the agenda of the Council of Ministers on several occasions the proposals exist, we could not wait for this date and in accordance with our powers we have done so. As far as the Platform is concerned, if I understand the Council of Ministers' Platform, I repeat that we have made a brief report - the truth, on my part, it is something complemented by the Council of Ministers - so I say what we did and what we need to do. We're still waiting for reactions that aren't there. It's all divided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u916	Mr. Lozačnić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u917	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, I support this proposal and we have agreed in principle last session that before the Madrid Conference we will have Parliament - therefore, we will discuss the Platform, but I would further supplement here the requirement that those who create part of it be present, but what is being discussed - members of the Presidency and co-chair of the Council of Ministers, so that we could actually get to a platform.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u918	So, now we have, I'd say, one more question, in a set of these issues of MPs or current issues. Mrs. Suada's proposal, which was also supported by Mr. Lozančić, is to hold at the next session of the House of Representatives which they announced would take place in the middle of next week, to consider the Platform - so far preparations and the Platform for Performance in Madrid, that the Assembly should also contribute to Mr. Lozančić's presentation that members of the Council of Ministers attend this session of the House of Representatives. That's the whole proposal. A proposal like this that I've now elaborated on, and how it's brought out, I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? Six votes. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Six votes for, no one against, the others abstained. Mr. Lagumdžija reporting for word.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u919	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues, just so we don't leave this session so we don't know what it's all about. At the beginning of the work, we have found, opening this session, that in the next seven days we will have a session of Parliament, which we call on the Council of Ministers, 51 or the competent central institutions that are preparing for Madrid to come to the meeting of Parliament and that, according to the agenda point called the adoption of the Platform or preparation for the Madrid Conference, they come before this House and then this House, as someone said to the pain, the Madrid Conference and that our people who go there all represent this country, know what their domestic task is to this Parliament. That's what we agreed when we started the session. After the crowd came along, a colleague of Suada just came out here to remind you that we're perfecting that conclusion that we've already adopted. So, we've already adopted that, we've agreed there's going to be a session. Seven days before this last session, we also agreed on this at the College, where we were in the position of party representatives, we agreed to do this. A kolega Neimarlija comes out with a proposal that we respect, but we think it's too early now, since that session is also in seven days, where this matter will come into debate and we will plead. Now, please, let's get this straight. Is there a session in seven days or not? Will the Council of Ministers come before us or the Presidency or the Minister of Foreign Affairs to tell us what's going on there. If you answer me there's no session, I'm here looking for a conclusion, since that session is gone -- if it's not there, is there a session? He's got these sessions. Great, I'd ask, so we practically what we said didn't have it -- okay. I'm glad it's there, so we're back to the conclusion from the beginning of the session. I would only ask that it be concluded here that the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in preparation for the next 48 hours of all MPs - send the materials they received from OHAER as preparations for Madrid, what they prepared in the Bureau and the Council of Ministers or if they agreed, let them tell us this is harmonised, and this is unconformed, that we can prepare for the session in seven days. So, I'm only suggesting a working conclusion if you need it at all. You don't have to vote on that. I ask the chairperson that, in the function of the most normal preparation, in accordance with the Poslovnik of Procedure, we commit the competent institutions that suit us to provide the documents they consider relevant for our preparation for the Madrid session, so that they may discuss not impressive but very concretely. I, therefore, ask that this be accepted as a working conclusion, Mr. Chairman, so that we do not again make a farce and declare ourselves who is in favour of, who is against, that the competent institutions provide us with the materials that they had to deliver to us earlier. I'm saying this because it's in the means of information - we find out that the Presidency has the Platform and that it's agreed, we find out that the Council of Ministers is discussing it whether or not it is, which I don't know, because it depends on which press you're reading and what signal you're receiving or watching, so we'd like to get ready, so that this session won't be farsical, so it won't be unnecessary. If we can't all prepare ourselves properly, there's no need to hold her, because, as someone said more than once, this will turn into some unnecessary outwitting that leads to nothing, and besides, the elections aren't close, so there's no reason to have such unproductive sessions. I would ask the chairman to make this clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u920	Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u921	I am obliged as a member of the Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers to inform this Assembly that the work is made by the so-called The Madrid paper is almost finished, that we can work on this so far both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers in accordance with 52 of our responsibilities and that from now on, it can only affect so much that some things change less. To be honest and open here, since we're talking about this specifically, not outwitting, it's been done for a very long time on this one. I have specifically informed you of these messages, Mr Lagumđi, your foreigner and I sent you in the mail - so I sent a man to take this material into your hands. I don't have any reaction. The reactions are only here for this one stop. Why is Neimallia's proposal good? So we don't have to talk about the state at this table, and when it comes to working gentlemen, there's nobody around. The nights were left on Madrid paper and now that we're working for Madrid, the paper is finished, mostly, not waiting for this session, we have to do our job. So we can't wait, we can't treat this very important conference like this. Here, the Council of Ministers is an expression of who we are, some kind of political will, and in this direction we act. But last year it was the same. You know how many laws I filed in the draft, how many answers? You're talking about concrete -- this is concrete, how many answers did you give? How many other initiatives were there? I'm talking about the Law on War Crimes Procedure, very well, what else was there. I'm saying Neimallia's proposal is good, because since February 1997 some laws have been waiting. We're talking about concrete and outwitting. Let's not outsmart ourselves here, put the amendments to the plans we've already given, because people have worked on it, it's done. We work on it every day. The outwitting is to come here and say give us something concrete to do, and you don't even know what's done. Tell me, compared to what I submitted to you, what about it? Do you have any amendments to that? - Leave the outwitting. In particular, we have this. Here's the amendment to that. Is there any law that doesn't work or has any law that works? So we'll talk from now on - the amendment here, and don't give it specifically. Please be specific. This is how much you got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u922	Replica, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u923	This is said to be a replica of a false allegation, or quote that can cause possible misunderstanding. Mr Silajdžić, acting as co-chair of the Council of Ministers, stated here that he had been sent to us MPs and to me specifically prepared material for the Madrid Conference. Did I get that right? So, you see, Mr Silajdžić has indeed sent a report to party representatives as his opinion on what they have done and what they plan to do. Co-chair of the Council of Ministers, as a representative of the relevant political party which has here a respectable number of MPs and in any case, whose opinion is – to which it is very much held in the preparation of the Madrid Conference, not only on our part, but also by the international public. However, no report on what has been done so far since the Council of Ministers, I as an MP or as party president has been given. If anyone's got it, let them tell me. I'd like to see him. No report from the Presidency, from the Presidency as an organ, nor did we receive any paper that is the position of one authority on the Pripm Platform for the Madrid Conference. I insist on doing it. And when that is on the agenda, my colleague Silajdžić, you will have the opportunity to hear the views in this House – the MPs and my personal and political options, which I also represent. 53 I do this little show of yours, although you said you were speaking to the chairman – the co-chair, who, by the way, you yourself claim to be an unconstitutional category, I am, for a moment I will accept that you have spoken as an MP, because that you spoke as a basket chair, what you have been doing now is destroying Parliament. You, as co-chair, neither you nor anyone we choose, have the right to rose us. That's to be clear, so as an MP, you have the right to mock us here. I have you as my fellow MPs, but he yelled at you in court, and you have no right to scold Parliament or any of the MPs. It's a fact and these are the rules on which every session seems to be something new scientific. Here, I've learned something now. I would ask you, and therefore, since I treat you like a fellow MP, I am not asking for that statement about your shift, because if you were making me look like a basket sitting here, I would ask you to bear with you the proper consequences of asking this Parliament. There's no right for anyone to exercise power to mock us here, what's the matter with you. Preiti, you say you will have a chance to plead – we are not, and we are, whether we are or not. It's up to us to determine whether or not we're going to be ambassadors. And you, as co-chairman, have here for the second time to come along with Bor, because Tomić I see sitting upstairs an MP wisely as an MP, otherwise to take the benches and see you here finely, Mr. Chairman, where we sit the Council of Ministers, to sit here finely, to watch us, to take paper and pencil, to have professional services and to see what this Parliament thinks of them, about their work, about their plans. This is where it all got mixed up. The only thing here is that you don't know what's on the daily ed, but you don't know who's roses anymore, or who's entitled to roses. You have no right to mock us as an MP. As an MP, you can tell me whatever you want, and now it's up to my jurisdiction what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna do it. So, I'm glad to make sure that the materials exist and please, Mr. Genjac, as a working conclusion, provide us with all relevant papers, including the papers that you have, if you don't have, I'll deliver them to you. You want me to deliver those papers to you. I don't understand. You have as President of Parliament, on which I congratulate you for the second time, twice chosen in one session, I really ask you to deliver all the papers you have. Thank you. Nice.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u924	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija, especially on these cards. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u925	I'm not going to suggest what I'm going to ask for to be voted on, every MP has the right to suggest that I think we've gone the wrong way to make a statement and vote. I'd just like to remind you of what my colleague Lagumdžija just said earlier that we agreed in the last session that the first working session of the Assembly would be before 15. And we'll have a report on the material for Madrid. Regardless of whether we can influence him or not, we want to hear him, and we want you gentlemen from the Council of Ministers to hear what we think about him, even if it's here and sometimes formal democracy means something, especially that we haven't had in the past. I once again draw attention to all those who are unable to agree or in the absence of the will to agree here, and so it seems that by entities you are calling on a higher force “in the image of the High Representative”. Make sure it breaks all over our heads. It's better that we've been here for days 54 to last the unions, than on behalf of us something that we want pushed by someone else. Make sure that someone else gets through and what we don't want. And so, my suggestion session, and this is what I wanted to ask the question. At the next session, both in the Rules of Procedure and in what follows, we need here in this House to elect a new Council of Ministers. No one's talking about it. Therefore, at the next session, at least proposals for the co-chair so that they could "democraticly draw up this Council". So that's the topic we need to discuss next time. And another suggestion, I don't think it's a problem for us to be in an O.R. where we have supply sessions and benches so MPs don't read the material from their knees and don't write on their knees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u926	Thank you. I haven't seen anyone reported for discussion. Mr. Divković. I'd like to ask you to bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u927	I'll do it very briefly, because the predecessor said a good part of what I basically meant to say. I absolutely respect the fact that the Council of Ministers, given the hands, prepared a proposal for Madrid that the Presidency was working on, that they agreed or did not agree to the views. But now we're talking about this, right now we're talking about preparing for the next session that we agreed in principle to be dedicated to, I'd say, so thematically dedicated to Madrid. It is quite logical that, regardless of those views, MPs and the public through this House are familiar with the content of these views towards Madrid. And given that the Council of Ministers is somehow responsible for this home and that this home would not really become excess, I think it is absolutely necessary to go out with that platform at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-11-26-0.u928	Thank you. When we really explained at the beginning of this sequel, we announced that during the next week the session was to be held, I was still speaking as chairman in the previous meeting, and then I explained it and it would be necessary to provide a suggestion to the newly elected College previously agreed at the meeting of the party representatives that the next session, which should be in the middle of next week next to the election of the working bodies and, in addition to the completion of this constitution of the Assembly, should be discussed both by the Madrid Conference and prepared for the Madrid Conference, and I understand that. And that is why I can see no reason to specifically conclude, the proposal for a conclusion that something is being announced in the announcement is being prepared, and I understand that, in the capacity of the chairmanship of the Kolegija and the other vice-presidents, I will do everything to ensure that at next week's session, a special item of the agenda is that what is, which is prepared to be delivered to the MPs, what is finished to consider at the session and the invisible problems. So, as we have already completed the discussion, the proposal has come to the conclusion that something that we have already announced in the introduction will be put on the agenda. 55 So I, as chairman of what I have announced, will do so. Please, with this explanation, declare the second part of the Constitutional session finalized. The session was completed at 15.50 hours. Over!
