ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all present, allow me, as the last chairman of the last call, to open a constitutional session of the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, I would like to welcome and congratulate the new representatives who will verify the mandate and who will continue to work at the House of Peoples. Also, I welcome the representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community and our permanent escorts to the media gentlemen. For today's session, I propose the following DN E V N I R E D: 1. Selection of the Verification Commission, 2. Verification of the delegation's mandate, 3. Pledge, 4. The election of presidents and vice-presidents of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Are there any additions to the agenda? Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u2	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all, colleagues who will be in this esteemed home, along with me, I want this responsible job done successfully, in quality and, of course, effectively. As far as I know, the agenda is in line. I have no intention of proposing interventions in the agenda, but I want to make one suggestion and I hope it will be respected. Namely, this is the first, constitutional session of the House of Peoples. These days there are a lot of current issues that should be found in this home, i.e., at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, significant issues concerning BiH, from not revising today's activity plan, I expect that this will be, in fact, the newly elected leadership of this home, but as much as in the coming week, to schedule the first working session on which we would consider the platform, i.e., we have information 2 on preparations for the upcoming Madrid conference, of course, we expect information from the BiH Presidency, i.e. other relevant institutions of this country. So, to recap, I'm not looking for an intervention on the agenda, but I would suggest that it be a suggestion and that the newly elected leadership appreciates it and that it be their first task, i.e. to ensure that we consider one of these issues in the next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u3	Okay, Mr. Ćeman's suggestion is addressed to the new presidency, they'll decide when to call a session and what to put on the agenda, I just, for the sake of information, I'll say that we called today's session and all three members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, and all members of the Council of Ministers, as usual in the past term, they haven't responded, so from the agenda they welcome speeches, which are common at the constitutive sessions, they probably won't be. So, I propose a four-point agenda, I put it to the vote. Who's in? The abstentions? Against? There's no one here. I find that the agenda has been unanimously adopted. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. The selection of the Verification Commission please the presidents of the clubs of all three constituent nations to give members to the Verification Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u4	I suggest Mr. Mirsad Ćeman in front of the Bosniak club.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u5	I suggest Mr. Momir Malić in front of the Serbian club.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u6	In front of the Croatian club Mr. Pero Madžar. So, I repeat, for the Verification Commission, Mr Mirsad Ćeman was proposed in front of the Bosniak club, Momir Malić in front of the Serbian club and Pero Madžar in front of the Croatian club. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Are there any abstentions? 3 Do you mind? There's no one here. I'm giving the Commission five to ten minutes' break to make an inspection of the verification. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u7	The Commission proposes to this House of People, which shows that according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, as an authorised body, has selected five delegates, MPs from the Serb people's House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then, in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bosniak Club in the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held the election of five delegates from the Bosniak People's House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that the Croatians Club in the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina has made the selection of five Hrvat from the Croatian people in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Commission found nothing controversial in the election and delegation of five delegates from the Serb people, five delegates from the Bosniak people's order, but, although not unanimously, it found the following: We could not agree on about five seats in the Croatian People's House, one term of office is disputed, as is known, four delegates are not controversial, but the fifth delegate is controversial and, in accordance with the letter of the Office of the High Representative, we believe that all four mandates must be verified from the Croatian people. So, I will suggest the following: This is to verify the mandate of the people to the following delegates: - from the order of the Serb people: Ljubičić Drago, Malić Momir, Pajić Đoko, Tošić Momir, Ristić Ristan, - from the order of the Bosniak people: Čampara Avdo, Ćeman Mirsad, Herceg Mugdin, Šarčević Ismet and Žigić Izet, - from the Croatian peoples Madžar Pero, Marković Pero, Šoljić Vladimir and Zorić Vinko. The fifth term, the proposal, but not unanimous within the Commission, is to be verified when the election of the fifth delegate from the Croatian people is carried out in accordance with the binding instructions and decisions of the Office of the High Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u8	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Zorić, president of the Croatian Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all on your own behalf and on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club in the House of Peoples of the PS Bosnia and Herzegovina and I request a 10 minute break from the chairman. 4
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u10	At the request of the president of the Croatian Representatives' Club, Mr Zorić, I am giving a 10 minute break. [[Pause]] ... Constituting sessions, please the president of the Croatian Representatives' Club, who asked for a break, to go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club in this House, although whose mandate has not yet been verified, to meet all those present at the session on 1 December, at the 2nd session of the House of People of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we held the selection of five representatives in accordance with the Constitution of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Club and the Interim Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of People of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have this decision with me, which was signed by the chairman of the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Zovko, in which he writes nicely that in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the basis of Article 4.1a) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a decision was taken in the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the choice of Čampar Avdo, Ćeman Mirsad, Herceg Mugdin, Sarčević Ismet, Žigić Izet, Madžar Pere, Marković Pere, Šoljić Vladimir, Vrdoljak Dragan and Zorić Vink. Afterwards, we have now seen a letter from the High Representative, Mr Westendorp, and Norberg Klinger, where they are concerned that the election of delegates from the Croatian Party has once again failed to provide a prerequisite, namely that the Croatian representative body in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina must fully reflect the political spectrum of Croatian voters' will, expressed in the elections of 13 and 14 September 1998. I'll stop here and comment briefly. Croatian voters elected their deputies in the county parliaments, and the county parliaments delegated their envoys. In the County of West Herzegovina, a representative was elected to the county assembly, Mr Dragan Vrdoljak, and not only him, but one of the three MPs in the county assembly. As such, he was delegated to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Peoples and no one had any objection to the MP. The Croatian people's will in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of the Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represents 30 legally elected deputies. The 30 MPs were elected twice by five MPs and were never approved by the High Representative. We have also accepted this, but I will read further - therefore, we accept the selection of four newly elected HDZ delegates. No one has elected HDZ delegates or any other party, we have elected five representatives from the House of the Federation 5 of BiH for the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, Croatian representatives should not be divided into party membership, because neither is that home of parties, nor is this home of parties here. There is the House of Peoples, here is the House of Peoples and everyone, largely the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People in the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has given confidence and proposed to choose exactly five, just recently read and in the Decision signed by the chairman, representatives of which Dragan Vrdoljak. The election of HSP delegates, again we do not know what an HSP delegate is, it is a delegation of the Croatian people. Mr Dragan Vrdoljak opposes Article 15(35) Rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission. If otherwise, then the Interim Election Commission should not have verified Mr Dragan Vrdoljak's mandate anywhere. He is already a representative in two congregations: in the Assembly of the West Herzegovina County and in the Assembly, that is, the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with the powers of the High Representative in Section XI of the Bosnian Declaration of the Peace Implementation Council, this selection shall be made. Please, I will very soon finish, to have a representative of the High Representative explain this to me, that according to the powers of the House of the Peoples of the Federation of BiH Post office. The remaining place in the Croatian representative body remains vacant until further notice. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club, I suggest the following: - that we be contacted here by the Office of the High Representative, and me and other Croatian MPs will do everything on their part to make this home a place today, but in accordance with, again, with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which precisely says that the House of Peoples of the PS Bosnia and Herzegovina has 15 representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u13	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. I would like to invite a representative of the Office of the High Representative - representative of the international community to comment and to give an explanation of this. I'm taking a break from 15 minutes. We continue with the session. It was a flat. At the question of the President of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People, Mr. Vizing, the representative of Mr. Westendorp, to explain, let's say, one sentence from Mr. Westendorp's letter, i.e. that the election of delegates by Mr Dragan Vrdoljak is contrary to Article 15, 35, d) of the rules of the Interim Election Commission. I'm calling on Mr. Vizing to make it clear if he wants to explain it. Thank you, Mr. Vizing. Mr. Zorić, president of the Croatian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u15	Six ladies and gentlemen, I apologize if I or the Croatian Representatives' Club have estranged this session. I also thank the Office of the High Representative for refusing to explain to me the vague allegations in the letter of the High Representative and asking for a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u16	Okay. I'm taking a two-minute break. I don't think the other MPs should go out. After the break, Mr Zorić respected the time, minutes and 48 seconds. I'm asking him out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u17	The Croatian MPs' club, delegated from the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH to this House, is not satisfied with the conversation with Mr. Vizing, the High Representative, but this club, supporting the Croatian people's will in Bosnia and Herzegovina and until now signed contracts and agreements, fully respects High Representative Karlos Vestendorp, and I propose that this House verify 14 mandates in this House of the PS Bosnia and Herzegovina. We hope that at the next session, we will verify the mandate of the Croatian People's Representative appointed by the Croatian Representatives' Club in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u18	I thank Mr. Zorić. I think the reasons why we were interrupting the session were removed here, we were giving breaks, I don't think the verification board has any need to meet again. I am making a proposal to the Verification Commission for the sake of the public, I will have to read, to verify the mandates of the next representatives, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the order of the Bosniak people: Mr Avdo Čampara, Mirsad Ćeman, Mugdin Herceg, Ismet Šarčević and Izet Žigić. From the order of the Croatian people: Mr Peri Madžar, Peri Marković, Vladimir Šoljić, Vinko Zorić, and Republika Srpska, from the order of the Serbian people: Mr drag Ljubičić, Momir Malić, Đoka Pajić, Momir Tošić and Ristan Ristić. That's a suggestion. I think we've exhausted all the discussion on this matter. I am voting on the proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Abstained? One. Against? There's no one here. I find that out of the 14 MPs present, 13 MPs have been in favour of verifying the mandate of the proposed deputies. I hereby conclude that the verification of the mandate of the read representatives has been carried out. 7 We move to the 3rd point of the agenda. Giving a solemn oath before giving a solemn oath, Mr. Tošić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u19	Dear fellow Members, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen representatives of the High Representative. I want to welcome you all to this point just to meet you at the House of Representatives, at the last session, representatives from Republika Srpska gave an initiative to change the oath and I would just like to meet you, they have already signed the existing one. We will do it today, but this initiative they supported will certainly be supported by the Club of Serbian MPs in the Council of Peoples, so that we inform you only about it. So today we'll accept, and then we'll probably include in the next sessions an amendment to that oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u20	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. Everyone in their own language should read. (Secrets swearing) I ask all MPs to sign the oath under their own lines. I'm closing the third item of the agenda, it's making an oath. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. The election of the presidents and vice-presidents of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Rules of Procedure is compatible with the post of chairman in the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the House of Representatives of the PS of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know that Mr Radišić was elected BiH Presidency Chairman from the Serb people, Mr Genjac of the Bosniak Peoples was elected in the House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the College agreed that the rotation of the Bosnian People's House of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be the first term of office of eight months, the second term of office of eight months is held by a representative of the Bosniak people and the third term of office by a representative of the Serb people. 8 I ask the President of the Croatian Representatives' Club to present a proposal for the co-chair, i.e. the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u22	Thanks, we're four, so everyone's gonna be something. For the chairman of the House of the People of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to propose Mr Vladimir Šoljić.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u23	I call on the president of the Bosniak People's Club to propose his candidate.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u24	On behalf of the Bosniak Club for the chairman, or vice-president, since this is a rotating place, we propose a doctor. Dr. Izet Žigić, I suppose, also known to this gathering and the general public, currently chairman of the Tuzlan-Poninj Canton Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u25	I call on the president of the Serbian People's Club to propose his candidate.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u26	On behalf of the Serbian club, we propose to Mr Drago Ljubičić for the president of the Council of Nations, i.e. now vice president, because this is a rotating role. So Drago Ljubičić is in front of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. Is there any discussion on the proposals? There's no one here. I will, as proposed, put the proposed candidates to the vote. So, for the chairman of the PSBiH House in the first term, Mr Vladimir Šoljić was proposed. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Restraint? Does anyone mind? There's no one here. I find that Mr. Vladimir Šoljić was chosen by the majority as the chairman of the PS Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency in the first term. 9 Mr. Izet Žigić was proposed to the First Vice-President. I'm putting this motion to a vote? Who's in? Thank you. Restraint? Two. Against? There's no one here. I find it necessary for the majority of Mr Izet Žigić to be the first deputy chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina House of Peoples. For another deputy... For the second deputy, i.e. the chairman in the third term, Mr Drago Ljubičić was proposed. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Restraint? Two. Against? There's no one here. I find that Mr Drago Ljubičić is the necessary majority elected second deputy chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Congratulations to the elected representatives. Before the newly elected chairman takes his place, allow me, as the last chairman of the previous meeting, to direct a few words to our successors in the House of Nations presidency, or to the next MPs. The home of Bosnia and Herzegovina was established in 3.1.1997. We initially had a lot of problems in our work, from the point of maintenance to technical conditions, and everything else. I informed the Office of the High Representative on several occasions about the problems in the work of the People's House, and once in writing. I would like to thank the MPs who were in the last term for the correct performance of their duties. I would like representatives who will be successful in the next term, to properly represent the interests of their people. This is the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of Constitutional Peoples. I personally know that the only leverage, the only chance and opportunity where there is no revote, decisions must be made in harmony. In the last term, we had a series of situations where Mr. Vestendorp had to intervene with temporary decisions. I hope that such decisions will be made as little as possible. Here, I end up, in short, congratulating the newly elected co-chairs and inviting them to take their seats. I forgot to say there'll be a cocktail after this, and I thank my associates here for their correct cooperation and shop. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u29	10 Ladies and gentlemen, I must conclude, with a certain amount of dissatisfaction, and to say, the discomfort that our club is not complete, but, as they say, what it is, I thank you for your confidence. I think this home will do what it is asked of it, which means protecting the interests of the constituent peoples and other citizens and, of course, achieving interests and coordinating each other. I thank our predecessors who founded this business. They were the first. I hope that it will always go for the better, that this composition of ours will work better and that the one who comes behind us will, I say, lead to a normal situation and in this space in Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'll schedule our first working session as soon as there are conditions and reasons, I don't think it'll take long. I thank everyone and the media especially who will follow, who have followed this session and those who will follow, I hope, and future our work. I would like our work to be as public as possible, so that those who should participate with us together, that is our base, can contribute to general progress. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to thank all of you who have given us the confidence to sit here for the next two years together to do the work that is set before us, that is, in any case, to be in that element in which we have given this solemn statement, which is to implement the peace agreement, and by doing a faster pace than the previous assembly, because some other assumptions have been made than in the previous assembly of this home, and they are better guesses and better quality, and all with the goal of making what we promised, when we gave mandate to citizens, voters, to the peoples, finally, to fulfill that promise. I also wish that the Office of the High Representative has as little work as possible in the coming period as possible, because of our agreement, easier alignment and quality solutions, because I believe that we can and are able to deal with problems within Bosnia and Herzegovina on our own in the coming period. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you on behalf of the MPs' club in front of Republika Srpska and in my personal name. I thank you for your choice and for your trust. For me, this is an honor, certainly, to be in this home, and at the same time a great commitment and great responsibility. I expect from my fellow Members of the House one co-operation, correct conduct and attitude towards all issues and obligations, especially issues that come in the process of this high house, that we will have a lot of understanding, a lot of responsibility in making decisions, precisely for the reasons and respect of this home. Thanks again. 11
ParlaMint-BA_1998-12-04-0.u32	Thank you. The seat is over. The seat is closed at 3:35. End
