ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Catalonia Cybersecurity Agency's creation law project (totality debate)]] [[200-00010/11]] Very good morning to everyone. The fifteenth point of the order of the day is the totality debate of the Catalan Cybersecurity Agency's Creation Bill. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, is presented by Ms. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency. Then there's the word "adviser."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.2.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is a pleasure to present today at this plenary session the draft law establishing the Cybersecurity Agency, which was approved by the Executive Board on 26 July and which today we do not begin the parliamentary debate. As I will now expose them, we understand from the Government that it is an absolutely necessary law in a world every time more connected and digital, and it is this digital society that is configuring more than ever as a global platform on citizenship, public and private bodies, public administrations, is totally immersed in developing a very high proportion of its activity and daily life. It is so that trust and security are key factors that must be met in order to satisfy the transformation of our society with full guarantees. To put just a few examples, every sixty_second, the time I have the use of the word, more than 20_millions of whatsapps, more than 150_millions of emails, and more than 200,000_euro items are coming to Amazon all over the world. The public authorities, and in this sense the Generality is no exception, clearly bet on the full implementation of the digital society by taking the tools that both the administrations and the service providers have at their disposal, and in the case of the Generality at present a high volume of public services that are already available to the network and are accessible to the citizen, consistent with the Government's will to have a digital administration that is effective but above all is at the forefront of everyone. The daily use of information and communication technologies and the treatment of businesses, entities, citizens, become essential elements for today's economic development and social coexistence. Depending on these technologies, systems and information, there is a basic need to ensure the continuity of activities, to provide legal certainty in the actions of the city and in the commercial traffic, and also to guarantee the progress and social development of the citizens. We need to be aware that all the great benefits that this digital transformation brings to our society, that there are, also predict us reptes, and cybersecurity is not one, and principal. The digital society is affected by various threats that endanger the security of information systems and their data, and that cause its protection against these cyber threats to become a basic pillar for developing the digital society and its trust in citizens. In this context, we have a plan, a proposal that responds to this situation. And in Catalonia, in the past few years, there have been numerous publicity and awareness actions of the use of the Internet, mobile phones, ultimately technology, with a positive impact. But the technological evolution that we have been talking about calls for more forceful actions than going there, with more impact and greater incidence. We are called upon to unify the efforts of the actions that we have made so far from the government, also from civil society, to achieve a multiplier effect in favour of a society that is still more aware and prepared before the risks of the digital society. Classroom training, for example, is something very important that needs to be complemented with specific actions directed at children and young people in our country, and also to citizens in general. To speak of cybersecurity is to speak, for example, of tools that make it possible to hear the youngest that are the digital patch, the privacy, the rights and rights to the network or the cyberassembly. Both at the national and international levels it is possible to detect at a later stage that the organized activity in the network that is aimed at harming the actions and public services of governments and enterprises has increased exponentially. In recent times, Catalonia has also been affected by these cyberattacks, both in the private and public spheres. Just to give them some data, the year 2015 the Generalitat has received about 216_million cyber attacks, a number of threats that have increased until fifteen times since the year 2013, and there have been more than 11,700 cybersecurity incidents, which have affected jobs and information systems, if not affected in normal functioning nor harm their data. Since the Government of Catalonia, we have been sensitive to this reality, and have gone through various actions to equip us with instruments and mechanisms that can respond to this challenge. The Information Security Centre of Catalonia, the Cesicat, a public sector foundation created in the year 2010 from the approval of a year before the National Platform for Security Pulse in Catalonia, has precisely the objective of strategically addressing the challenge of the secure digital society in Catalonia. The Cesicat has carried out important tasks in these years, and in particular 2012 has centralized the cybersecurity function in Catalonia, assuming the task of guaranteeing it, managing important cyber incidents, such as the one we suffered on November 9, 2014. But, despite all this, this foundation, because of its legal form, cannot exercise its functions or provide the public cybersecurity service that is now necessary, essential, in order to deal with present and future challenges. And this is the main motivation of the government to push this legislative measure. But this vision that I'm offering is not just, it's not exclusive, from the Government of the Generality. These are shared approaches in the European field, where a directive has recently been adopted with the aim of harmonising and ensuring the appropriate level of cybersecurity for networks and information across the European Union. This initiative, therefore, aligns itself with the principles and measures taken in accordance with the legislation that we plan to deal with..., and does not incorporate many of the main elements, principles and protection objects. The current state of the digital society in Catalonia, as well as the challenges that I have done before, demand decisive action to protect information infrastructures and the interests of the Government of Catalonia, and also to protect the same city, businesses and public and private institutions. It is intended to establish a public cybersecurity service that ensures this protection to the citizen and develops functions such as planning, management, coordination and supervision of cybersecurity, establishes the preventive and reactive capacity necessary to address the effects of possible incidents, exercises all functions of emergency response teams, acts as support to any authority competent for the exercise of its public functions, investigates and analyzes cyber incidents and cyberactivities in whom it intervenes through its competence, co-operates with public and private entities to promote and enhance cybersecurity levels to infrastructure and application, and to enhance the cybersecurity level of the cybersecurity system. In order to respond to all these needs and to provide the public service to have an organization that in the field of the competencies of the Government of Catalonia ages to last them to term and allows to guarantee and increase the level of security to the networks and information systems. The present law, therefore, aims to create a public right entity with legal personality that is appropriate to the proper functions. In this way we can ensure that the Government has the necessary tools to address the risks and threats posed by the full integration of digital society in Catalonia today, in response to the current situation. We're not just talking about having the best tools to protect ourselves, but with this action the government can and must also contribute to generating a strong and internationally relevant sector of catal cybersecurity. Smart digital technologies will be the basis of the 21st century economies, both to empower them and to destabilise them. And in this new Catalonia paradigm you have the actions and the ability to grasp the maximum benefits of this revolution and we want to take the best action to avoid the worst consequences. At the level of ICT Catalonia already counts with a powerful and highly projected sector. We have more than 12,800 companies dedicated to ICT, with more than 14,000_million euros of annual billing and more than 200_millions destined annually for investment in research and development; a sector occupying 84,600 workers in Catalonia, which accounts for about 2,7_percent of the employed Catalan population, according to data from 2015. After years of action, gambling and monitoring of the ICT sector, we have managed to build up itself as an employment generator over the past few years, making it one of the areas of activity with the best economic and social prospects. The tourist tax has decreased by 0.8_per_cent in 2015 and is currently at 5.2, before the 17.7 of midjana, as you know, of the tourist tax in Catalonia. Now close to doing this same, this follow-up, this bet, in the cybersecurity sector and take an active role in improving our position and leadership, with advocacy and induction for the generation of this powerful and dynamic sector. Finally, and not least important, I would like to remind you that this legislative initiative will make it possible to compliment the various mandates of the Parliament of Catalonia in order to adjust the legal form of the body responsible for cybersecurity in Catalonia to the functions it has to develop, so that precisely some political forces that today are putting forward papers to the totality, and there are in their perfect right, gave at that time support. In conclusion, Madam President, the strategic objective of cybersecurity is a country objective, a national objective. Vetting for cybersecurity in Catalonia is one of the biggest challenges we have, and the government is fully committed to it, and it is also an absolutely shared responsibility, as the European Commission specifically reminds us, which implements the month of cybersecurity in Europe every October. I invite you to be able to participate in the debate on parliamentary processing of a bill that will allow us, I am very and very convinced, to be able to address a global challenge, that of cybersecurity, according to the specific circumstances of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.3.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, for the defense of the totality presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.4.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen Members, counsel, counsel, secretaries, director, well, the presentation made to us by the adviser of the Presidency in relation to the creation of this agency is, I would say, quite impeccable from the narrow point of view of the motion of the bill, which is that of the creation of an organization that must be sought to give security to the use of networks. We have been in a technological revolution for many years now, and the definitive implementation of these technologies, which are not new, which are technologies that we already have in the abst, that are used, that are used for many areas of people's daily lives, must allow us to offer security in all areas, both in the areas of citizen relations with administrations as in the areas of relations between the same citizens, as in the areas of commercial relations through the network, surely one of the most delicate parts. But it's not neutral, this bill – it's not neutral, this bill. And this, first, foundation, now is intended to go to the agency, has a history, has facts, that are relevant, that have been object of debate in Parliament. And so, I think we can't just ignore them. Certainly, 2009 is being developed this Platform for the security of information and communication technologies by the former tripartite government, or in whole, according to who it wants to say, and, indeed, 2010 is creating the foundation Cesicat as the main body that has precisely to age for security in the network in Catalonia. At that time it is finance, this foundation, mainly through the contributions of the Centre for Telecommunications and Information Technologies of the same Generality. When the first Government of Convergence and Union, from the Presidency of the Government, and concretely from the Secretary of the Government, is giving instructions to all departments that make an effort to contract services to the Telecommunications and Information Technologies Centre, which also allows to improve the economic endowment of the Cesicat Foundation. And up there a moment when surprising, more or less surprising information begins to appear. I remember in this very case I had to teach a graphic document, which we would now tell infographics, eh? , an infographic, in which the relationship that exists between the numerous new service contractors on behalf of the Centre for Telecommunications and Information Technologies with the Convergence ICT Sectoral, for example, Convergence ICT Sectoral, which precisely presides over the same Director General of Telecommunications at that time. And they start to appear documents, with the least for some, surprising ones, don't they? – with the least for some, surprises. For example, a strategic plan to create a national security board. First he denied his existence; then, already in his parliamentary office, he had to be recognized. First he denied it and all the same president of the Generality. And he's denied it in this same hemicle. The beginning of the denial in this same chamber was recognized in a parliamentary commission on the part of the councillor that, indeed, that document existed and that document had been commissioned by the Cesicat foundation, and had also been manipulated from the same foundation. Manipulated... worked, huh? , if you fly. And it was about creating an image body of the Spanish CNI, or the NCA of the United States. Finally, it was like the Russian FAPSI. Go on, that's what they beat like the Catalan CNI. More information appears... man, compromises, right? For example, the filtering of more than three_ thousand corporate email credentials of the Government of Catalonia. There are reports also in charge of the Césicate – and this is back to date recently, not in relation to the Césicate – on the creation of the Catalan DNI from the use of certain databases. People's activity monitoring documents appear in social media. In some cases under the charge of the Mossos d'Esquadra, in other cases on own initiative. Or the charge of spy applications for mobile phones, which is also denied in your parliamentary office, but then it turns out that, for example, at the Squadron Mosses, certain agents, in certain operations, are distributed and distributed. And all this is denied. Home! , there are other tasks, anecdotes if they want to, but that... update the Councillor's Viquipedia corresponding to his time. It was one of the first tasks that Councilman Puig commissioned to the Cesicat. Well, that body that was supposed to warp for the security of the network at the time, and I'm talking about two years ago, from the beginning of 2014, was an authentic collaborator. That's to say, if there was any place I could get information, it was from that place that was supposed to be more hermetic about the information I was trying to protect. And, indeed, these undefeated political objectives are highlighted, and they are due to long-term activities that, from our point of view, are closer to security than, at that time, to a foundation. If I may, even more recently, one thing has been known that is certain: the filtering of personal data from squadron movements, squadron moss agents, which presumably also have – I say – presumably because I do not know if it is still under investigation or not – its origin at the Cesicat foundation. We share the objectives, and 2014, at the beginning of 2014, in an inquiry to the councilman we said. And, precisely, the reason for that question is that it is now as the argument for the elaboration of this bill, for the creation of this security agency. And there we do not want to create an agency. Here we would like to assess the most appropriate legal form, since the foundation, we understand, was not the most appropriate legal form. And today we understand that the agency they claim is not the most appropriate legal form either. But you see here that at the end of the 14th year, among these many unselfish reports of the Council Counsellor of the Sedition..., well, of the National Transition, which you say, of the sedition, which is its purpose..., is justified the need to protect itself against Spanish hackers. And then here it is when you see the strict need to give it to an agency of these characteristics. And the perilous legislature begins. That's not what they're talking about in the motion, it seems to me that I'm not, but it makes me feel that you're right to be this bill of law, and this report, that we don't have the motions that we can approve in the same Parliament. This is where the periple begins. First they prepare a law decree; then, under the circumstances, that law decree ends up becoming a draft law; then that draft law ends up becoming an article of the Law of measures that was debated before the summer here in Parliament; as the Law of measures was withdrawn for the government because the members of the government did not approve the assumptions, we move to the fourth stage, which is to recover the form of the draft law, and today we are precisely in the debate on the draft law. But we are in a situation where judicial statements have also recently been made by the director in the sense that it is recognized that they can intercept emails from any worker, corporate mails of the Generalitat, from any worker of the Generalitat of Catalonia, without any supervision, judicial or police. Therefore, any worker with corporate mail may have intervened. Well, to us, frankly, all these news, all these circumstances, they don't give us much confidence in the body. Then why did you return to the government? I'll quote you three arguments. I am convinced that in the turn of defense of the emena to the totality... the Councillor of the Interior will put more arguments on the table, but I will defend three. Look, a first is that we don't think it's necessary to create a new body, at least with this format. And, in this sense, the same Directorate General of Public Service recommends that you do not follow this format, but that you are an autonomous administrative entity, and this is a document of the same Generality..., when you ask the different bodies for their position with regard to this proposal. Secondly, an important part of the tasks to be carried out by this agency, which we believe should not already be an agency, must be, without doubt, under the direct control of the safety nets. The Mosses have a cybercrime unit. And, therefore, we understand that among the functions that are intended to give to this agency, and the report of the Director General of the Police..., is to fight against illicit conducts, to include direct intervention and obtaining electronic evidence, to investigate and analyse cyber incidents and cyberattacks. This has to be done from the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And the third argument. Yesterday President Puigdemont asked a question, I don't know whether rhetorical or not, which he said: "Where are the millions of euros for the structures of the state? Too bad he's not there, because we could say to him, "Well, look, here. Here there are millions of euros to make structures in the summer. Why? Home! So why read the reports of the General Directorate of Presumptives of the Generality and say to them: "The preliminary memory of the preliminary draft law of..., foresees an increase in costs of 10_million euros. But the Directorate General of Presumptives tells them: "No, it won't be 10, it will be 20_million euros. More than €6_million that the Cesicat has in its budget is €26_million. That is to say, an extra cost of 20_million euros to create a cybersecurity agency that, if there are no elements that lead to mistrust, at another economic moment, we might get to hear, but in the current circumstances we do not understand. But all this, barred with the fact that especially the use that has been made of resources to ensure the security of the network, from our point of view, has not been an effective use and, from our point of view, has not been a use that you serve to generate confidence in the network. On the contrary: the fact that it is personal data filter, the fact that it is electronic mail credentials filter, the fact that it is said that the corporate emails of the Generality workers can be under the control of not well known who, this does not contribute to generating trust. And so, as I conclude, these three objective elements, because they are part of the objections that appear from the very structure of the Administration of the Generality, important, under our criteria..., and more so we share the political view of the non-necessity of creating us organizations, u; two, not-necessary to increase assumptions too much, and, three..., donating the functions that they are, or leaving the functions that they are, to the Cos de Mosos d'Esquadra, that have at least demonstrated so far that they are hermetic in the tasks that they carry out, which has not happened to the Cesicat foundation..., is what makes us say that we do not trust that this Government will create an agency of these characteristics. And this is the motto of our goal to the totality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.5.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. In order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jean Castel has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, MPs, MPs, as I'll tell you, we'll be back in front of something that starts in a hurry and badly. Let us continue with the press, let us continue to take a step forward, and you, counsel, have told us all about the decade of what you have to do..., or what the Césicate was, where we have to go in the field of cybersecurity, but you haven't told us at any point in the field of competition. You... the competitions already know that they hold them in that cove, that they only use them when they see that they're in favor of what they're defending. When those competitions don't please them, you elude them. Look, as far as the alleged competence in this area is concerned in the legal report of this project, I'll tell you that it's more than questionable, and we can start making a gap of everything that can be questionable, and we'll get the opportunity before you start listing different points that are very questionable. But I'm going to tell him that neither the national cybersecurity strategy nor the state agencies... that they want to be involved in. Just there, before we go on: from the Conselleria d'Interior... Sometimes I'd like to than the conselleries..., to be able to talk to each other, right? , and I had no hope as the deputy of the People's Party intervened, when I saw the councilman who put him in the canto. I said: "Power there will be a point of light that..., this communication. And I can remember the words of the councilman... whenever we talk about that meeting famous for security... that I want to remember that Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and Citizen we approved a young man, and we have not yet seen the result of that finding so urgent that it was to be brought to term, that we have not seen. But when we talk about the Security Board fixed 'which emanates different things that will happen at that meeting: the vision of the increase in effectiveness, how we will deal with security – also, counsel, cybersecurity – and how we went in a coherent way... That's why I'm saying that the presses are painful, because if this meeting didn't happen yet... where we have to ask for an increase in effectiveness, which distribution we will give to it... Obviously, we also have to ask the Government of Spain, power, more resources in this autonomous community to cope with this increase. Sometimes the counselor has been told about it, many times, but also about the scope of security. Just so we start something, as I said, quickly and poorly, where there will already be a lack of coordination, a lack of coordination and intercommunication. Because security, and cybersecurity, I want to remind you, comes from the realm of this autonomy has a state sphere, competitively state, where after the different autonomous communities, such as this, Catalonia, will be linked, and will be, councillor, as you have said many times, intercommunicado. That's why I tell him that sometimes, power, the lack of communication between counselors..., when one thing is said..., it's gift..., the other should be able to apply coherence and know how to do, and, power, to wait for what is produced in this famous gathering that has not occurred. Miri, the Cesicat, in that primitive that began, had felt it. The Cesicat Foundation attached to Governance. Obviously. And I had some very flattering initial goals. But I tell him it was the arrival of Convergence and Union to this government, in 2010, which broke it; all the objectives that the Césicate had to have are broken. And it was immediately converted into a spy game, a spy game by Mr. Felipe Puig, where we saw that everything that was denied in the first place after it had been recognized further ahead; where we saw news included that some of us were stunned, when we talked about one council member looking or investigating another, huh? – we're talking about Mr. Gordó. I recommend that you shoot the hemerotheque and you will find many, of this type of news, counsel. I see you say not with the head, but I recommend it: documents's, because the past is written. I'll also tell you that we don't need or want a cybersecurity agency that created her obeixi to the traditional conspiracy theory, right? , to this conspiracy theory of Convergence and Esquerra. Now the policy of cybersecurity, of course, but in the competition field, as it did in the first place, obviously; obviously, we must have a policy of cybersecurity, whenever the competition field is respected, in full coordination with which it has the competence: the Government of Spain, Councillor; which has the competence in this area is the Government of Spain. And it is intended to create a new organism that already begins, as it gave to the iniciator, in a hurry, badly and will become opaque, dark, because and uncoordinated. And with public money we need to know how to prioritize. As the company that preceded me said, at times we have to set priorities. And when we lack resources to do so much in the social, health, education and so many others, huh? When, let's face it, we don't have enough money to do everything that's a priority, you're rushing ahead with something that's going to involve a presuppositional game and a expense. I also want to tell you, cybersecurity, as well as integral security... that, with uncoordinated and lack of intercom, you know what it's going to turn into? Beyond a useful tool, it will turn into a source of conflicts, into a source of conflicts of what is so much feedback after yourself, right? Because you seem to believe the monster, the monster begins to create conflicts and then you say: "What a pity everything that happens to us. Listen, if they're the inducers normally, if they're the inducers of great creations... and I don't want to talk about what they do and are unsustainable in time, and that's what's clear. Look, security is much more..., and sometimes from the inside we say it's a resource and a valued, highly valued service. And, as I once told the Councillor of the Interior, unfortunately we only find him missing when we lose him. We have to do and focus on the way to do things right, because, if not, then we're stuck for the wrong start. But do you know what's going on? That behind there's a loser in a public appeal. Of course, when this is played by a particular, look, the particular that you do what you want, but when this institution, that the public being that plays and manages... you know what I'm saying? Which must have a basis of responsibility and know how to prioritize, and not, somehow, continue this advanced forward as you usually do. I want to tell you..., and I want to make a call to that part of Greens Initiative that is in the canton of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC; I want to make a call and remember that during that tripartite government, which was accompanied by the Republican Left, it was created the Cesicat. And it started well, and it had clear objectives and, as I said before, very laudable, but the Césicate, to enhance research and development in Catalonia, was the direction to companies, to the protection of enterprises and organizations of the Generality. And it completed this function while that tripartite lasted. With the arrival, as I said before, with the arrival of Convergence in power, after two legislatures, as it turned out to be broken, it began to misuse what was to be a tool. To defend the law's proposal that the government defends is to deny; it is to deny a good initiative that, in the best of cases, should return to its original function, leaving behind, as I said before, the game of spies, the conspiracy theories, eh? , which sometimes involve this one during its stage, when it was Convergence and Union. And you have to remember... you were talking, in your decade, with a lot of good intentions, about everything that you will give us; but, listen to me, you have to remember that the same police of the Generality - Mosos d'Esquadra sees a lot of reticence. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't say no; I don't just talk to your government, or I don't, sometimes, as we do many times, we land, we go to the street, we talk to the squadrons, we talk to the unions, and we talk to all those people, who also have an opinion, counselor. I already know that, for a band, their opinion cannot be public, in many cases, because they are appointed, but some parliamentary groups, such as Ciutadans, in this case, sit down and listen to them. That we understand that it would be the duty of the government, too, and of that councillor of the Interior and of a councillor of the Presidency that carries a subject that may be of this collection you do not see clearly. But I also want to say that, further away, because it is thought of as an instrument to stay the nose where it is not god. This is the vision that you give to what you present to us. And, above all, on the margins of the autonomous police and, above all, on the margins of the judicial authorities, because the priority is to defend itself from the horrific attacks that the government and the various bodies of the Generality usually have. When you talked about being the great safety tool, you know that sometimes the subconscious brings us. And you, when you spoke of it, said, literally, "Protect us." So long, you're protecting yourself. Listen to me, the coherent would have said, "Give good protection to our city. That's why I tell him that sometimes the subconscious goes forward. Miri, more motius, in this draft law, contrary to the applicable national law: with Law 36/2015, of 28 September. We could also talk about national security, Law 9/2014, 9 May, in general, communications. We could talk about all those competitions that are out of bounds, but, look, as I don't have much time, and time is what it is, I'd like to make four conclusions. I would like to recall a motion for a resolution tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, together with the People's Party Parliamentary Group, and to speak of coherence. We are consistent: Citizens, in the Congress, when he asks for a commission of inquiry for which he has passed with Mr. Fernández Díaz – I will not post him title, in this case, as others do. But I will also say this: we are asking for consistency in this institution, because I want to remind you that, in the last parliamentary term, when Ciutadans presented the proposal for the resolution of the creation of a commission of inquiry into the cases of espionage that had been donated, to which Parliament was asked to arrive and to agree on the creation of a commission of inquiry on the organized plot of political espionage and illegal escorts... – I mean, there was a staggering force –, listen, this was debated on April 10, 2013. You know what the result of the vote was, don't you? , the armoring of some to the fact that this commission is carried out: 39 votes in favour, of the People's Party, Citizens and a Green Initiative, at that time, and 88 against, Convergence and Union, Left and PSC, and 2 abstentions, of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP. Miri, finally, we could talk about the "political xiringuites, who have been named, but I don't like to talk in a detail, and that's why I won't go into what some people call "the" political xiringuite", but the lack of transparency... They don't even have the published accounts of 2015; four days ago the web didn't go out – now it's out, huh? Since a few days ago, power, because I knew I had to come here. But I'll tell you, too, in the organigram, if you go in there, you won't see a name. Transparency law? Miri, in account of worrying about the law of transparency that should apply to this body, no, we worry about creating another one outside our jurisdiction, and we cover ourselves with glory. May I remind the same Catalan authority of the sanctions in the field of data protection? I mean, we could do a whole different thing. And, last but not least, the Catalonian Police Union continues to complain about having suffered that data attack. Listen to me, we could do a lot..., and continue, and time, as I said, is what it is, but, as a matter of fact, these are the precedents of the Césicate, the agency's predecessor organism; this is the opacity with which the Césicate works; as long as the law ignores, on the matter of administration, the powers of the State – let's return to the powers –; and as the law's rewriting gives a great margin of discretion to the agency's action... Listen to me, we want to know when an agency...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.7.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.8.0	...what capacity do you have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.9.0	...the time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.10.0	I'm done, President. Well, we could go on. This is why Citizens have presented this message to the totality, they understand that it is neither haste nor ill, and they understand that the mobility and public appeal that you implied in it are gross. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. All the same, we will now proceed to the turn of interventions to fix your position. In the first place, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.12.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies... I also greet the people who accompany us from the public. Well, there's been reference in the previous intervention. Indeed, the Cesicate is a creation of the Governing Council. And probably if the Césicate had been limited, it had been burned to do what it was predicting to do, what it was in its statutes, we would not find ourselves with the current debate. Because it's worth taking a little rest from what we're here for. And we're here thanks to Felipe Puig. What's wrong with you, huh? We are here thanks to a series of circumstances that have been known, that have been denied, and that, later, they have ended up recognizing, on behalf of Mr Felipe Puig, in committee in this Parliament. Mirin, we are referring to the preparation of reports on social activists; whether or not it was based on information that was already published in the networks is relatively irrelevant, bearing in mind that the Césicate could not have any way of keeping between its functions to follow up the activities of social activists, of which they called for demonstrations through the networks, because from the end of the lines this was a cyberthreat. No, calling a demonstration through a tweet isn't trying to get into the Generalitat de Catalunya's servers to do anything about it, is it? Secondly, because there were some studies for the implementation of the Cerberus program, which is a programmer, let's say, we could say, "spy," which allows you to activate cameras, microphones, geolocation; access mobile phone folders and delete them, for example," which first denied that it existed, after being told that it was only to protect agents acting in covert operations; but from the point of view this justified that in the studies on the feasibility of implementing it there was a presumption that it was asked for the feasibility of installing this application on a third-party phone within a short period of time and without further knowledge by this third-party. This, I think, would be said to an undercover agent: "Listen, you'll have this security element on your mobile phone that you can pass through. That report I said... among his assumptions, he had this one. Also, a report on the conversion of the Césicate into an agency of Catalan national security, which, further, perhaps, from the fantasies of each, is certain that first it was denied that the same document existed and then it was attributed with..., go, apparently calmly by who did it, to the spontaneity of a worker or worker of the Césicate, who had decided to do this as an internal exercise, huh? All folded, obviously, ended with the cessation of the director of the Césicate, Mr. Carles Flamerich, who obviously had nothing to see, this cessation, with nothing I have said so far. Well, all this has provoked an intense parliamentary debate, and also in the context of public opinion, in which the forces of opposition and many people, security experts and people involved in social movements, were asked, with Youth, where they kept their guards? "Who is watching our watchers? And all of this, after this parliamentary debate, led to the unanimous approval of motion 75/X and later resolution 535/X of the Parliament, which somehow claimed some of the aspects – some of the aspects – which contained this bill. We are also here because this bill of law, in a different form, obviously, was included in the Law of fiscal and administrative measures, which the majority of Parliament, which the Government, had to withdraw due to lack of parliamentary support. I must also say – and this goes with this content, but also with many others – that this content was in one way forced and that we are getting used to it that in this and in other parliaments it serves the laws of accompanying assumptions or of fiscal and administrative measures of tailor's rank, with a technique that I think is abusive. On the other hand, we are also here after an important warning from the same Directorate General of the Police – this has been done – respects the exorbitant functions, overlapping with those of the Police of the Generality of Catalonia, of which the agency is intended. Now, do we have the skills to create a cybersecurity agency in Catalonia? We think we have it. That these powers, obviously, must be coordinated and cannot be contradictory to the powers that the State exercises and has in this matter as well? It seems to us too. And even I would say: beyond the classic competition discussion that we are used to having in this Parliament, for the subject matter of what it is..., probably if it were to be analysed by subject matter too would have the same logic, but for the subject matter of what it is all about the logic of coordinating cybersecurity activity in Catalonia, the rest of the state and even at the supra-state level, because, obviously, threats are not necessarily authentic and the tools through which they are to be answered probably require these degrees of coordination. And it seems to us that in the content of the bill there are some questionable aspects from the point of view of competition; what happens is that, unlike the People's Parliamentary Group or the Citizens' Group, we hope to address these issues in the legislative process of the bill. Miri, I said before..., remembered Motion 75/X and Resolution 535/X. There the parliamentary groups were calling for a series of questions, many of which had to do with transparency, with the Parliament's ability to control the activity of the Césicate, or the cybersecurity agency in this case; with good logic, with all the precedents I have exposed. Now, in the project, we're missing some of these questions. For example, the proposal to define the relationship protocols with Parliament and the parliamentary monitoring and reporting mechanisms that should have included follow-up reports that had been agreed upon in Resolution 535/X is not a step backwards. It seems to us that it would be good to have it present. From the point of view of the economic impact of the project, beyond the cost you can assume, which may seem reasonable to us taking into account the objectives, the fact is that there are some open questions; there are currently no taxes, but the possibility that there will be no tax in the future is left open. And it must also be said that, even if in the first additional provision of the project the benefits of the Administration of the Generality and of the entities of the public sector affected by the functions that the agency will develop are added to the agency, it does not fit into the dispatch of the antecedents that accompanied the preliminary project a description or inventories of the assets that are intended to be attached to the agency and, therefore, cannot be valued. Therefore, it is difficult to assess the heritage implications of this heritage listing. On the other hand, from the point of view of the functions, we have said, there has been, since the Directorate General of the Police, a series of warnings; it is possible that some of the delegations have been more or less reflected in the draft, but it seems to us that, even though the agency will work with the judicial and police agencies in accordance with the existing legislation, it will act in a coordinated way with the police and public security units and that it will coordinate with the police for its cybersecurity and protection of the police information systems, even though there are some in the way of the functions, it may be for an unrecognized framework of the functions of the General. For example, in everything that affects the investigation and repression of criminal offences, which is obviously the competence of the Police of the Generality. Nor does it seem to us that the agency's obligation to inform the police of all incidents that, although they are not criminal, may have a transcendence on future incidents of major gravity or provide other information relating to some type of illegal activity is well defined. Nor is the need to exclude from the agency's field of operation the cybersecurity control of police databases, which is expressly attributed to a specific unit of the Police of the Generality that exercises control functions, management and supervision of its information systems, and it seems to us that this is an issue that is no less, also taking into account some of the precedents that we have mentioned. Well, I've got a little time. I'll just say that I haven't exhausted the catalogue of questions that seem questionable to us about the project. I was hoping, wait, go, as we say, that in processing it will be possible to address these issues that concern us and we believe that other groups should also be concerned. And we tell them that if the project does not experience substantial changes at the length of its parliamentary processing, it is very likely that they will find a negative vote from the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the end of the processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.13.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr. Joan Giner, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.14.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Let's talk, let's start talking seriously, because there are things here that don't... that lack seriousness and rigour in speaking time. We live in a changing world, and I think that more quickly than many of us are here, and it's one thing that's... we need to make a self-expression, we need to make a... we need to flagulate ourselves a little bit of the skeleton, because we're not really up to what it stands for today, I believe, cybersecurity or the fact that cybersecurity has in society where we live. Every day... before, the bandits stormed the roads, and now the goods, society, our lives, go through the streets, and that's really where we're yielding a share of power every time bigger and we're not conscious. If we see how they're spying on the NSA and these great global agencies, and the embolisms that are on the mountain, like the example of the Snowden case, we see how there really is a latent power there, a power that is the power of information, and now we're seeing how we're in prehistoric times, we're still on the canvas of white and black. And that's one of the problems in the Spanish State and Catalonia, one of the problems that is theoretically intended to solve with this bill. In principle, and for this reason, we believe that this cybersecurity agency needs to be forwarded to this law, because we believe that it is a necessary tool to familiarize public administration and society with certain concepts that I believe we need to start with some. In the future we'll hear about massive attacks, denial of service, botnets... I don't know if they sound, botnets: they're infected networks with programs that attack public administrations, and the people that attack this public administration are the same citizens, without knowing it. And that's happening right now, and that can cause big companies to have no sales for hours; it's gone to Amazon, for example, or there are, for example, big corporations, like the United States, that have gone on as well..., have rejected denial of services and leaks. Why can't you pass on to the poor, little Catalonia, to the poor administrations that we have here and that today we only have a security agency, a pseudo-security agency, that would be the Césicate and that is not at the height of the circumstances. Therefore, and to speak seriously, we have to understand that cybersecurity will, say, be the police of the future, and that it will control the public order and the order of administration, will be the most important trunk of citizen security; the most important trunk will be cybersecurity. And we're late; so let's talk about it, but let's talk about it seriously, because if we start joking we can talk about what cybersecurity has been like in Catalonia so far. And now... we're talking here about Mr. Puig and what the Césicate used, for example; we'll see how we really need Mr. Pérez Andújar, who comes and talks about the comics of the sixties, because it really fits more into the cybersecurity agency of Mortadelo and Philemon than into a real cybersecurity agency. Fixi's, huh? , a report came out a long time ago where ideológically journalists and activists who – as some companies have said here – were involved in demonstrations and were ideológically dangerous. So, count, get over it – get over it – that one of them is now a deputy and he's here with a microphone, huh? Count, count, count! Please! Was that a cybersecurity agency? Let Pérez Andújar come back and explain to us a story of his, please. Actually, we can't afford that. Before the PP's companies talked about cybersecurity in the Spanish State... It has to be recognized that the other day Mr. Snowden went out for The Sixth talking about how the Spanish State had been violated in terms of privacy on the part of the NSA and left much to be desired. So we don't give cybersecurity lessons either, because as far as we're here, we're a little lost. And I can remember a couple of concepts, I think, in this – a couple of concepts. And it is that neutrality in the network and technological sovereignty must be the elements that allow us to defend the rights and freedoms of the citizens. There was talk of cybersecurity from a security point of view and there was talk of cybersecurity from a security point of view to guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens. That is to say, we have to monitor very well the competitions, we have to monitor very well what these agencies do, because if not at the end we are not created a cybersecurity agency that gives you serious and rigorous cybersecurity, but we are creating a Catalan NSA..., a Catalan CNI or, failing that, the TIA of Mortadelo and Philemon. And that's not the point. We need to create an agency that gives you cybersecurity in a serious and rigorous way. In short, the Administration has to pull this out. And Councilwoman Munté was talking about the European Union directive that came to her again, because it's actually August 10, a European Union directive that talks about cybersecurity standards. And basically this directive is a lot of a contradiction to the law they're presenting to us today. Therefore, we will have to change this law a lot if we want to convert this into a cybersecurity agency and not the Cesicate 2.0 or the TIA of Mortadelo and Philemon. Because, if not, Pérez Andújar will have to come here to explain one of his stories. This directive really says..., says two very interesting things; it says: "You cannot create the Catalan NSA, you cannot create the Catalan CNI or the TIA of Mortadelo and Philemon, you must create a cybersecurity agency. And they have to focus on such important terms – and sometimes lack of rigour to the law they have presented – "as for example the basic services and key infrastructure of the country. Imagine Mercabarna col·lapsing one day for a computer attack? Can you imagine? Can you imagine the port of Barcelona col·lapsed some day for a computer attack? Can you imagine an informatic attack on water potabilizers? This is the danger we face in the future, and right now we're still on the black and white TV on these issues. So, we're working, and that's where we have to make every effort together to make sure this doesn't happen. And by the end, and speaking of spies, of spy play, we have to decide whether to play spy or do something serious; but I'd like a little rigor here. I don't know if anyone has agreed – someone has agreed – that in terms of cybersecurity the borders work differently. We do not plant this as a competitive concept or as a Spanish conflict against Catalonia. At the level of the networks, the physical borders are different, there is no autochthonous or external attack; the attacks are global and can give many points at the same time. Oh, come on, it's not about talking about borders talking about cybersecurity. That's where I leave it, huh? - That's where I leave it. [[Some applause.]] And to go close... and we go back to being serious, which I think is important. The most important thing is that the strength that allows you to control the networks is in the hands of the Public Administration, because it is the only organ, the only element that has a democratic control; not in the hands of any private company, such as a mixed model in the United States. Not here, we need a cybersecurity agency to be the spearhead, the stronger trunk to protect public order and administrations. And it is very necessary that this Catalan agency pulls forward, that it has strength and that it is dedicated to doing what it has to do. But, at the same time, we need to guarantee the taxation, representativeness and social control of this. And already, to begin with, with the extended hand and with a constructive attitude, we can start with some change, for example, that in the maximum organ of this agency, is the Parliament that designates some of its members, as happens with the Data Protection Agency and not only executes it. It would be something interesting, which could start talking. And I would end with the same recommendation that the Socialist Party's companion made: if they really want this Catalan cybersecurity agency to pull forward, that many know it's necessary, we'll have to calmly, broadly, and change many of its aspects; if not, I believe it, and for what I've heard today, that it won't pull forward. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.15.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.16.0	Good morning. Good morning, President; good morning, Counsellor. We'll start our intervention a little at the point where the company left him. Jo did the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Perhaps I would refer to it as the company, and with other groups in the chamber I am not so clear. [[You want to laugh and laugh.]] Yes... but in any case, what's obvious is that we have a first difference in relation to the model, the structure model they're planting. It is clear to us that, as the concept, we are in favour of advancing the construction of the basic structures of the Catalan Republic and that, therefore, the issue of cybersecurity is also a matter of state structure, and that is why our vote will today be contrary to the elements of totality, to allow it to be processed. But I think that, as in due course during processing, we will pose two or three, and one is, obviously, the theme of the model. We say so because the counselor when she spoke, I think she said we were in front of a public structure, right? And, of course, when we read the law and read Article 1, we see that it speaks of regulated activity by private legal order, that it speaks of a company, of the constitution of a business model, with board of directors and that it will be governed, in any case, by civil, commercial and labour law. Therefore, it goes far enough from the model that we understand that, as a public right body, it should be constituted and should regulate this issue. We said so because we won't swallow a Halliburton in Catalan, to say the least. We, the question of security, will not privatize it or endorse that you are in private hands. It's too important, he's already explained it in Joan Giner, and in this sense we share all the arguments; but, more importantly, because it's logical, because if it's a body that's going to be coordinated with moves, with courts and with prosecutors, that it's all public and official bodies, it's logical that the cybersecurity body is also eminently public and constituted to function and rule by public law. Therefore, first question, the model, very important, because, if not, this bill will not get approved. Second question. Under the circumstances, speaking of a subject as delicate as security, it is not about how we protect freedom. I mean, at the moment of the law, it's not about what it's like to respect the rights of speech and the civil and political rights. We will not endorse an agency that you post for a secure model. We need to talk about freedom, we need to talk about how, in some way, we will look for mechanisms of control, of balance, of guarantee of freedom, of equality, of justice, of questions that, for us, if not, this public order in abstract form that has stood here, for us, does not work and does not interest us. We are interested in protecting public order if it also serves to protect these other values, and therefore we have to work there. Because what we cannot afford, precisely, is to reiterate all the problems that have arisen with the sanctions, which the Government knows, of the Agency of Data Protection, the Cesicat, for the persecution of activists – which has already been explained – of journalists, for the elaboration of lists of suspicious people who are going to demonstrations. And, therefore, for us, it is important that we regulate how this law is covered, and that we are competent with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and, therefore, in proportion to the question of the inviolability of home and the secrecy of communications, etc. I mean, we're not going to endorse a Cesicate model like we've had so far. Nor will we endorse a CNI model, which, by the way, here, those who are lovers of presuppositions, has left me with no explanation of what the CNI costs, has it? Because we're looking at a lot of what the Cesicat costs and we're not talking about what the CNI costs. Jo, the last data I found is 223,69_million euros – 223,69_million euros. This is exactly, if I'm not mistaken, the cost of six thousand teachers, at least in Catalonia, six thousand – six thousand teachers. So, well, that's what the CNI is spending. I do not know how the CNI works, I have only had an experience, which is called "Raval case", where there was a macro-mountain to hold Pakistani citizens of the Raval. It was a question raised by the CNI. After Wikileaks explained all the entanglement that had taken place in the past, and this very Parliament had to position itself, precisely, in relation to the innocence and freedom of these people. Therefore, we do not share the CNI model, nor do we share the Cesicat model. We do not share the Cesicate model because we have experienced the most of the Cesicate model is the Cesicate model of the Puig era. I understand that things have changed – now there is no Mr. Giner here. Obviously there are things that have changed, we won't deny it. But when we think of Cesicat we think of those words of Councilman Puig, don't we? , when he said to him: "We will hold the law to the maximum, until there comes the law and a little more, to avoid manifestations. This was said by Councilman Puig, who was then in charge of making and managing this model of Cesicat that came to us today. Or a phrase maybe even more illustrative, right? , of the first on board of Mr Puig, when he said to us: "They can be stored in a grave, in a cove, which is where the rats are piled, or in an assembly, which does not represent anyone, or behind a chair to the university, but we will find them. So, look, the rats are here today. [[Some applause.]] Today the rats are here to approve this bill of law and to ask, precisely, that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past and that we build a cybersecurity mechanism that is respectful of rights and freedoms, respect for ideological diversity and respect for parliamentary control, which we also think will have to have this entity. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.17.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then there is the word Lluís Guinó, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.18.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, spoke of rigour in previous interventions. I was told that talking about rigour in the information society and in the knowledge society is talking about Manuel Castells, and when he defines the information society and the knowledge society he refers to different characteristics that coincide, most of them, with some of the questions raised by the different parliamentary spokespersons at the time of diagnosis of the situation and the need to have a law of cybersecurity in Catalonia. It speaks of the great volume of data that this society contains and that manages this society, and that it develops in this field; it speaks of omnipresence – there is absolutely information about everything – irradiation, instant speed, multilateralism, interactivity, and it refers, too, to an aspect that has a more sociological fall that is the issue of inequality when it refers to digital bretsa, but this is another issue that we do not deal with in this field, but it is a subject, from a sociological, sociological and political point of view, interesting to highlight. These characteristics make that among all we need to have this law. That is why I am surprised that certain political groups – in concrete terms, the People's Party and Ciutadans – do not understand that it is necessary to take advantage of the parliamentary debate precisely to contribute better to a law that we present a first proposal here, but that we understand that it is clearly better in the parliamentary work that must be done, precisely after this debate to the totality that we are today. I will not go into the detail of the justifications of the papers to the totality, because frankly they hold, and in some cases they result in particular contradictions when at a certain time a motion has been voted in this Parliament, more so, with a degree of demand on the part of the parliamentary groups that today present the papers to the totality and that we unanimously approved that a security agency is created, because the reality today, as Mr Giner emphasized, requires more than ever a regulation. And we are not talking about strict regulation to put into doubt the freedom and rights of the citizenry, but it is clearly a protection mechanism, which is one of the aspects that I would particularly like to highlight. In a digital society, digital archives need protection and defence, and in some ways, these guarantees that need to be given not only in the Administration, but also in the private sphere, are one of the functions that this new agency needs to develop. We are talking about what, and we want to make reference to it, precisely, and in accordance with the demands of that young man, we understand that the foundation was not the appropriate legal formulation for the new agency, and we believe that, from a democratic perspective, from a perspective of accountability and from a perspective of parliamentary control, the structure of this agency is much more appropriate. Therefore, they are basically a reason to enrich the democratic debate, which we will already do in the debate on the law; but, for another group, too – and it has been said in some of the interventions – we have a special interest and defense that there is parliamentary control of the functioning of this agency, and that, moreover, from a perspective of finance, in some ways, also maintains the requirements of public finance regulation, which they know perfectly well that they are especially demanding from that perspective. We need to protect ourselves, basically, from cyberattacks. The councillor explained the large number of attacks on the network, the magnitude of a quantitative point of view is spectacular, but the effects of a qualitative point of view that these attacks can have are especially heavy. At a certain point, it is not just the concrete attack that can occur in an environment, but the consequences that it can have in other areas of the Administration. I already know that in parliamentary groups you did not particularly independent the 9-N experience will not just satisfy them, but you must say that two days before 9-N there was a very well planned, powerful cyberattack that did not only have a consequence for the same organizational structure of the department or some of the departments of the Government of the General, but also very directly affected the citizens. There were difficulties in the whole issue of electronic reception. And, therefore, when we defend cybersecurity, we do not do so from a strictly institutional perspective, but we basically defend citizens' rights and freedoms to interact with the Administration. It has been made necessary reference to the fact that this law will have to be adapted to the European directive, necessary, and therefore, from this perspective, we are open to all provisions, which this directive in some way configurable, we have finally incorporated into this new law. Certainly, we have work ahead of us. Congressman Ferran Pedret and Congressman Giner have referred to it as a law that, somehow, from a parliamentary point of view, we will have to sweat it, because we have their vote, and we will do it, and we are willing to do it, and the councilwoman has explained it. And, from a parliamentary point of view, I assure you that Together for the Yes wants to work on this law, because we do understand that it is a particularly strategic law, especially a fundamental law, and therefore we are willing, I insist, to work on it. Moreover, it is not only a matter of acting when an incident of these characteristics has already occurred, but this law is intended to do, in particular, a preventive task, to increase or extend the scope of protection beyond which we have it now, because the difficulties, I insist – and it has been said in different interventions – are especially punishing. We defended, too, that as the strategic structure is a clearly state structure, and in this we agree with the intervention made by the member of the Benet Salellas CUP. Leave'mfer reference to the interventions of the drafters. They ask them to reflect and to have time to withdraw the slogan, and not to put it to the vote, among other things because the diagnosis and the need for it is a practically general coincidence. When you speak of lack of rigour and conspiracy actions, you are only part of your imagination, not of the imagination of the people who develop and work this law. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What I can explain to you... – if..., if you can listen to me – is a question that has to do with the fact that all the rear-view policies that you have put in place and the rear-view actions that you have put in your interventions is that, from a legal point of view, you have not had your objective and empirical accreditation because some of the suspicions that you have put in your interventions have taken place. In fact, the prosecution, at a certain time, went, at last, to file one of the complaints filed. Beyond that, it takes them, and not to make it concrete: leave the rear-view mirror in the band. We give them the opportunity to work on the ground and in a consensual way a law of cybersecurity that is absolutely necessary, and that we are more willing to work on the ground. And I'm telling you honestly, they're doing it, practically from tomorrow. It is an opportunity to agree on a law that has a clearly integral character. And this law does not only affect, I insist, the government structure, but also the public and private activities that are developing in our country. And I agree, of course, that we are not talking about issues that I have to deal with with the easy dichotomy and easy dialectic confrontation between the competitions of the Spanish State and Catalonia. It is a material to work in a coordinated way, with collaborative, participatory effects. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, coordinated, yeah. Security policy is a necessary coordinated policy; but it is not only with the Spanish State, with the rest of the states of the European Union, that, as it has repeatedly defended itself... that you defend so much the policy of the Mosso d'Esquadra and that I have been able to concentrate so much on this law in the sphere of strict security of the Department of Interior... that we understand that the field can be more global, it can be expanded. In fact, the difficulties to the networks are not strictly focused on cybercrime, but rather on the competences that depend on the Department of Interior, but rather on the more general problems, and therefore we understand that the collaboration between the agency and the Directorate-General of Police and the Department of Interior must be normal, habitual and correct, and that, moreover, it can be complementary; and that, moreover, the agency can help at the time of detecting certain crimes that are committed or crimes that are committed precisely in the network. But the basic function of the security agency is not to detect only the crimes that are produced in the network, there are no others; it is, I insist, the vital element that you have somehow failed to highlight or have not taken into account, and that sometimes you serve them to participate actively in the elaboration of this law, which is prevention. We need to advance the perimeter of prevention of these attacks, which certainly make the normal functioning of the Administration difficult and difficult or can make the development of private activity very difficult. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.19.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the totality papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party and the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.20.0	Contradictions with Mr. Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.21.0	Yeah, yeah, come on. Have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.22.0	Thank you. A few brief points: the first, the fact of presenting a statement to the totality, Mr. Guinó, does not imply that we renounce to participate in the process of issues and, therefore, try to change the orientation of the bill that we have presented today. According to the question, you said that both Motion 75 and Resolution 535 called for the creation of an agency and were approved unanimously. That is not true; Motion 75, which asks the Government, is that I assess what legal form it must take and that in any case it must be the foundation, and, indeed, this motion was approved unanimously. But Resolution 535, which says explicitly that it is a government agency, was not approved unanimously, because our group did not support it. And this is one of the arguments for which today we have presented the message to the totality. And, finally, with the role of the squadron moss in all of this. Look, one thing that happens very often, and it happened to me the next 15 days, is that I do operations across the network and support the credit card data. Where are you going to report it? To the Cesicate, the Cybersecurity Agency, or the Squad Mossos? I think you know perfectly well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Let's call it a vote... which seems to me to be everybody. [[Long break.]] All right, let's proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The total was rejected by 31 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. As the totality has been rejected, the law of creation of the Catalan Cybersecurity Agency continues its processing. [[Proposal for the Law of the Tax Code of Catalonia and for the approval of the first, second and third books, relating to the Tax Administration of the Generality of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00039/11]] The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on the tax code of Catalonia and the approval of the first, second and third books, relating to the tax administration of the Government of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and of the People's Unity Candidature - the Constituent Creed, present this legislative initiative. In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, has the word Mrs Maria Senserrich. [[Pause.]] They're asked to leave in silence and in a hurry, please. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.24.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, well, today we begin the first of the debates of what must be the transcendental law for Catalonia, and we do so with the debate to the totality of the proposed law of the Tax Code, for the creation of the organizations that must set up the Tax Administration of Catalonia. Before, however, it is essential to carry out a brief analysis of the situation of the context that surrounds and affects the finances of the Generalitat de Catalunya. We find ourselves with the perverse situation where we rely on a financing model expired in 2014– an incompliment of the Spanish Government–, a model on which more than 85_per_cent of the entries do not manage them from Catalonia, a model that assumes that the Spanish State wins 8_per_cent of GDP – xifra that represents the total assumption of Education, Health and Social Services. And we find ourselves again with the perverse situation where political discretion forces us to depend on the FLA. Because we have a clear idea of the situation, and with figures: while the Spanish Government, its ministers and some political parties are boasting that they have left us – « left us, because it is a loan– 50,000_million euros, of which we have practically paid 1,800_million euros in interest – I remember: they have left us, because we are returning», the Spanish Government, in change, has rejected all Catalans, independentists or not, 344,000_million euros from the year 86 to zero. I look at the ciphers, what blunts they are. While they ask us to give them thanks, maybe it should be the other way around. So, we find ourselves with a Spanish government working, which doesn't, but the worst is that it doesn't even let us do it. In fact, it does not leave us absolutely anything, it challenges our every attempt of fiscal policy on the part of this Parliament or on the part of the Government, all: the tax on deposits to banking entities, EUR 625_million; the tax on nuclear energy, EUR 50_million; the tax on empty floors, EUR 11_million, and the tax on telecommunications operators, EUR 16_million. Total: more than €700 million a year, whether we don't have all Catalans or Catalans, we're still independent or not. Neither fan nor let it be done; it is clear. In short, the Spanish State has given up being the State of Catalans. For this reason, we are clear that we need to equip ourselves with the tools to be a normal country. And here comes the import of this proposed tax code law, where we do two very important things: the first, to obey the democratic mandate of the elections on 27 September 2015; second, to lay the foundations of the Catalan Tax Administration, a state-of-the-art structure for our country. With what? So, first of all, we need to be very clear about what kind of history we want to have. That is why it is essential that the bodies and institutions that constitute the Catalan Tax Administration must guarantee and preserve this model of heritage that we all want. And what's this model we want? So, an efficient, effective, modern, service-oriented and cooperative, transparent, legal security-guaranteed and tax fraud-renewed record. With two great challenges: the first, to have a tax system that drives the voluntary– voluntary compliment, because what we want is cooperation and trust, and then, the establishment of fiscal policies to boost the competitiveness of the productive economy, attract international investments and hard to redistributive social policies. That's why the first differential and new, which we propose, is a law with code format. So many are going to ask: what does it allow? What's the difference? , what will allow us to do legislation with coding format? First, to strengthen legal certainty; secondly, to have a regulatory coherence, with a strict order and systematization of the tax law. This allows us to be open, adaptable, maximum transparency and maximum simplicity. This means that it is an orderly, understanding and up-to-date legislation, because the text we are presenting today obliges the Government to maintain an annual updated version of the code. Why? To facilitate our understanding, accessibility to the tax law of our country, because this has to be clean to the citizens of this country we want. The other novelty, therefore..., we present four institutions and organizations that are to constitute what is the house of the Tax Administration of Catalonia. The Tax Agency of Catalonia, the Board of Tributes, the Tax Council and the Institute of Tax Research and Tax Studies. All of them, all of them, are essential to hear the model that described them before the history that we want and with the aim of increasing our country's fiscal awareness. The Tax Agency, the first of these, was created in 2007, is obviously not new, and has made various modifications during these years. But what we do today, with this presentation, is give it more autonomy, more ability to be effective and effective and prepare for the challenge of the future. An autonomy, as I said, essential to fight against tax fraud, to reduce the tax gap, is to say, the difference between the potential recollector we have as a country and what we actually receive. Reducing tax fraud is essential to maintain an advanced, modern history model of the countries in which we want to emmiralate. The second body we have is the Board of Tributes of Catalonia, which replaces the current Board of Finance, which is the Economic Court administered by the Generality of Catalonia ; that it is certain that it already exists since 2003, but it has not been able to assume all its competitions, because it has been strongly coerced by the Spanish State for constant incompliments. And many will ask: "And that of the Board of Tributes, what is it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What is an administered economic court? So, quite simply, it is basically a body that gives resolution to complaints, to appeals related to the application of taxes, to the imposition of tax penalties and to the recapitulation of other public right entries from the Generality. It is basically an organization to defend citizens' rights, with a free, accessible and agile procedure; the model we want to inherit. Basically to reduce litigation and to avoid the legal process, which is costly and very slow. This is the function of the Board of Tributes. The other novelty? It's the prosecutor's council. This must be a finding point between entities and bodies that integrate what is the General Tax Administration, and entities and bodies or associations that represent the different professional collections that are dedicated to the fiscal advisory in Catalonia. We cannot ignore a reality, and that is why it is essential, as I said, to cooperate and collaborate in an open and transparent manner, with the aim of increasing voluntary compliments and maintaining a tax system, I repeat, for the benefit of the citizens. The Tax Council will, therefore, be a further advisory body for the Government, for the tax administrations of Catalonia and also for the Parliament of Catalonia – this way, for this chamber – it is also an instrument that we will have at our disposal. This Tax Board will also consist of two commissions: one which is the Protection of Taxpayers' Rights, which would be the Taxpayers' Office, to hear us, and the Technical Advisory Commission. And it also counts on a novelty, which is that it's a registry of tax advisors. But not just a register, but together with a code of good practices, good conduct, and this will allow more transparency and more recognition of the sector, which is doing well and which needs to continue doing well. These are the people who want to be our tax advisors, our country, people who do well and who are representative of the heritage model we want to have with the country. The fourth, and also new, is the fourth instrument, which is the Tax Research and Tax Studies Institute. There are four objectives: the knowledge and research that makes it possible to improve the tax system, because we always have to evolve and innovate; a centre of reference and international tax knowledge, because we cannot be without looking at the world what is happening with international taxation; and, thirdly, it has to go further than the studies of public entrances, not only in taxation, but also as we spend, which public expenditure does the administrations do, and, fourthly, it has to be a training institute for professionals, because we want to have the best professional to hold the best service. Therefore, we set the foundations to a state structure. We can say that we are ambitious because we incorporate and reaffirm our conviction of which history we want to build, with the principles of: service vocation, facilitation and promotion of voluntary compliments, fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, promote trust in the tax system, legal certainty, guarantee of attention and resolution, awareness of tax compliments, promotion of good practices, quality services and innovation, transparency, retention of accounts. These are the principles that must prevail in the history of our country. And as we understand that history is the responsibility of all of us, we want this debate to begin today... everyone can make better contributions. It's not a locked text. In fact, now we start the debate to the totality, that we are convinced that everyone will want to make contributions to it. We are willing to talk about it, which is the best law in the history of this country. In fact, our great ambition is to do it well to make it possible and so to complete, as I said, the fact that on 27 September the citizens of Catalonia asked us to do so, because listening to the ballot boxes is a duere, is our duere, and with the construction of the Catalan Tax Administration we create the essential instrument for having institutions and services worthy of the quality for all the citizens, because we follow a modern country, ready and just. And, finally, I want to thank the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Creed Constituent, in concrete to the deputies Eulàlia Reguant and Anna Gabriel, the work done, and to encourage us to continue working, because this is only the principle and we have a lot of work to do. So I would also like other groups to join and continue working to make this project a very well done and country project. I would like to thank, yes, the confidence that my parliamentary group has attached to me to have the honour and responsibility to carry this law, and especially the Roger Torrent and Carmina Castellví, travel companions, who know that we will do it and we will make it possible because it is a reality, and to all those experts who have been working for a long time, have advised us, have helped us, there are and will be, and we will make it possible that this is, as I said, a reality. Because we must be worthy of our work, and, as our dear Muriel said, we are more likely than ever to be a normal country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.25.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.26.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Before we go in a little bit to talk about this law proposal, we do..., or we want to do a brief analysis of why we're coming here, to explain what we're doing today, but especially what we've been doing and what we're doing next month. And it is that we are convinced, because we suffer, that we live in a system and a regressive tax system – and yes, we are a little repetitive, and all the times that are needed –, a regressive tax system that hinges, basically, on the returns of work and consumption. And in the background, the liberal tradition seeks to make believe that the current political system has grown spontaneously, that it is natural and that, therefore, it is impossible to change it. And it is a farce that history denies us because political emancipation has been achieved through struggle and with the always fierce opposition of the elites, who have always refused to redistribute wealth. In times of severe economic crises, such as the present and the past few years, it is when the system cannot store its shames, not only with the arsenal of stratagems, with inclusive propaganda, that it uses. It is then when the DNA of the system emerges, the promotion of inequalities, which is materialistic and consecrated, and also through the tax system. The neoliberal policy implemented for the European Union, whether for the right or even for social democracy, has pivot in the reduction of taxes to the rich with the alleged argument that this decline favors and encourages and stimulates the economy. In line with this dogma, the successive reforms of the tax system in Catalonia, the State and various Western countries – or of the anomalous ‘West' – have stood out for its regress character, which has resulted in the inability to sustain an index of social expenditure comparable to other countries or other moments of history. And Brussels orders, hands and wins. For years he has insisted that the immediate objective was to rebalance taxation through indirect taxes and to reduce direct taxes. Here the Spanish State has been a loyal one, without engaging in the anti-democratic character of this mandate, because the appeal to democracy is the use when it is concerned, the Spanish State obeys Brussels, and after several years has caused different fiscal reforms that have been mostly in an increase in indirect taxes and, therefore, in regressivity. So we've been working on the current situation, on the disaster: less taxes, because, as President Rodriguez Zapatero ruled, lowering taxes is left-handed; banking and financial deregulation; almost complete elimination of the functions of the control of the Bank of Spain and, of course, because it's also a lot of left-handed, taking over bank over-indebtedness and helping large private companies. All this has placed us in a scene in which it is evident that the State does not seek to satisfy the needs of the majority, of the popular classes, but of the powerful minorities, parasites and extractives of the social wealth. And when we got to this point, we'd love to get back words from economist Michael Lebowitz, who said, "If you don't know where you want to go, you won't have to go. Still, knowing where you want to go is just the first part, it's not the same as knowing how to get there. And we know that we have different experiences and abilities, hidden from struggles and different traditions, cultures and conditioning. And we are aware of the complexity of the various obstacles we face. And it is that we believe that the alternative to a just, progressive and redistributive tax system, which serves to promote social development, also passes through, as has already been mentioned, the fight against tax fraud and the great fortunes. Because in Spain tax fraud is estimated at 6_percent of GDP, which is equivalent to about 89,000_million euros that are no longer charged annually. One_of_each_four euro escapes from tax control; a xifra which is located in excess of the European medium. In parallel, it should be stressed that the Spanish economy accounts for 23_percent of GDP, which is explained by the fact that hundreds of tickets of five hundred euros are circulating in Spain – which I do not know..., which I imagine some of them have not touched hands, but I assure you that our parliamentary group has never touched hands – which is estimated to be some EUR 45,000_million. 72_percent of tax fraud is committed by large estates and large businesses. Thus, we have managed to have more than three thousand variable capital investment companies, which managed an accumulated wealth of more than 26,000 million euros, subject to an absolutely beneficial regulation. And this happens in the State, but although some people agree to say it, tax fraud is a thing of the Spanish State and it is a thing of Catalonia, there are no different things: 16,000_million euros of tax fraud, we cannot, only and exclusively, pass this responsibility to the State, there is also tax fraud here. It is in this, in this construction of this real alternative, assuming the differences of paths often taken that, in the conviction that the political stake that we need to defend and that we need to work on it is that which revolves around the existence of different real and material sovereignties, sovereignties such as food, energy, residential, cultural, reproductive and productive, economic sovereignty takes a relevant role. Why is it that in order to have the sovereignty to decide which public management is essential the ability to recap our own taxes, but also the willingness to redefine them, to set capital control policies, to have an operating public bank and, finally, and why not? , the possibility of issuing currency. But today we are talking about the ability to recap our own taxes and also about the willingness to equip us with tools to redefine them in everything that is necessary to obey the function and mandate that we assign them. And it is for this will to build sovereignties and to build economic sovereignty that on November 9, 2015, in this chamber, among other things, we approved that "the Parliament of Catalonia considers it appropriate to start the process of processing the laws of procedure to constitute, social security and public history, and this is the part of the way that we jointly build, a way that today continues to advance, despite the work and the obstacles that still remain. And, as has already been explained, and therefore I will not repeat what Mrs Senserrich has explained, it is a law that establishes the framework of all the tools that we must equip ourselves to exercise our sovereignty. This first read is just drawing these structures, it's just establishing what we need to do, and we're on our way to search. He draws it, because the will is also that among all here we can improve it, discuss it and find ourselves - there is still better and more comfortable. And we also assume as a necessary self-criticism, that 2007 was the year that created the Catalonia Tax Agency, which has passed eight years and that we are still explaining what 2007 was approved here; that, therefore, it means that in this elaboration of the tax code, in this deployment of the necessary tools, we also have to assume that for eight years the person responsible has not done all the work that would be near him for, at this time, to be more close to this necessary economic sovereignty, or to have at least equipped us with a tool that allows us to develop more and better the tax system of this country so that it is a system that is truly responsive to the objective and the need for the public to redistribute the necessary resources. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.27.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. In defense of the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Antonio Espinosa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning... well, I was going to say lords advisors, but I see there are none. It turns out that this tax code should be of little importance to them, because they also show a little bit that they are democrats of convenience, because, a subject that should have been passed as a bill, they intend to paste it as a bill. But, well, I start my speech by saying that if I have to summarize what we in Citizens think about the proposed law of the Tax Code of Catalonia, I would say that it is a score that is not bad, but it is much better, and it sounds fatal. And do you know why it sounds fatal? Because the interpreters, which I believe are around, and some have not even appeared, are not the right ones. Look, we share with you the idea that a tax system can only achieve the degree of excellence by encouraging voluntary compliance with tax obligations, and that is why we believe that the administration should turn and make it easier for citizens to do so. We agree on that. We share the philosophy that persists in emphasizing the obligation of the tax administration to promote and promote voluntary compliance and the spirit of service, seeking maximum legal certainty in citizens and reducing the tax gap as a basic and fundamental measure in the effectiveness of the tax administration. We therefore share the effort to bring civil society closer to the civic duty of contributing to the sustainability of public expenditure. We also, Members of Parliament, like the idea of a tax agency supervised by the Conseil Fiscal de Catalunya, whose president is appointed by the Parliament. This is good for us. We also like the incorporation into the tax system of agencies that are directly involved by elements outside the tax administration itself. For example, university professors and representatives of tax associations. We recognize that this is really an innovation that follows the best tax practices at international level, and we think it is a good idea, which should serve to foster dialogue between society and the administration, and which would certainly lead, in the long term, to a reduction in the litigation between the administration and the taxpayers. We also share the attempt to make a timid management of the tax advisory sector, including a public register of these and a predictable regulatory development on them. But, ladies and gentlemen, so far there are coincidences, from now on there are only discrepancies and differences, hence our amendment as a whole. To begin with, tell them that from Citizens we consider that the articulation and writing are very improveable. For example: it is said that they are intended to simplify rules, but the law itself begins with the very first articles that are truly indispensible, typical of a statement of reasons and not of a normative framework. Mr Vice-President... – I'm sorry, Mr Vice-President is not here, I wanted to address him, but I will then address the groups that support him. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts pel Yes and the UPC, I told you at first that you are democrats at your convenience. Yes – yes, yes – it is undemocratic to skip the opinions of the competent Catalan consultative bodies democratically established. And you, in order to jump the..., is how you have sent us here a bill and not a bill drawn up by the government. This way – this way – they jump... [[Funnel veils]] – yes, man, yes – in this way the opinions of the competent bodies, which certainly – certainly – would have revealed to them the unconstitutionality and the anti-statutoryness of the norm, are skipped. You really don't want to hear the truths that hurt you, and unless it's the Catalan organs that tell you. We are faced with a tax code that does not intend to order the system and improve service to citizens, but rather falls within the laws of disconnection, so the real purpose is to have a basic element on which to build the secession. The absolute lack of knowledge that the rule makes of the system of sources and the division of jurisdiction is noteworthy. It is so gross the breach and so obvious the over-competition, that it shows the clear that we are faced with another provocation to the State and a deception to the citizens. A new attempt at victimization, when the inevitable and certain challenge and subsequent resolution of the Constitutional Court takes place. What else can be sought and claimed when it is obvious that the tax system must be unique, unified and coordinated? What else can be sought when it is obvious that only the State can dictate interpretative rules for assigned taxes? What else can be sought when the constitutional and statutory lace that this law must have is dispensed with? Ladies and gentlemen, this law aims to build a craft made up of collegiate bodies: Consell Fiscal, Institut d'Estudis, etc., which is, frankly, apparatusy and expensive for a collection of assigned taxes, which, after all, is a collection that does not reach 3,000_million_euros and own taxes that do not reach 100_millions. Therefore, the citizens of Catalonia do not need a tax agency at the service of independence, but at the service of taxpayers. The citizens of Catalonia do not need a state tax structure, they already have it – they already have it – and it is called « AEAT, State Tax Administration Agency. And they have a tax agency in Catalonia for the management and collection of assigned and own taxes. In Citizens, we are committed to a close collaboration and coordination of the Catalan Tax Agency with the state agency and with the rest of the states, especially the European Union. Look, this is the only way to effectively combat tax fraud. A fraud of billions and billions that, in addition to being unfair, prevents that money from being used to improve the lives of millions and millions of people. So, look, it's not about replacing the state tax agency with the Catalonia Tax Agency, it's not about replacing a tax agency with yours, with your state structure, but coordinating agencies and efforts to provide a better service and collect more. We could agree – in fact, we are – on a resized tax agency for better management of our own taxes, to fight tax fraud more effectively, but you don't really want that; you intend to supplant the state agency and create one of its so-called state structures. You are willing to do so even by losing efficiency, collection effectiveness. And so it has already been warned by the registrars of the property, who warn us that, probably, 100_million per year would be lost, with that..., with the incorporation of the liquidating offices to what would be the Tax Agency of Catalonia. We need to make progress in fiscal integration between the central administration and the autonomous administrations in order to achieve coordination, to make coordination real, to promote the essential exchanges of information, to take advantage of economies of scale and to make a more efficient and effective system. In our integrated tax administration model, we believe that it is reasonable for the autonomous communities to participate effectively in the design of tax administration policy, including the identification of action plans and objectives and the allocation of resources. Deputies of Junts pel Yes and the CUP, do not count on us to create their unilateral independent tax agency, which, uncoordinated by the state agency and the Europeans, would know nothing or could do with the defrauders who take their money to Andorra or would be unable to charge an execution of a debt when the taxpayer has their assets in Aragon, for example. Look, I want to conclude my intervention in a positive and constructive way, and therefore I propose to you, on behalf of Citizens, a pact: since this law has no real possibility of being implemented; since it contains some positive and innovative aspects; given the escalated representation that Esquerra and the new party that has created Convergence have in Congress, where they no longer paint anything, I propose to you to support Citizens in the drive and approval of the draft comprehensive reform of the Tax Administration that Citizens will propose in Congress for its modernization. In Citizens we want a tax administration where there is more transparency, more responsibility; a tax administration that encourages voluntary compliance with tax obligations and increases legal certainty; in short, in Citizens we want a tax administration for the benefit of all Spaniards and, therefore, also of Catalans, even the independenceists. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.29.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. In order to defend the totality presented by the Popular Group of Catalonia, Mr. Enric Millo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.30.0	Well, Madam President, Members, Members, I take the word on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to defend the reasons for our presentation of a statement to the whole of this bill. In fact, you speak every day of reference or reference, but before you do the reference and know the result of the reference you are already making the state structures. So, you don't have to do the reference anymore, you've already decided what the result of the reference is, so you're already shooting straight and you're already there, right? They'll find each other. In fact, the interventions we have listened to in the presentation of the project, especially that of the Junts representative for the Yes, made it very accurate, very technical, didn't it? , very concrete, is to say, talking about the good things of the agency, talking about the generality's skills, and saying a little bit about the authentic objective that he pursues and that if we look forward to seeing statements of these past days, then it is very easy to deduce, isn't it? "The Parliament brings to the plenary the law of the Catalan heritage, one of the main standards of the legislative package to be taken over by the disconnection period. This is a press headline that I read this morning and that could be perfectly endorsed by any statement of other Junts representatives for the Yes and the CUP, that these days have gone, so, feeding a little the climate before this debate today, right? They say that it is the most important state structure for the process, because, obviously, to get to independence what needs to be ensured is that there is the corresponding money, right? It is, therefore, one step further in the escalation of deproposals that it wants to bring us to the final chaos. Certainly, you have followed a whole tortuous and twisted itinerary to arrive today to bring this text to the House of Parliament, with a clear intention, that it is continuing to boost the coexistence between Catalonia and the rest of Spain and to bring this illegal process to an end. While the content of the wording of the proposed law can perfectly justify itself in the mark of the exclusive competence of the Generality to self-organize, there is no doubt as to what purpose it pursues. Here I think we don't have to fool each other. It is true that they have taken great care to avoid that the proposal cannot relate directly to Resolution 1/XI or to the additional provisions of the law of measures, which have been annulled by the Constitutional, but the proposal is a concrete step in the proposal of the report of the Council of the National Transition when it speaks precisely of the tax agency or of the Catalan Public Agency. This is, therefore, the first consideration, the previous one; it is a proposal of law presented for the parliamentary groups of Junts for the Yes and the CUP, although they have publicly stated that it was the result of one of the three joint questions created at the beginning of the legislature with an objective which was to draw up the proposals of law of disconnection, provided for, certainly, in Resolution 1/XI, annulled by the Constitutional Court. The presentation as proposed by law of two parliamentary groups makes it possible to avoid two important things – it is a technical skill, isn't it? –: first, it circumvents the link with the twenty-i-dose additional provision of the Law 3/2015, of fiscal, financial and administrative measures, in which the Government is guided by the elaboration of a board of directors of the Tax Administration of Catalonia, and which has also been annulled by the Constitutional Court – Judgment 128/2016, of 7 July –, and second, it also allows to avoid the connection with the joint petition that, the result of Resolution 1/XI, annulled by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, was governed by the processing of the law of the public archives. Very clever, but here we can't fool ourselves; we all know what they're talking about. That is to say, the form chosen for the legislative procedure clearly seeks to decouple the initiative of other agreements already annulled by the Constitutional Court, but it is clear that what we are talking about is exactly the same. In this same line, and before entering the content of the project, as a general observation, it must be said that from the conjunction of the norm it is clear that it is an open document, that it is armored with skilled linguistic formulas, such as: « when its application corresponds to the Generality, « when the procedure is applicable to Catalonia, etc. It should also be noted that the text avoids any reference to the Spanish Constitution, as if you do not exist, but also to the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in itself, right? The proposal of the law which we are debating today does not at the moment reflect the concepts of taxes and taxes, which are, for example, contained in the law in force, the Law 7/2007 of 17 July 2007 of the Tax Agency of Catalonia; the rule, of course, that this proposal of the law purports to derogate. It is only established that local taxes remain outside the scope of the Catalonia Tax Code, but at the moment it is a reference to the State tax, as if there were no tax, nor to the State Tax Administration Agency, with which the Catalonia Tax Agency maintained a great relationship of collaboration, and which is cited on various occasions in the current Law 7/2007, which you wish to repeal. On the other hand, this proposal for law refers in no greater detail to taxation or to taxpayers in general, without ever specifying which taxes are found within its scope of application, is to say, which are the taxes it manages, inspects and retrieves. Nevertheless, as I have said before, it is worth noting that it is obvious that the accurate regulatory technique used complies with the terms used, which thus gives the text presented a great ambiguity. For what it does to the content of the bill, I will not go into an exhaustive, legal analysis of the different articles of the bill's proposal and of the possible reasons that allow to deduce clearly the existence of arguments that justify the unconstitutionality of at least a good part of the content of the rule. I don't think I'm supposed to do this job, but, lastly, just as an example title – just as an example title – it can be said that the very expression of the rule's motto refers to the ordering of a system of standards referring, among comets, "to our tax system, which is clearly incompatible with the current system of distribution of competitions in the State and which has exclusive competence, as you know, in the matter of general history, in competition with autonomous competence over matter and which prevents the existence of different or antagonistic tax systems; something else is talking about collaboration, but not antagonistic systems. In line with this, for example, the first book refers to the object of the code, to the tax system of Catalonia, of which they intend to formulate the general principles, when these principles are already fixed and collected with a basic character in the exercise of the previously stated competence. This determines that, in a strict interpretation of the constitutional order, the formulation of general principles in tax matters is not possible to enshrine it through autonomous regulation. It's worth highlighting a thorough technicality – I've said it before, huh? But I repeat it because really this cheating way of doing things, I think... man, if not, it's worth congratulating them, because they know how to do it very well, don't they? – to highlight an accurate regulation used according to the terms emprats. Because the text establishes which organizations will form part of the Tax Administration of Catalonia, but does not list, for example, which will be the taxes to be regulated, controlled, and recaptrated. Curious. On the other hand, it is necessary to appreciate unconstitutionality in the additional provisions 6, 7 and 8 of the second book, relating to the access of the three functional bodies of the tax agency created for the norm, that in establishing that they can only participate in the functional access tests of the Government of Catalonia or that they have been enabled during the two-year term for the exercise of these functions, they can assume in the regular practice a restricted turn of access to the public service, which clearly implies a breach of the principle of equality. Thus, there are several requirements in this rule that clearly point to unconstitutionality. But, as I said before, I won't go into the concrete details, first of all because I don't correspond, and because I wouldn't have time to say other things that I want to add today. In view of the joint view of the legislative proposal, there is no doubt that it consists in the execution of a new tax administration which can only be dependent on the willingness to assume new functions, which at present does not have, in view of the size of the tax administration which suggests this rule, which is absolutely improper of the current autonomous tax system; clearly. It is, as I say, an oversized institutional tax structure for the existing autonomic tax system; it has not felt. In all the drafting of the legislative proposal, including the supporting memorandum and the explanatory statement, it is omitted, as I said before, and deliberately, any reference to the current tax structure – state taxes, taxes on transfers, propitious – and it only refers to local taxes and collaboration with local tax administrations. It's obvious that there are things here that aren't even explained in the norm. That is to say, the law that is drafted is under the appearance of the absence of the existing tax mark. It's a demeanor. It is clear that the Generality has exclusive competence to organize itself; no one denies it. Tax administration too; no one denies it. And the government knows perfectly well that it is the criteria of the Constitutional Court to interpret the legal provisions for its statement, not from the proposals or intentions expressed in the margin of Parliament. For this reason [[Funnel veils]] – exact – the law was intended to draft according to these criteria and trying to untie it from any other acts previously annulled by the Constitutional Court. But we can't fall into this parany, at least here we can't fool ourselves. Three elements that show what I just said. First: the legislative initiative relates directly to the twenty-i-dose additional provision of Law 3/2015, annulled, as I said before, in the measure that contains the determination of the institutional, functional and personnel structure, the economic system of contract and property, and, in short, constitutes the institutional structure of the tax legislation of Catalonia, which was precisely the explicit object that pursued the nullified provision. It's a parany. Now, this proposal doesn't come from the government. Ah! It's not a bill of law, the one we're debating today, is it? , but it is a proposal by parliamentary groups. In this way it is intended to save the disengagement appearance with an nullified precept. Secondly, it is also not possible to assess this proposal of law, as I said at the beginning, on the margins of the report according to the Council Counsellor for the National Transition, entitled "The Tax Administration of Catalonia; it cannot be untied. Under the heading "The tax administration of the appropriate State, says that report", to which the court has certainly never referred, because it has not been debated and approved here either," he says: "The tax administration of the appropriate State – page 23 and later – "we can find the inspiring principles of this new tax administration – new – many of which are literally reproduced in the proposal we are debating today. In paragraph 4, specifically, from the same heading we find the explicit element and the functions of all and each of the bodies that intend to create this initiative around the tax agency: the Tax Council, the Institute of Tax Studies, the Board of Tributes..., finally, the General Directorate of Taxes. And under the heading "Strategies and measures aimed at the creation of the tax administration of the appropriate state– page 88– it is explained, among other things: "This phase has to be developed in the framework of Spanish legislation, since it is still not possible to have a tax law that allows the construction of a tax system. In this framework, and further ahead, it is explained that "the construction of the institutional structure can be initiated unilaterally. And even devotes a whole lot of space to it, the second – on page 99 – "if Spain wants as if it doesn't want, it is to say, insisting on this argument of unilaterality. And third, to conclude: this proposal of law purports to give partial compliment to paragraph 5 of Resolution 1/XI of the Parliament, annulled by the Constitutional, which contained the command to legislate on public history, in the framework of the process of creating an independent Catalan state in the form of a republic. There can be no doubt that the Tax Administration forms part of the broader concept of public history, and even though there is obviously no explicit reference to the annulled resolution, and even so it is formally avoided that the legislative initiative is the result of the joint thinking created expressly – even so – and given the foregoing, it is, as I say and try to prove, obvious that the processing of this law is closely linked to that resolution that was annulled. In summary and conclusion, this is not a legislative initiative aimed at developing the constitutional powers of the Generality, but rather at forming part of a strategy aimed at separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's not our obsession, it's his obsession, that the social majority of Catalans don't pick up and that the courts have already told him that this way they can't go. And the obsession is yours, to continue on this path. Therefore, conclusion: what is it that you are doing today, deputies and deputies of Junts for the Yes, Convergence, Left and the CUP? First, along with correcting and rectifying what they already know can't be done, this government insists on the error of following a wrong path, avocado to frustration. Secondly, along with the establishment of a dialogue solution to the conflict that the Government of Catalonia has generated against the State, today the will to impose a full route that will only serve to fuel the confrontation is confirmed. And third, along with a message to the Catalan society of serenity and guarantee of future stability, what they are doing today is to boost once more the brand of coexistence that unites us all. Certainly, Mr. Vice-President, when someone is fixed as to propose unremovable skip all the red light that is found for the road and neglect all the need to comply with traffic standards, the most likely is that it ends without a driver's license. And if, however, he insists on following the same path he doesn't have to explain to him what the end result of so much heroization can be. You already know, the President, but also President Forcadell, too. That's why I'm telling you, and I'm done with this – I'm done with the time –: don't drag everything we've gotten the Catalans in these thirty-five years of self-government. I do not curse the arrival of all those who have preceded in the work of making Catalonia a land that is bright and just, where I live in pau, within a Spanish plural and competitive in the world. Respect the social majority of Catalans and Catalans who do not want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.31.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.32.0	...this full...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.33.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.34.0	... of the course of the process – and I finish, President – which you inexorably want to impose. Recticyquin, in regaining the sign they have lost, accept that there is no other way than to respect the names of coexistence and the defense of general interest. In short, they abandon the path of confrontation, which brings no positivity to anyone, and resolutely apostate for a realistic dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.35.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.36.0	...and build, which allows us to build among all a future better for all Catalans. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.37.0	You've spent a lot of time, Mr. Congressman. In order to defend the totality presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Ms. Alicia Romero has the words. I'm sorry... yes, Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.38.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Vice-President, Councillor, Members and Members, how many things I want to say, and I don't know if I'll have time and I don't know if I'll be able to get it all together, because the truth is that the interventions of the Members of the Senserrich and Regant have raised a lot of comments that I want to do and that I want to emphasize. But in any case, I will try to be straightened out and follow the order I had set up, and here I will go incorporating some things that have suggested to me their interventions. Look, today you're presenting us with a tax code that's a confus text, a plain text, and a text that doesn't pursue the object you're saying. If we read the statement of reasons, you say that the objective of the Tax Code is to improve tax standards, because they are complex, because they need to be updated... And until here we can agree, it's true, so... it's just a very complex matter of the right and, therefore, it's true that it would be good to straighten them out because they were much more understanding and to be able to apply them much better. If that was true, I'm telling you, we might agree. But what you say about the motion statement and the text that we find later have nothing to do with it, because you neither straighten out, nor update, nor actually raise anything about what you say about the motion statement. What they basically do is lay down general principles of tax law, largely copied from the Spanish Tax Law, which is the one that has jurisdiction over tax law, and modify some organs that already exist in Catalonia and create us. Change the..., that is to say, remove the Law from the tax agency of 2007, in order to make a new one – after I enter it – and create some other organs: the Board of Tributes, the Tax Council, etc. Honestly, to do that, it doesn't tie a tax code. We do not believe that the tax code's instrument is the most appropriate way to amend Law 7/2007, of the tax agency. Why didn't they change the law? And why haven't they created us organs? We believe that you say without saying, and above all one thing that is sometimes worse, that is that they say what they don't write. And here's where we'd like to put up with a little. Now that this word is so fashionable, what we believe, quite frankly, is that you do a lot of posturing with this law proposal that you present us together for the Yes and the CUP. And I say, 'Why is it that you have explained here today things that you do not say to this law, that you do not say to them.' You can interpret it, we can interpret it too, but you don't say it, you don't talk about the..., that's to say, you don't talk about anything we don't have here. At this point, we have a given tax and a favourable tax. Don't say we don't have others – don't say we don't have others. And you have talked here about fiscal policy and the ability to collect and manage all the taxes they collect in Catalonia. Okay. Listen to me, that's not what your law says. You don't say that to her. In any case, I would say to them: "They have been a little brave, a little bold. I suppose because they wanted the Constitutional Court to come, another time, to detail its law. But let's face it, if you really want to make a summer and have some laws close to an independent state, be brave. And they're not on this law. General principles of tax law copied from the General Tax Law, and then, they speak of organs that, for the most part, already exist. Therefore, frankly, I have found lack of courage, not so many Junts for the Yes, but perhaps yes for the CUP, because I do not see – I do not see – in this Tax Code no advent – no advent – about what you say. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, They say... when they talk about the tax agency, they repeal Law 7/2007. I'd like to know that they didn't like the previous law, that they changed exactly. What do they change that they have to repeal it and make it a new one? Because – then there will be a little more – to me who seems to me, that what you do, basically, is: less control, more dependence on the government, more resources; that up to here, with resources, we could agree, but precisely what it seems to us is that, with this change that they make of the tax agency, you..., or we lose democratic control; it is a more government-dependent agency and therefore we cannot agree. Actually, I, of you, would plant a little of his model, because it coincides a lot with Ciutadans. If I were the CUP, I'd be worried that Ciutadans would match both his model and his principles. Go on, I don't match it. If Ciutadans matches it, I think they should look at it. It's one of the things that cost me the most... that surprised me the most. Listen, they're talking tax model. You know that, don't you? , who laid the tax model to Catalonia were some consultants who commissioned the government Mas, private consultants such as Deloitte or PricewaterhouseCoopers? who are the ones who have helped many companies to try to do tax engineering so as not to pay the taxes that touch them? It is these consultants who have established the tax model of Catalonia, with the documents. And you, if you analyze well – if you analyze well – what you plant in this law, will see how you clearly see – clearly – the focus and the emphasis and emphasis of these consultants. Because I think this law is about privatizing or opening up the possibility of privatizing some of the tax agency's servants in relation to tax management and other items that I'm going to comment on, but then too, like, less democratic control, more government dependence, and so I honestly think we'd have to look at it a lot. Actually, it's lucky that we can handle this, and so we can debate it, we can bring in fellows who talk about how they see this law, we can do papers, and we hope that the government, therefore, is open to some input. On the tax code, to go by pams, I said to them: "Copy, you, many articles of the General Tax Law. I suppose, in the end, the State doesn't do everything wrong, there are things that are fine and, you know, there are articles that copy them exactly. They talk here again... in Article 1.21 of the Tax Code, they talk about tax transcendence data. We approved it yesterday, but they're bringing it back to us today. I don't know exactly what difference there is. I'd like you to explain it to us, because here they say exactly the same without incorporating district councils and deputies. You say: "We will obtain data from third parties with tax transcendence. But don't make it concrete. Yesterday we made a statement, we said: "I advise the regional council and the parliaments. Okay. We would like to be able to enter a little more in detail into this, because then this element appears again in the Tax Code. Article 1.25 – I would like to put up with it here. I think this is a pearl article, this tax code. Tax system agents; create a new figure. Okay. All right, we're out of work, like we have a lot of people at work, so it's fine. It is understood by the tax system's agent, 'to the effects of this apartment, all private entity or socio-representative institution of sectors or social, occupational, business or professional interests, capable of participating through collaboration with the Tax Administration in the management and collection of taxes, in the information and assistance to taxpayers and, in general, correct, tax. I mean, I..., if I don't get it wrong, you're opening the door to the privatisation of the management and the collection of taxes, because you say it here, listen to me: "Private entity. That is to say, it turns out that Mr. Saved – that I see him here in the gallery – is saying that he will internalize the management of the executive way that makes the Spanish tax agency and the taxes given, that at these times manage the liquidating offices. And it turns out that in this tax code you open the door to the fact that private entities can manage and retrieve. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen, that's what you say here. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, listen, they'll explain it to me, I hope in the process they'll explain it to us, because that... Tax agents. New figure. They'll explain exactly what it's for. Then they create another figure – we've innovated a lot on this law – which is the figure of tax intermediation, and ask for a law to regulate it, with an official register of intermediaries... Well, he'll explain to us exactly what this intermediation is, if the service they do will be paid, if that means that we also open intermediation to privatization. In fact, I..., here are the doors, you, that..., both good and not good confirming our suspicions. But, of course, considering that the origins and pairs of the creature are some consultants in the private sector, so it's hard not to think about it. Therefore, we have many doubts that only these twenty-five articles of the Tax Code are not open to, for example, the privatization of some services on the management and collection of taxes in Catalonia. Tax agency..., because, listen'm, Dec, you have twenty-i-five articles. The general tax law has 271, it's like we've done one thing, in short, very accurate, huh? , very narrow, not so, I suppose, that..., well, that we go into mass fists with other administrations. Tax Agency of Catalonia. You, as you said, repeal the law. Some things that do not please us from this new tax agency that you believe, because I have to tell you that the state structure was already created, was created the year 2007: the Tax Agency of Catalonia. And, it's true, Mrs. Regant said, since 2007 she's approved, and we've been carrying a few years of non-deployment from this law. I already know that there are some who, with the fact that they no longer want or accept the Statute as usual, therefore, no longer need to deploy either the Statute or the Law of the tax agency. But it already existed and has the margin to grow and has the margin to deploy. Listen, some elements that we don't like: less democratic control, to us seems to have this tax agency. Why? So, for example, the program contract between the tax agency of the Department of Hisenda disappears. Okay. This is control, and then it's evaluation – the program contract disappears. The report of the work places will approve the address, and will not need the report of the Directorate General of Public Service; before he needed it, it was not precept but calibre, now it will not be warm. They propose, you, a specific regime of variable remunerations that will already be regulated by the Government for which it does the tax code. That was already there, in the previous law, but taking into account that this proposal comes from the CUP, I thought that this variable remuneration dependent on the government, which is quite arbitrary – it seems to us, to us – would disappear, not disappear. Another pretty surprising thing. The Catalonia Tax Agency – which was not there – is allowed to formalise legal negotiations on good and good rights. There is no prior report or authorization. Listen to me, the majority of dispositions on Catalonia's property regime require authorization from the government and, in many cases, Parliament to sell rights. So, now, the tax agency can sell and make legal deals, huh? You said your text, didn't you? I didn't make it up– he said his text. Direction without independence; the direction of the tax agency, because it calls it the Government. It seems to me that it was Congresswoman Reguant who in a committee demanded that this address be in an open competition, approved by Parliament..., in short, that it was a little more consensual. I see he didn't make it, because he named it the government. Tax-related costs. In this, Mr. Saved already knows, with the tributary bodies we already had a lot of battle in the modification we made in 2015. In fact, there are a couple of articles that you have suspended, that you have annulled the Constitutional Court, and that you will do it again, but not by any means, it turns out that you have some articles that say that to access some things you can only access those of the General Administration that you do two years that do functions similar to the tax field. Ah, can't I introduce myself? Can't anyone introduce themselves to anyone who doesn't work for the generality? So, no; you're saying no. Listen, this is against the principle of equal rights of citizens. What do you mean, they can only present themselves and they can only access the bodies that do two years of work in the Administration in similar ways? Listen to me, that's what they have to look at! If it's no longer a topic of Spain, of Catalonia, it's a topic of equal rights to the citizen. And you repeat this here another time, knowing that you couldn't incorporate it, and I'd like to know who's the object you're pursuing, because we don't understand it. More things: the Junta de Tributes de Catalunya. Said Senserrich: "To defend the right of citizens, it will be a free service... Well. He says that the board..., one of the things that points to the text and that we have doubts about it is that he says that "the board will ask the college and professional associations to designate a country to develop this task. Is it guaranteed that this country is enabled for the same agency? Do we open, with this text, another time, the possibility of privatization? Okay. We have some doubts about it. I hope the processing is clear. Conseilll Fiscal de Catalunya. Says the text: "It is the body of participation of the professional tax advisors, in the definition and deployment of the bases of the Catalan tax system. Ouch, ouch, ouch, It is to say that the professional colleges, entities, bodies and associations of tax advisors will be the foundations of the Catalan tax system. Visca – visca, visca! But, of course, if we read a little more, it turns out that the fiscal council of Catalonia – this figure of the tax advisors, as it stands here – sees a report carried out in 2014, commissioned by the president Mas, that they made Durán-Sindreu and his consultant, and that he raised..., we work sites, these figures of the professionals of the tax council, who ended up incorporating themselves into this fiscal council of Catalonia. I don't know if these are exactly the ones who have to form part of it and mark the lines of the Catalonian tax system, honestly. Basically, because they have important tasks to do, such as, for example, assessing the control plan of the Catalonia Tax Agency, and therefore, I do not know if they are judged and part and I do not know exactly whether this is the case. Then you create the Registry of Tax Advisers. We say: "Well, what are the conditions? What are the requests? What skills should be required to be in this register? Is there going to be a cost to the Administration? Will there be a cost to the contributor? Why, if we create a registry of tax advisors who make a pocket, will you have to pay the taxpayer? Or won't you have to pay for it? Will the Administration pay for it? Okay. It's things..., doubt we have; but we think we're going to open the door to privatization again. Home, Durán-Sindreu I imagine, when he made the report he thought: "Home, if we believe figures that generate jobs, that we generate trades, oil in a light. So, that's what you've put black on white in this law. So, frankly, a lot of doubts. Last, the director of the council, of this tax council, couldn't he sort out the parliament? Couldn't he have another more impartial election formula? So, you..., it seems no, he proposes the government..., he triages the government at Parliament's proposal. I mean, less democratic control, more government dependence. In short, we sincerely believe that this leaves a lot to be desired. No, no..., pursues an object that is not what you write here, we believe, for a little bit boldly, and, more importantly, they pave the way for privatization with less democratic control and more dependence on the government to return. We can't agree, basically because it's worse than what we have for the tax agency or the Tax Council or any of the bodies that you update and that already exist. Therefore, our vote will be against. If this follows the process, we hope to be able to talk about it calmly and calmly in the law. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, in order to defend the emena to the totality presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has the word the Lord Albano Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.40.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Upstairs in Parliament is what some present as the second law of disconnection. I imagine today at the Media Telenews, on TV3, the news will be: "The second law of disconnection is approved, isn't it? And, well, I understand that we are in front of another important piece of this process report that needs these historic days. Today it's the approval of the second law of disconnection. The one that happens: to the band of what the television says, a look at what you presented to us today and, listen to me, this disconnection, to the letter, well, you don't see it very well either; develop some autonomous skills, and it looks like another shot, so we find each other, don't we? And here at the end, what we find is reality. Well, that's each one's strategies; each one can do the propaganda he wants. Now, we here have to read the documents, read the things and see what the papers are all about. And what do the papers do? They have, these papers we're talking about today, very interesting things and they have very important things that will define, if this pulls forward, the way people live in Catalonia; things that surely, these things will not go out on TV3 today because, well, that's notes a little bit, but that they have to say and they have to put themselves on the table, because they are very important. Today, well, this tax code shows up, doesn't it? I'll put some codes back, some instruments that we'll use to see how people and businesses pay taxes. First of all, there's a problem, and the problem is that we think that before we do the instruments, we need to think about what we're gonna do for them. And this debate has not been held in this Parliament. I am sure that here, that we are all democrats, everyone will agree that who has the most to pay, but, of course, one thing is to say it and another is to do the things that make it possible that this is a reality. We see that, despite the fact that there was no debate, then, when the time of truth comes up, the time to count euros and to approve or not approve according to what, Together for the Yes and the People's Party agree very much. So, we don't have to, but we do have a few majorities that already have clear enough which model of country, which model of taxation they have, and they don't exactly match the territorial model, let's just say, right? Therefore, it is legitimate to ask: "Well, what are we deciding whether or not to do it today? What are we talking about today? What do you invite yourself to talk about? So, we need to look at the paper. And if we look at the paper, well, we can say: "Home, here is an intention to deepen in the ability to equip yourself with suitable instruments to do some things. And we, in general, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot has always defended and we will always be willing to deepen in measures that allow people in Catalonia to work to solve the challenges they have in the best way possible. And that for us is the sobriety that we have come to defend in this Parliament. And let's look at the letter that comes out of today, and there are things, right? – to deepen in the tax agency, the creation of the Board of Tributes, the Board of Tax Studies... –, things that we can debate – we can debate –; in some details, more agreeable or less, we can be useful; we discuss, we talk; there is no problem. Now, this tax code that presents us together for the Yes and the CUP has a very hard problem – very hard – has a huge Trojan horse, which is this tax council, a tax council that at the end, or so, the minimum of sobriety that you may have behind this idea, so it is totally haunted, because you can tell it the law of disconnection, you can tell it the structure of the state, you can tell it how you want it, but the tax council, at the end, is nothing more than to do with the services of the big corporations that do not want to pay taxes. [[some applause]] And that's to be made clear. And I know and I'm convinced that what's left of the Republican Left in this Parliament and the people of the UPC agree with me; I know; I know perfectly well, that this is a trap, that this is a Trojan horse, and I know that because it's too obvious, it's too obvious for the letter and it's too obvious for whom I write it. No person, no person in this Parliament who can present how the sovereignist can consent to something like the tax council that permeates the entire law. It's not a detail, which we'll discuss, it's the basis, it's the big base, the big change that comes up. That's what you're bringing us here means, in the end, someone has already said before, putting fiscal policies, which are one of the bases of democracy, of the sovereignty of a country, in the hands of corporations. And if anything disconnects this law from the ability of this Parliament to do politics, to do fiscal politics, then it disconnects: it is the disconnection of the democratic ability to decide how we want to collect taxes, how we want to redistribute wealth; it is indeed a law of disconnection. And it's normal, today they're presenting it to us together for the Yes and the Cup, but we know that what came to us here is what Mr.Artur But, the gentleman who said, "We're a history for independent Catalonia. With the fem? Let's go to Diagonal, where's your PricewaterhouseCoopers. We go there, to Diagonal, where KPMG is also, Deloitte... Oh, this is published; he said: "These are my experts. The experts are these people who work, that their business is to try, by the means that follow, many times outside the law, in some countries, we have seen..., therefore, to this people we say: "Listen to me, as we can do, this? Well, we understand, and I think it's out of the world, that at some point the Administration, that it's the one that has to collect money, and the citizenry, the private sector, or... so they have to find themselves, and they certainly have to create mechanisms because this finding helps us to do the best we can to recover. We're not against this; now, put these people, who have as their main object trying to pay the least amount of taxes, to tell us how we should do to collect the taxes..., listen, that's what anyone understands; that's what it's about on a TV3 television, even though it's 15 seconds. We're asking them to tell us how to collect taxes for those who don't want to pay taxes. [[applause]] And that's a reality. God to us – God to us –: "No, no... Because I... Congresswoman Senserrich laughs and surely when she comes to you she will say: "No, but you, I don't know, must be very rare, that's what they do in Sweden, that's what they do in Austria, it's supermodern. Let's split it up. In Sweden they do... don't do this, but, well, you say, "No, they do it in Sweden." What happens is that we don't live in Sweden, what happens is that we live in the Catalonia of Garrigues Walker; what happens is that we live in the Catalonia of the Carceller. Do you know them? Those of Star Damm, who when they escape from the tax on industrial scale in accounts to get out and ask forgiveness to the company, have announcements of Star – a lot of monkeys – to TV3. We don't live in Sweden, we live in this Catalonia. He tells us: "No, no, that's what modernity is. In fact, the Ciutadans' company liked them, they loved them; he said: "We could hear each other. And as long as they could hear, if at the end you're talking about the same! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't like it... well, you don't like it, that if Spain does, that if it disconnects it... but when the time comes up to talk about it, you agree. This is modernity. And, of course, when you say "modernity," you say, "Ostres, these must have invented something new that's supermodern, that they do to Sweden, or to Australia, or I don't know where. But attention, huh? With this modernity, because it's not so modern either. In England, the United Kingdom, it's been working for many years, and we know what results it's had, huh? This modernity, because... There is a book, which I have here– much that there is not in Junqueras, but after you have said it–, which is said The Establishment, and to Chapter VI.... Chapter VI is said to be « Magnats and tax fraudsters; you see here the drawing, it's from a..., you must be a tax fraudster or an advisor to the Generality, I don't know. So, in this chapter... I'd give the book to Junqueras or Senserrich, but I can't give it because I have it underrated. For example, I've got the part that explains how these tax councils go to the Regne Unit to help Vodafone, who had to pay 6,000_million_of_liures, just didn't pay 1,200. Clearly, is that reducing the tax gap? He's perfectly explained, and he's asking you that..., we can invite Owen Jones, if that pulls forward, and that he explains to us how the workers of the United Kingdom's history come astoundingly as his system had turned into a coladero in the name of modernity. And that's the reality. Yesterday President Puigdemont spoke that well, that tax fraud was a problem of Spain, that it was not a problem of Catalonia. We have a problem with the president, if he's able to say that, because he's either not reading, or he's not being informed, or he's directly saying the first one going through his head. It was before – it was before – today we have seen the People's Party and Citizens bring their hands to the head saying: "Oh, you want to disconnect! That's what I'm talking about. But at the moment they have asked questions about what concerns us, for example, this business-friendly modernity that you have proposed to us. And, of course, it would be possible to give the paradox that here Ciutadans and the PP vote against that this is being done, but one time it is being done to begin to hear'save together for the Yes' to bring forward these things that we are denouncing, these things that we will do all we can to stop. And that's why we put this whole thing on the table, not because it's disconnected, because it's not; we put this whole thing on the table because we didn't come to the Catalonian Parliament to open the doors to Price Waterhouse, KPMG, Deloitte and all the channels they want to go deeper into a tax system just where the workers are still paying and the big companies, every day, are collated more for our system. We didn't come for that, and that's why we're presenting this whole thing. If during the process we see what I think will be inevitable, then we will position ourselves. When you put these things on the table and you find them with Citizens and the People's Party, then I'll go out and say, "Do you see that? They were right. For the time being, our diems will not open the doors to which they want a more unjust tax system. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.41.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, to fix the positioning and turn it against, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.42.0	Well, I understand, don't I? ; how to build relationships like this, in pieces, with things that we can share but that absolutely enhance them. There are a few phrases that I would like to recall, because there are transcripts of commissions, and someone, one day, criticizing that you entered through the back door, said: "We can find ourselves with a tax code of Catalonia blocked that has positive things; he said that you have positive things. And, of course, the spokesman for your parliamentary group has not even mentioned them. So, we built a report from which it was justified. There's a part of what's been said that they know perfectly well that we share it. They can do all the blood of the world they want, but that's why there's a parliamentary process to debate and why we all try to bring it, too, the best of everyone, because in the background they know that they could have contributed to this and they didn't want to. So from here we're going. And also a few letters. No, we don't; we did say that this has to do with some way and is related to Resolution 1/XI– yes, no problem–, although what is on the table right now is developing some skills that we already have now. Yeah, we take it and we know it. It's the first part, it's coming more, it's nothing... No, we don't have for, Mrs Romero, that you've talked about if we have for; we don't have for it. And, of course, it's about..., or so, they've said because, of course, you see that now everyone is the great valiant and everyone works against privatizations; they're surprised at parliamentary groups that have worked on this for years. If there's the risk, we'll work to avoid it, but if we're not finally approving res here, so we'll work it out. We are willing to work on it and improve everything that is needed to avoid some of the things that have been said. But some people use the same arguments that they already used in July with the Catalonia Social Protection Agency, which are now using it for this... I know, they will use it systemically, but we already told them in July that there was nothing about it with the Catalan Social Protection Agency, and now we can work better to avoid it, obviously. But that's not why they're doing the trick that got here, that it got done, and they're not trying to wear it all out of something it isn't. The problem here is that most parliamentary groups here have not come back and do not want to give support to this law; perfect. I don't want it for other reasons; perfect. But let's hope that tomorrow we can work it out. And that's what someone's talking about, "I'm coming from here, man. And that someone who was willing to rule the Spanish State with the support of Ciutadans tells us that we have to worry because, for a lifetime, in something we coincide – and not too – with the Spiny Lord, man. I believe that neither, according to what lessons; that certainly Ciutadans' fiscal policy does not please us at the CUP, certainly. Well, then, we'll see whether this coincidence of today is real or not; that I think it's not, but that here it seemed like that, but neither if we... or so, neither did he try to dress up with certain things. And finally, Mr Espinosa has said that we are obsessed with disconnection laws and not to improve the conditions of citizenship. It's what, you know? , the way to improve the conditions of citizenship is with the break with the 78th rule and with the Spanish State. This is the only possible way. Breaking with the 78th rule, building of a Catalan republic from a process constitute, participatively, where all that Mr. Albano said, which we have not been able to talk about – it is not true that we have not been able to talk about it; there are those who did not want to talk about it – but we are talking about it in the process constitute. With this I leave it, because, as in the plea for a pact made by the Lord of Ciutadans, we have not heard any questions, because we are not going to Madrid to do anything about it, so I hope that someone else will answer that. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.43.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The words of Mrs Maria Senserrich, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.44.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, members of the government who accompany us, secretaries of Hisenda, Lluís Salvadó, and all his team who have listened attentively, I imagine, to all the interventions that have been made. I'm glad for one thing, huh? They read it in depth. That's okay. They've had a few memories of each other, and they've read it in depth, and there are things that we certainly agree with, other than that. And today they come to us with a few doubts that they have, but already the advance that this is a totality debate, let's start a process, now it's when the work begins, let's say, in commission or poses, but it's true, and reaffirming what the Regunant MP said, is that it was an open pose to all groups. You decided to be there or not. We offered them a few times, and in any case, they could have worked with us. But that's all right, we're still in time and we'll work on it. We, as they said in the initial intervention, are open to better, to better proposals, because we know that everything is better, because in the end nobody has the absolute truth of things. Citizens, you've said that doing it for the sake of the law seems to do it in this way that's not right. It is a right of Members and Members – as you also have the right – to present proposals for the law. I have the same right, give support to the government or not. So, this, I don't think I can discuss respect for myself... our job is the same, in this sense, and now, when the process opens, we can talk, we can debate and improve those things that I think are better. Therefore, there are also guests, in this process that we are now opening. And when you tell us that you want to change this Spanish law, of the Spanish tax agency, look, giving support to a government of the People's Party, which makes a change of game to the tax of companies at mid-game, so [[some applause]] , look, I don't think they'd get sprung – they didn't get sprung. Because that's cheating and we want an agency and a model and a government that don't cheat. So I know very hard, but they have a lot of work to do; I come from a political party that many years has tried, it hasn't gone away, so we're where we are, that's why we want independence. Miri, to the People's Party; I repeat it, Mr Millo: the Spanish State is the one that has renounced being the State of Catalans. I'm having a hard time. And we do – and I said it in my speech and I don't love it – put the foundations of a state structure, I didn't get a sentence or say anything I shouldn't say. Perhaps I said it in a correct and cordial way? Well, thank you; but I've said it clearly and solemnly in this chamber. And these notices that you've made to us from constitutional courts and... well, tomorrow's a divorce – if I don't remember badly – well, the black Fridays we'll already work on at the Council of Ministers, we'll see that they tell us tomorrow or the week you see, but don't worry that we don't have for it. We did our job at the polls on September 27, 2015. And Catalonia Yes, it's Pot... I'm sorry, the Socialists, I have a whole bunch of things, I'm sorry, and I don't want to leave anyone. Be calm, Mrs Romero; we will talk, debate, see that you have studied very well, which I thank you for, like the other Members. Don't worry, because we're doing our job, we're willing to work. I don't doubt the code format, so I know it's hard, that I doubt it; because precisely what we want to do is right; not like Spanish legislation, that you find that the creation of the tax agency is in the Law of Presuppositions of year 91, in article 103, and then you look for the General Tax Law, but you look for a modification; it's a saying that, Holy Sea of God, it's not near the citizen. And we want an agency that's next to the citizen, a model that's next to the citizen and that doesn't allow it; so, code format. Like the Civil Code, which we already know here, Catalonia; we do not make any invention or anything strange. We simply put order to the situation. And look, the prosecutor's council – because I have a little time and it has raised a lot of doubts – when they say that here there will be big ovens, to define it somehow, huh? Big four. The ple, who will form the ple? With regard to what you say private, or privatized. Four vowels– Article 3.8 – at the Plenary of the Fiscal Council – at the end and –; four vowels with exclusive dedication to the field..., ah, no, forgive – forgive – forgive – the d: "Six vowels representing the professional colleges, entities, associations or collections designated for those who agree to be established on a regular basis, remain more representative to the tax advisors who exercise their functions in Catalonia. Colleges of Economists, sounds? Admin managers, sonas? Are they represented? Don't you? We're talking about this. There's no doubt about it, that's what we're talking about. And here they will not legislate; they will make reports for Parliament, because we, the deputies, also have data, contact the sector; because what we cannot ignore is that practically more than 80_percent of the population requires an administrator or a manager or an auditor or what is left to make his or her statement of income. Because, in the end, they also do a service, and we need to keep in touch with these people. Therefore, there is no doubt that there is no such thing and, in any case, during the parliamentary debate we will let them go, we will talk to them, we will comment on them and we are open to any debate and debate. And that's what we're going to do; work, work, work for this state structure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Alicia Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.46.0	Very short, the president. Mrs. Senserrich, who knows I have respect and affection, this tax code, this law proposal does not see the joint pose that you have made; it does not come from here. And, listen, if you can just look at the log number to see it; don't come from here, just as the agency for social protection didn't come from the joint pose. And besides, our spokesman asked in a committee that the letter is pronounced to respect and confirmed what we do, which does not see from the joint pose. One thing. Two: Listen'm, it's a goal to the totality, and we present our arguments to defend this goal to the totality. The model that you present of tax agency is not what we defend and that is why we defend it. The Fiscal Council. What we say is that if there are six vowels coming from professional colleges, why should they be sorted out? Couldn't we, like at least, give them the view from Parliament, just as we sort from Parliament the four coming from the academic world? Why do the academic worlds come to approve here and not the professional worlds? That's what we give. And finally, at the CUP Parliamentary Group, I understand that you are uncomfortable, because you have chosen an ally with whom you share very few things in tax matters. What I would like – I can't ask them, obviously – is that the process didn't get carried away, and you didn't get the opportunity to change the fiscal policy and the tax system of this country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.47.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.48.0	To make use of Article 85, which... in relation to personal allusions and to our group that do not answer the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.49.0	Personal allusions? I didn't feel it, Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.50.0	Yeah, yeah. If you want, I'll explain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.51.0	Have you been greeted personally?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.52.0	They have raised contradictions between a server and Mr. Albano, which I want to clarify.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.53.0	Well, the contradictions, which are answered by Mr Fachin, who intervened, and the allusions, if they were personal, you could answer them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.54.0	Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. I agreed with Mr. Albano Fachin, who is my companion, logically, to be the one who says so. If you have no objection to complying with Article 85, I do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.55.0	Okay. If you've agreed with your company and agreed with the Rules, you can. It has to be agreed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.56.0	Thank you for organizing our group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.57.0	Whenever I can help, Congressman. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.58.0	Thank you very much, Madam President; we do not doubt that. To see... No, I want to clarify one thing: with the company Eulàlia Reguant, which unites us many things, and especially, I believe, an important coincidence about which is the taxation that is to govern this country, today has tried to raise a problem of contradictions in our group citing my intervention to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. And besides, he tried to contradict me with the intervention, today, of our spokesman, the Albano Fachin company, and he told the Lord, our Albano company, that he did not highlight any of the positive aspects that this law has. And that is not true, that everyone has heard that, with regard to the development of the tax agency, and especially with regard to the institute, we agree. So, I want to make this clear. And above all, to say one thing: one can outline laws that approve a government; what is more difficult is that it is not about the laws that one presents; it takes that they have not been written, but that they have been written by others under the direction of Pricewaterhouse and Deloitte. I'm sorry, but someone had to tell you. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.59.0	Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.60.0	In contradiction, Mr. President. Short...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.61.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.62.0	Yeah. In relation to a statement made by Mrs Senserrich, in relation to my intervention, where she said that no, that they were not aggravating anything, that they had said things by their name, right? And I just want to say the following: this text that we have discussed today and that we are now voting not up to this chamber or like the draft government law, although it is his will, nor as proposed by the law of the joint petition, because it is not so that it is contained in the Registry, but above as proposed by the law of two groups. That is to say, assuming the authentic will that is behind it, that is to avoid legislation and avoid the Constitutional Court. That's called cheating and cheating on people. [[The Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History asked to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.63.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.64.0	For allusions, if you can be. Yeah? There have been various...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.65.0	It could be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.66.0	Yeah? I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.67.0	Yes, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.68.0	There have been various references to various spokespersons from parliamentary groups. They will forgive me, however, that I only refer to one of the spokespersons; only one, which is Mr Millo; thank him very sincerely that he has dedicated to us qualifications as "intelligent, " skilled, " good work... We are not used to it and today that he has done it I want to sincerely thank him. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.69.0	Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.70.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.71.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.72.0	Look, Mr. Coscubila, humility is a virtue and a merit. And so, assuming that things with more people and with more debate can get better, I think it's a merit and it's not an attack. So, it's no concern, paternalism doesn't mean that you spend it with us, nor with me. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.73.0	Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.74.0	Yes, as the Rules establish, the intervention of a member of the government to come back. And, therefore, in relation to the kind words given to me by the Vice-President of the Government, I would just like to say to him that 'intelligent','many and well done work are all elements that have a common denominator, which is that to cheat one must know. And that's what the government of the generality does today. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.75.0	Okay. We shall now proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The total was rejected by 60 votes in favour and 69 against. [[Some applause.]] And, since it has been rejected, the proposed law of the Tax Code of Catalonia and the approval of the first, second and third books, relating to the Tax Administration of the Government of Catalonia, continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the audience and plurality of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation's programming]] [[302-00072/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the audience and plurality of the programming of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. David Pérez. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence so that they can continue with the session. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.76.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Ladies and gentlemen deputies, councillor, councillor, let's go back...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.77.0	Please – please – for a moment, Member. I'd appreciate it if you kept quiet. [[Pause.]] When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.78.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. We presented this motion based on the questions we raised the other day in the debate we did in this very Parliament. And in this sense the first thing I wanted to thank is the effort made by the companies: Hope García, of the People's Party, from the first moment of attention to the content of the motion and to its development; Albert Botran, who has presented papers, I would say, with all the logic of the world– is to say, when we analyze plurality we see all the plurality of all the television channels–; Fernando de Páramo, with whom we are also maintaining a very important work; with Jordi and Sergi Sabria, and with Jessica Albiach and with Marta Rovira, that, which we have tried at all times [[Funnel veils]] – Marta Ribas, forgive me – is to try to reach a minimum agreement and, therefore, to make motions that can please everyone. I don't know if I've gotten out of the hundred percent, I think I'm not, but, well, in any case, I've made the effort, and I think it's worth the final result, of many transactions, of many agreements, of many past, but it's worth it. Because, look, at this point, on the issue of the program contract, despite the fact that Councilman Homs said that one week ago, the hottest thing is in the water. And the other day we did a debate in the parliamentary committee, and the president of the corporation said that, well, that this wasn't going with her, that in this the government and Parliament will already agree. We demand, once and for all, the compliment of this program contract, because the assumption of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, at this time, is a assumption that should be greater. And, therefore, this program contract would be, once and for all, to donate a financial and a financial internship to the workers of the Catalan corporation. What is happening at this time is that day, day, too, from the Catalan corporation we have to go to the government to ask for more money. And what does that mean? A total and absolute dependence on our government audiovisual media. We were talking about pluralism, and I believe, once and for all, that we overcome the debate that we are plural because we are leaders, as the Councilwoman Munté has repeatedly repeated in this Parliament, as the members of the Catalan corporate leadership have repeatedly repeated. They have nothing to do with pluralism and hearings – they have nothing to do with it. And the most important thing we have now. I mean, now Telecinco's been leading the audience for a few months. Is it the most plural television, according to its criteria? No, absolutely. But you can't say permanently that plurality and hearing go hand in hand, because that's not true. There are other elements involved in the hearing, such as football. And what we do today is that if we want to win an audience, as we're doing at this point, it's true that it would be worth it if we were to be a little more plural. And the third element – and it is in this sense that the motion too – is the whole issue of legislative activity. We make a proposal in this sense, regarding the contract program, in the sense of incorporating the items that have been made so much together for the Yes as Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, and that in the fund that we ask it is, according to the assumptions of 2017, to try finally to end with the drafting of this contract program, which should lead the president of the Catalan corporation, before the year 2016, as proposed by Catalonia Yes that it is Pot. As far as plurality is concerned, we speak that it is worth it, but in fact we come to an agreement between all the parliamentary groups that need plurality of voices, need plurality of women. And it is also necessary to establish it, to start a debate on the incorporation of new plurality mechanisms, as proposed by Junts for the Yes, to precisely analyze it. And lastly, on the subject of legislative activity, we have come to an agreement, which is not really unanimous, but it could ultimately be, to create a parliamentary debate through a joint debate of the three laws that you are living at this time, with a certain calendar, which would be the one that proposes our critical conscience on all these themes, which are the Jessica and the Marta, to schedule this in the first half of the year that you see. I think we can do all this, I think all this is possible. And finally I appreciate the effort, therefore, of all the spokespersons on these themes, and also the effort of the technical services of Parliament, which have helped us to place some technical elements in this text. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.79.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to defend the emena presented on behalf of Ciutadans, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.80.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Catalonia's public media – said David Pérez earlier – are reaping the worst audience results in history, and that's something that hurts us, it hurts us because we want to have the best public media in Spain. There are many examples of situations that are starting to be embarrassing: changing the flag of our Olympic athletes; characters who belong to the ANC in TV3 fiction series; erasing the abdominals of footballers; correcting the tweet spelling of President Puigdemont; that the President of the Generalitat comes out twice in May as all opposition leaders together; that Mr. Otegui has gone out the same number of times as Mrs. Inés Arrimadas. And then there is a point that is bleeding, and that is that you did not issue the debate that took place in the last general elections. And I say «bleeding because the most serious thing is not that the debate was not broadcast – by the way, record audience in Catalonia – but the most serious thing was that either you, Mrs Munté, or Mrs Llorach lied, one of the two lied. Because Mrs Llorach told us that it had not been broadcast because it was already broadcast on other channels, as if Formula 1 or football were not broadcast also on other channels as on TV3; but, in the end, that was her argument. And then you told us that it was not broadcast because there were no Catalan parties represented, as if Mr Albert Rivera was Chinese or Austro-Hungarian and did not participate in that debate representing a party of Catalan origin; by the way, the one who has the most deputies in the Congress of Deputies. And we are concerned that they deceive us, because, that you deceive as you deceive Catalan society every day with these debates, saying that plurality exists in Catalonia..., we are concerned that they also deceive us in the parliamentary seat. And you also made the excuse that it was not included in the campaign planning, which is why the debate was not issued. But it was not contemplated in the campaign planning of any chain, because, as you know, the debate was decided with the campaign started; I can tell you in the first person, that I was negotiating with Mr Moragas, with Mrs Montero and with Mr Oscar López, the debate at the Television Academy with journalist Campo Vidal, and that happened with the campaign already started. Therefore, the excuse that TV3 was not supposed to broadcast the debate is false. So, I want to take advantage of this motion too to make it clear that..., and I hope you rectify and clarify why you lied. Either you or Mrs. Llorach, one of the two lies. But for issues such as these it is very important that debates of plurality be held, because we are seeing by that series of examples – I have drawn the most comical ones, but at the same time they are regrettable –...... that we live every day in the media of Catalonia. You want – we have seen it these days – your own estate, you also want your judges and now you also want your media. We are not going to allow it, from the opposition. And with regard to the content of the motion, well, we will vote in favour of the content of the motion, and also congratulate Deputy David Pérez on the work he has done, which has been hard, trying to negotiate and deal with all the groups. There are two points, in particular, with which it is going to be very difficult for us to reach an agreement and we will vote that no, which are points 2 and 3, because they say that we have to..., use the gerund, and, when you use the gerund in matters where it is not being done, we will have to vote against it. That is, when one uses ‘continue' it means that it is being done and that one has to continue doing it, and when one uses‘continue' it means that one is pretending. And we believe that no, that plurality is not being done in Catalonia, and therefore we cannot vote in favour of these two points. That we were in favour of the original content of the motion, but with the amendment by Mr Cuminal and his group we cannot agree, because we believe that plurality in Catalonia is not being defended. And, therefore, I would also ask the PSC to reflect on this, because we believe that..., we agree on many issues, especially on matters of the body, and that in that, then, I am sure that we will be able to do so in the future. Then there is another aspect, point 7.b, in which we do agree that a joint presentation is being discussed, but we do not agree that those amendments to the law should be unified, which, as you know, are pending. By the way, pending the amendment of citizens' law regarding the corporation, let us hope that as soon as we can move forward, because they know that they are late on many issues, such as the renewal of posts, which is a very important issue, which I already know you do not like, because it means losing some of your positions in the corporation, but that many workers so manifest it to us and that this parliamentary group also defends it. Therefore, as I say to you, even if you are permanently obsessed with making Catalonia's own structures, we will not allow you to allow the media that are public, that are of all, that we pay all Catalans, and where we all want to feel represented, to end up also being their media and not the media of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.81.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.82.0	Well, good morning to everyone. The first thing we want to do is to thank Deputy David Pérez for the presentation of this young man, who seems to be very complete and who we think complements very well the motion for a resolution that we approved unanimously, which was from Catalonia.Yes, it is Pot, last week, fifteen days ago, in the General Policy Plenary. So, I think it's a good pack, the young lady, on one side, and the motion for a resolution, on the other. With this motion and with this motion for a resolution that I have commented on, we basically get three things. The first: it seems that we will achieve the financial stability of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, that each time we have seen that it has a lower assumption, and its professionals, also, a more precarious working conditions. In this sense, we believe the approval of a program contract, which has lapsed from years ago, and, moreover, I would like to remind you that since 2013 we have had a program contract scrap that is in a state, that is dead laughing and that should have been served for the period 2014-2017. So it looks like, by the way, we'll have a program contract that you'll see the light before the year's over. The other day – Mr Pérez has already commented – the corporate president, Mrs Llorach, told us that she was at the government's disposal to launch the programme contract. Clearly, the issue is that it is not that she should be at the disposal, the issue is that she should lead and act as the president in the functions of the corporation and not as a member of the Generality, which seems to be what has been done so far by some members of the governing council of the corporation. The second thing we achieve with this motion and with the motion for a resolution would be to establish objective criteria for determining the presence or absence of plurality in corporate media. Next, plurality is not subjective, it is objective and, moreover, it is measurable. Therefore, it is possible to do so. And it does not only refer to the political line – which also – but it has much to do with the presence of alternative voices, of experts, of contents and, obviously, of genera. We're finding ourselves in third parties, on TV3, in prime time, on which, of the six people who participate, the only woman is the hostess. But this is not only the Merli series, but also the only content that we have now oriented to the youth audience is the Merli series, and it is also transmitting more than questionable values – Congresswoman Marta Ribas denounced it the other day – well, it is transmitting basically masculist and patriarchal stereotypes. Therefore, it counts on the values that we transmit and it plans to complete the public media betting. And the third thing we get with these two initiatives would be the renewal of the governing council and the approval of a new law of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. For what makes the renewal of the members, it should be remembered that of the six that are now themselves, three have their mandate expired since a year and a half ago, and now, well, by the way, the other day at the control session we knew that they would choose each other through draw. Welcome to continue, because we don't understand this opacity for what you do to the corporate internal rules. To the proposal for a resolution of the general policy debate we approved that it should be done before the end of the first half of 2017, we have or do not have the new law. But, besides, it now seems that, with the transaction that has taken place together for the Yes with the PSC, we will process it as a joint submission. We like this formula if it is to achieve a law that has the maximum possible consent of all the forces of this chamber, but it is certain that this cannot be used to delay the processing of this new law. Therefore, we will be very careful to complete a set calendar and, before the end of the first half of 2017, have the new law of the audiovisual. And, no more, say that we will vote in favour of all the points of this motion and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.83.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Lord Jordi Cuminal, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.84.0	Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Mr. David Pérez, who seems to want the Catalan corporation to be present in all the debates of ordinary plenary of this legislature... First of all, he asks for an apology for the whole picture, but it seems to me that, for what I have been talking about, who else begins to notice the effects of the late, as at least at the time of being able to speak. I'm sorry, because I'm sitting there myself, snoring. So, I'm gonna try to get a little bit of a grit. Give the welcome and well found again. Now, let's say, there, the usual suspicious, we're getting to know each other, which is... that this is one of the things that's fine: and it allows us to discover people from other parties with whom we have more things in common than we might think, and that's fine. But tell them you're saying well, why do you have to have a fever in October, in plenary session, huh? On the sidelines of all the debates that are taking place once a month at the corporate control session, we've had two debates. On the sidelines of the monthly debate that is done to the committee, we've had two debates in full, huh? Anyway... And then we say: "And why have these debates been served? That is to say, we asked questions about plurality, interpellations, motions, fever, March... In April there was an appearance by the ACC, which I think was important and then I will refer to; basically I said that we were... that the corporation was the most analyzed audiovisual in Europe, and I also said that it was of the most plural. April. In the same April, an inquiry by the People's Party, which said that there was no plurality, etc. To the maig a proposal of the law of Ciutadans, that before made reference. In July a call from the PSC. In July a question to the Government. October, the general policy debate, with a resolution. And today there's a S.C.P. motion. From February to October every month we have presented the corporation, with a mantra, because, more than that, it is there to say and what have we granted? Why do we need this? Because they see some interventions, some today I think with the most construction... but some take advantage of the opportunity to try to wear down, as we see it, to try to wear down the prestige of corporate media, but on the other hand, when we talked about concrete proposals, we agreed, as it was said, that we were always unanimous. And so, here I think this... it's a good fight, I'd just miss it, but this intensity of debate that didn't take advantage of to get it done just to wear out was a point of criticism that I wanted to put on a manifesto. Why, what's the reason we're here today? Say that we must complete the motion we approved on March and that we must complete what we agreed to the general policy debate fifteen days ago. I say, "What's new? From the start, I didn't say anything new. There's one. And I appreciate the opportunity that has come to a deal, that is to say a Junts question for the Yes that went into the land line of a Ciutadans question – that is why they said that they voted against it and..., but it will fall – that they say that we are no longer talking and that we have to work, that we group together the three legislative initiatives, the Ciutadans, the PSC and Catalonia Yes, it is possible, to make a parliamentary debate and, at the end of the day, to extend it in terms, etc., to give compliment to what we carry from the month of fever to say that it would be appropriate for us to do so. Therefore, unify the legislative initiative of the different groups into a single question and move forward to solve what some see as problems; in our case we believe that it is to prove that it will cost them a lot, what they have gone on today, to bring it to the facts to prove that it is true. We've dealt with the PSC, with Catalonia, yes, it's Pot. It is a pity that Ciutadans instead of saying: "Together the three legislative initiatives in one, they tend to stay in their own. I'm having a hard time. As I said, we're getting to know each other more personally about the debates, and there's nothing personal about it, but it confirms my thesis to me, and it's that you were founded to attack the values for which the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation was founded. And besides, if I may advertise, I have published it, and you have not forgotten it. It could be the theory of communication that says: "We don't answer them, so we don't make it big and we don't talk about it very well; it could also be the theory of the girl phrases of the people, who sometimes say who's quiet because they give the reason. There's a lot of seconds left. Just say..., and with the will to unify, and I don't know if the person in charge of the motion would agree or not, when we have asked to "continue doing, we don't have a problem if we want to accept a statement or a transaction in voice, huh? , say: "Listen, perhaps there are more things to do. And if you say to continue saying that you are voting against it, we accept that neither are you doing anything, and between "we are not doing anything and "we are already doing everything, you would surely have said to intensify what is being done, and if it is detected that more can be done to promote plurality, the presence of men and women, etc., we agree, because this is the will at the time to agree on what we are going to do. And how do I see that I'm running out of time, just putting an accent on the fact that there are a couple of technical aspects, huh? – one thing that the government was faced with when it was a job to do Parliament and something more than that – that I kept in mind that we can fix it, that there will be no problem at the time of voting. And we've had a lot of debates – and I'm done, Madam President – and after these debates, where are we? So, to what I was saying to the beginning, with a report from the ACC that says...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.85.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.86.0	... – I finish – that the corporation is the most plural, and we end up feeling leaders in September; where we started and where we are now: the most plural and the leaders. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.88.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, for our part announce that we will give support, therefore, to a good part of the young man. I'm not going to be where it's obvious I'm creating enough consensus, am I? : the need for a new program contract; the need to address the governance of the corporation through, therefore, talking about a new law, and therefore to ensure that we respond to the debate that we repeatedly have in its parliament, but also to the negations of the professionals of communication and, ultimately, to the fact that we have to do the best public media in front of the assembly of the Catalan society. Yes, I will be a little more in the aspect of plurality, which, in fact, is gathering enough time from the inquiry that gave place to this young man, on behalf of the PSC, and with which, therefore, we maintain some differences that we have expressed through the formulation of two points, which seemed initially, on behalf of Congressman Pérez, that could be incorporated, at last they have not been. We have to say that in the strict writing of the young man, therefore, we can do nothing but agree, can we? Because plurality is always better and many dimensions are pointed out in which we are especially sensitive: genera plurality, territorial plurality... – so I had the opportunity to meet with entities from Northern Catalonia that plant that TV3 and corporate emitters could incorporate more information content from those regions, and thus, want to be potentially a reference television for the half a million people that he saw in those areas – therefore, genera plurality, territorial plurality, and social class plurality. Also in an analysis that was made in 2013 about who participates in the third parties was seen a clearly biax of a profile, therefore, of man between forty and sixty years, of social class relatively benevolent, pertaining to the journalistic or cultural elites of Barcelona, primarily, right? Therefore, this would also require plurality. What's wrong with that? That if we really care about plurality we cannot focus only on Television of Catalonia and Catalonia Radio. To this, in this direction, we used to do the things we did. The move we make to the Catalan Audiovisual Council is because we can assess the plurality that exists in all media that issue to our country, public and private, Spanish or strictly Catalan, right? ; for example, therefore, Spanish Television, which at the level of information has many shortcomings. You yourself, Mr. Pérez, participated in a last day concentration that the Spanish Television Television said there were 1_million people. I don't know if he got there, do I? ; you may be able to say it more precisely. Focusing on the subject of tertulias, Spanish Television, for example, has some characters like Tertulians who let enough to wish, like Mr. Alfonso Rojo, now in quarantine after being sentenced to say "mangant and" chorizo to Pablo Iglesias, but let us say that it would be appropriate to evaluate the plurality and dignity offered in these spaces, also political opinion, right? For us, for those who analyse tertules, we cannot be against it; we must do so from the point of view of scepticism. For two motius. In the first place, because labelling, therefore, Tertullians is not a mechanical thing that can be done, like the detail that is done in the report of political pluralism; it is a journalistic work of analysis of the speech, it is more elaborate, it should be subject by subject. And since we're talking about theme by theme, it's obviously the theme that generates the most complaints of lack of plurality of the Catalan public media, which is the independence process..., yes they have dealt with it, the pes que tes en les tertúles, so, some organisms, some plataformes, as was the case with Contrastant, as was the case with Media. Cat, as was the case with the Rights Collection, which made the Information Pluralism Report on the occasion of the September 27th campaign. And we'd go through some data, which could be analyzed if this guy's task was to analyze all the media, right? For example, Telecinco, which has been mentioned, hearing leader in a few months, on the morning program, right? , to Ana Rosa's program: non-independence Tertulians, came; independent Tertulians, zero. The morning one's a little more balanced, isn't it? Or the Sixth Night, which is a program that is to be recognized as a virtue, which is to place the political debate in prime-time time, isn't it? But on the 6th night, on the 27th of September, on the vigils, to the political tertules that he did with Catalan political representatives, some of whom here present, the spectators of the 6th night were lucky to hear seven representatives of parties that defend the unit of the Spanish State – legitimately – four representatives of the right to decide, but not of independence, zero independenceists. That's plurality. And if we really care about plurality, let's approach it in all the media that emit to Catalonia and that believe in Catalonia's opinion. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's in this sense that we've done this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.89.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.90.0	... she wondered, why the Audiovisual Council could incorporate this task into its reports of political pluralism. It's a taboo – it's a taboo – addressing the plurality of private television...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.91.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.92.0	...but I think we're all interested, starting with the PSC, that I don't know if he's very happy with the role that the Pisa Group has played in all its internal crisis. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.93.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. In order to fix its position, Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.94.0	Well, thank you, President. You see, today we are here for a young man who wants to improve the pluralism and governance system of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, which seems that some are oblivious to the content of this young man. I already know that the companies of the CUP would want to nationalize Antena 3, Telecinco and La Sixth, but at the moment they are still private; this as a reminder. And then also the reminder that it is: to sign off from the journalists' rostrum [[some applause]] It does not seem very respectful of the freedom of exercise of the profession. That said, Catalonia's public communication media have become a thematic channel of hate to Spanish is a reality that takes too much time and too many years to the reality of Catalan politics and communication. What's in the service of independence is a reality, even though Mr. Cuminal denies it and denies it, and then deals a piece with Mr. David Pérez. To say that since the start of the legislature it is not by chance that it is produced and reproduced this debate, neither in this plenary, nor in the committee, nor that it is asking the government; it is normal, and it is normal because you, from the government, have closed the last day to recognize that our public communication media in Catalonia have a sloppy look, do not comply with the law, are not politically neutral and have become a long time ago in a way for the cause and the process. Remember that these media at the end pay all the citizens of Catalonia, both those who go to the demonstrations of the 11th and those who go to the party of the 12th of October or those who simply decide to live their feelings of identity in privacy, and this seems like you have forgotten it. That the public communication media in Catalonia have, in the end, made its religion process is not surprising, and it is not surprising because it has been doing so for many years. It was about the audience, and from the governance and presidency it was always denied that the fact that the Catalan public communication media was instrumental in independence was lied to because there were good audience data. And look, the alibi was over, it wasn't true, it wasn't true that "audience and pluralism were synonymous or attached to the hand. Right now the public communication media in Catalonia have very low audience fees; it's in front of Telecinco, it's in front, it's in front, it's in front, it's also in antenna 3. Now it seems like he's replayed a little – don't tell me no, Mr. Cuminal – but the reality is that he's downed the audience, he's downed the recap on publicity issues too, and that's a lot to see not only with the quality of the program and the graella, but also with the totally sloppy look and the instrumentalization of these communication media. With which, if the hearing data does not serve them as an alibi..., the reality is that we find ourselves with a television that since 2001 – for this reason I say to the « great time–, since 2001_has lost a 43_percent audience, and this is a given – and this is a given – that has to be taken into account not to destroy, as you say or accuse other parliamentary groups, Mr. Cuminal, but to improve it. And this young man is an opportunity. It has to be said that before the holidays, the interruption of the plenary sessions and the committees of this Parliament, there has been a lot of chance, right? , let's say, in these communication media. Some have already identified themselves, or continue to, to change and delete the selections with Mr Belmonte and Mr Rodríguez; a series has been made to the youth public such as Merli with messages for the ANC; she has shouted from Catalonia Radio to violence and incitement to prevent a trial of Mr Rigau or Mas; she has been enriched in class: a question to Catalonia Radio, « maquíssima, que que que que los castellers de la festivity de 12 octubre étre uns'équelos; se has made, also, correction de les faultes orthográfices de la Twitter de Senor Puigdemont, y desitá molto relà la Senor Forcade alte, pas de un party de fuço, en el procébol. And that's the reality. We, too, and with the thought that you have dealt with the Socialist Party, will give a vote on behalf of this young man, not all of us, because this "continuing, Mr. Pérez, has not just convinced us, but I do want to thank, especially David Pérez, his predisposition and his good intention to improve, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, the quality of our public media. To tell them, too, that there is a reality that as much as they deny it – as much as they deny it – there are even ex-directors – ex-directors – of TV3 who say and make the following statement: "I see Cubavision and it is no worse than TV3. Let's do it, let's work to make it better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr. David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to turn back the question in voice raised by Cuminal, which we had already commented on, and hope that Fernando de Páramo will be fine with it: "Intensify the measures and the criteria that are being taken and, if necessary, add to it from us. I think this is a good element, if Fernando de Páramo agrees, I think I would also give Mrs. Esperanza García satisfaction, I think it is a theme that can be this point of finding among all. Let me just talk about two questions. One, first, is true: in this Parliament, it speaks a lot about corporate issues, it is true. That's right. Something's got to be, isn't it? You say: "Let us not go forward. Yes, go ahead. Today we will approve a point, in plurality, that I presented a year ago and voted against it. And today we will approve it, with a Junts message for the Yes, but today, by the way, we will approve this point. Home, we've advanced, Cuminal, we've advanced. With the minimum, pull forward; clear, with the minimum, pull forward. I think it's worth taking steps in a certain direction and finding points of consensus, as you very well wish. It's worth it, as you very well said, it's worth it, for this country, it's worth it for our public communication media. Mr. Botran, public. I would also like to control what private media say, but it is not the work of this Parliament, it is not at all. Our job is to monitor what public communication media, media from the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation do. This is our job and this is what we have to do: watch them at all. For example, in parity; for example, in territories, eh? , I recall an intervention by Marta Camps complaining that, "man, every time the territories come out is just to talk about trickling facts. I was right. I mean, we're talking a little territory, too, and that's what's happening. And also speak of political plurality; it can be done calmly. And it is in this sense that the papers and transactions that we have presented are already announced. And I end up, once more, thanking the experiment demonstrated for all the spokespersons and, especially, for the people with whom we have finally reached a compromise, let's say, three bands, on the legislative issue, that I personally find ultrarelevant. I told you, I told you, didn't I? – I have here, at this point in my hand, the request – certainly, already signed by a member – for the creation of the joint pose. We already have her here. If there really is this compromise to get it out of the way, that I don't doubt it, we sign this proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.97.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.98.0	...and let's start a debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.99.0	...exhausted a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.100.0	Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.101.0	...it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.102.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.103.0	Thank you. Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] No... no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.104.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.105.0	Forward, thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.106.0	I'll wait for Mr. Cuminal to get into your bait. No, I was saying, by allusions, because I see you very concerned about the origins of Citizens, when we want to talk about the origins of Convergence, of 3 percent, of Mr Pujol and all that, when we want to talk about this too. And I tell him why Citizens-Ciutadans of Catalonia was born: he was born, among other things to defend the plurality of the public media. We have already seen that you don't like us talking about the public media, but you get used to it, because the opposition leaders are no longer sitting next to the President of the Generalitat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.107.0	Mr. Botran, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.108.0	To ask for separate votes from points 2 and 6, and for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.109.0	Out of contradiction, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.110.0	As you can see, we have not talked about the nationalization of private media, what we have talked about is the same thing that the Catalan Audiovisual Council was talking about in the report that 2001 gave place to the birth of the report of political pluralism where, among other things, it was said that, at times, the analysis of the totality of public media would be fucked up if you did not introduce, as a contrast stone, the practices existing in private media. Because, indeed, as it has often been said, press freedom is the freedom of press love.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.111.0	We're calling it a vote. Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.112.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 7.b, from « Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.113.0	Set b. I have been asked to vote separately from points 2, 3, 6 and 7.b. All groups agree? [[Widow's remorse.]] So, if it looks like it, we'll take a separate vote from these four points and then vote on the rest of the motion. Does it look like it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.114.0	They can't vote together. I don't know who asked for a separate vote on points 2 and 3, but points 2, 3 and 7.b must be voted on separately, which is what Ciutadans asked for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.115.0	Yeah, yeah, we'll all vote separately. First, we will vote..., which I said first we will vote, not together, but first we will vote these four points separately and then the rest of the motion. Okay? So now we're voting point number two. Okay? The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 121 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 121 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote point 7.b. The vote begins. Point 7.b_has been approved by 107 votes to 23, with no abstentions. And then we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the audience and plurality of the programming of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and against. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into Catalan communities abroad]] [[302-00073/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government about the Catalan communities abroad, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose it has the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please leave in a hurry and be quiet so we can continue with the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.116.0	Well, good morning. First of all, send a giant hug to the people who are now at the Secretary of Universities – I suppose accompanying anti-disturbing, yet – who protest over the petition of more than eleven years of prison that weighs on teachers, PAS staff and students of the Autonomous University in an occupation of the Rectorate in which some of us here were also there. And, therefore, let us hope, therefore, that we will not regret one more time burden or injury. If you've got the inside counselor here, I'd like to stare him in the eye and tell him that he doesn't dare touch them or a hair at the people who are there right now. [[Some applause.]] One time said this, before the "vacation, between comets, to hear us, we presented this inquiry, therefore, about all the people who reside outside the Principality. We've brought in figures to try to ask..., somehow, to radiograph this reality of people who have had to leave the country, who live abroad and who have very concrete requests; on their part, I think that you share for everyone, with the good, therefore, that we agree in whom are the needs that are held when they are seen outside the country. Therefore, since last July we have progressed in some things; other things, therefore, may remain pending. And the young lady, so, they want a little bit of this, don't they? : to present a series of needs, a series of proposals..., some of them, I insist, already planned, but that, in any case, if the function of the young person is to contribute to its execution and not just to remain in the forecast, so, a little we give ourselves for satisfaction. In the first place, too, we must say that we must thank the people of the CUP outside who have been working all these questions. Therefore, there are questions that we pose on the table not from people who fortunately we have never had to leave the country forcefully, but from people who really do see outside and, therefore, they are the ones who have brought us all and each of the points of the motions, and they are also the same people who have positioned themselves in relation to the points that different groups have presented and that have given us their opinion. I believe that – and to a great extent, therefore – we will activate coordination mechanisms with these Catalan communities abroad, and this will be positive, because we recognize that they have an obvious role to play in the gathering of people to emigrate. We take the place of having a day here, in Parliament, on the migration of Catalonia. That I think it can be a good opportunity to delve deeper into some aspects, that I think that in this young man, by means of papers, they tried to incorporate, maybe in a way I don't know if partial, but that in any case, they can approach more fully if we have the opportunity to celebrate this day. We also raise questions about the electronic vote. We agree that what the Spanish State is doing with people living abroad in the field of democratic rights is absolutely alarming. That is to say, the fact that the mechanism of the petitioned vote exists that effectively and effectively prevents many people from exercising the right to vote should be a primary concern for which democracy is repeatedly put in the mouth. We want to deepen – we have a mechanism to deepen there, so – in the dissemination of the register of persons residing abroad. We also intend, therefore, that entities representing these people, which are obviously plural, therefore, have a view in different procedures, and make a petition directly to the Department of Health. Therefore, I believe that it is a young man not only raised from the reality of those who live abroad, but it is a very small man– neither do they want to change everything, in this case–; that it is used in some questions to future deployments that will have to come through law or regulations. And it's obvious, he said, that he's a very small young man and that he doesn't get what we, already in his time, in July, say should be the main objective of any country, of whatever it is intended to represent citizenship, that is to settle the conditions, to generate the structure that you don't have to leave your country if you don't decide to do it freely. Therefore, the opposite, beyond this young man, is actually to draw a country in which no one is obliged to emigrate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.117.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.118.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, people who accompany us from the public, the first thing I want to do is to please the arrangement of the CUP Group - Constituent Creed, which proposes to us this motion, to agree on some of the issues that we have presented to us. In fact, we had presented so many two items, in one of the subparts that I counted the young man. We believe that presenting, let us say, two cares of the same coin, that it is the fact, that it has been produced with greater intensity in the years of the crisis, from the migration of many people – young and not so young – from Catalonia to other indwellings of Europe, so as to seek there, let us say, a future better than what they can find here, depending on their expectations. In fact, all migration flows were always much more than that, a contrasting place between expectations than supposed effects of more or less foreign legislation, huh? And I already know that I'm talking about an area that is in Europe, basically, but I'm also talking about other debates that are about the migratory phenomenon. We've already raised two questions. One, a specific programme aimed at encouraging the return of young emigrants. This has been the theme that the CUP has decided to incorporate. And another one that talked about a series of programs to try to fix here not only talent, but, in general, fix here young people, who have opportunities, after their format cycle, to find a first occupation or some paid practices that can give them access to the labor market, to the world of work. That's what we meant. I understand the reasons for which the CUP has decided that a theme, perhaps, too specific for the general character of the motion, so it might be worth taking it back to other places of debate. We had done this: it had been laid here in the monogram of youth of the last legislature, and it has been laid repeatedly, and we will have occasion to return there. So, it's all right, we're not particularly concerned, we'll be on board by now. I have to say that our group has found points of coincidence with the motion. That is why we will vote in favour of several of your points. In fact, except for the third point, which we shall abstain, and the fifth and sixth point, the rest we shall vote in favour. It seems good to us to encourage the role of the representative entities of Catalans abroad in everything that affects them in the background; it seems good to strengthen the role of the Government of Catalonia in supporting people who live abroad in the most diverse spheres – also in educational spheres – as it does in some of the points of the young person. But I make a special point, before we run out of time, at the points with which we maintain some discrepancy. With regard to the third point, which is the reference to the law for the implementation of the electronic vote for Catalans residing abroad, we shall abstain. Not because we're not in favour of this. In fact, our group, and other groups too, have raised, in their opinion of the question of the electoral law, the electronic vote not only for the people residing abroad, but also for the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans, the residents in Catalonia, as other countries around us have been implementing it for a long time, and it seems that without much technical problems, let's say. That's why we think this should go back to the work of the election law. We are not in favour of speculating the electoral law in an electoral union law, a law on electronic voting and then, perhaps, other aspects of the law. We consider... – and we know that consensus around these questions is very difficult–, we consider that, as it is electoral matter, it should be dealt with in conjunction and, moreover, it should extend 'to the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans. With respect to the fifth and sixth point, you can agree with some of the appreciations you make, which we can't assume is the report of an object we don't share, which is the question of the reference, etc. Therefore, simply because of this, we will not vote in favour of it, we will vote against these two points. Even though we think it is good that there is a register of Catalans and Catalans living abroad that is more successful than it was at the time of obtaining Catalan and Catalan inscriptions living outside Catalonia, because if we want the Generalitat to provide a series of services and is related in a way, let's just say, directly to these people, it's good to count on this tool, because, if not, it's certainly difficult. Another thing would be what is counted in the point number 6 on Catalans, the born in Catalonia, residents in other rights of the State [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Because that would be a debate I see I don't have time to do, but it would be interesting. For example, why are we now concerned about this in the face of a referendum, and we have not been concerned that we cannot vote in local elections to their native municipalities or in elections to the Catalonian Parliament, etc., are we not? It is a consideration that we will surely have to do when this debate is brought here to Parliament. We'll have a chance to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.120.0	Thank you, President. Well, it's clear we're ahead of a necessary debate. In the later years more and more, especially as a result of the economic crisis, more Catalans and more Catalans have been forced to leave Catalonia, basically to find work and to work on the world, on Europe and on the world. I won't repeat the ciphers, but they're scandalous. I'm already serious about talking about an Estonian, respecting the repercussions of the economic crisis and the responsibilities in this crisis. And that, only those families who have a child, a daughter, a friend, a friend who is serving coffee in London, can truly say... what I'm talking about. But, well, I said that – and depending on the proposal that the UPC brings us today – we have to say that this should be the big deal for the next few weeks. We will discuss briefly the proposal made to us by the Government on the law of the Catalan communities abroad. And, therefore, today the CUP motion is a species of appetizer, so let's understand, of a wide debate that we will have, in which we will have to position ourselves, in which we will have to dialogue and, I hope, in which we will have to agree on a whole series of conditions that must be inserted into the law. I, therefore, think that..., said that with the appetizer it is good, today, already, to begin to position us. First idea, as a group, we will defend the social, linguistic and political rights of all Catalans and Catalans, regardless of who lives. Therefore, it must be made clear to the law. And today I think that in this young man there are points, that we will vote in favour of them, that they help us say that these Catalans are not second-rate Catalans, that they are first-rate Catalans, like the ones we live in Catalonia, and they have social, linguistic and political rights. Obviously, one of the most important policies is the right to vote. But also, in linguistics and socials, we have to make a special point, we don't have to leave them behind. Secondly, we look dearly at the proposals made in the past by the International Federation of Catalan Entities abroad. Because we believe that it is a people who are, on the ground, well organized, and who today are one of the best embassies in Catalonia abroad, that it is this organized Catalan civil society that not up there the government..., and know that we have defended an important foreign policy of the Government of the Generality, very important, eh? We don't doubt that, but obviously civil society up on many occasions where the government isn't up. And about the bill, and I'm sure it's about this young man, so there's an opinion on the part of the federation, and we have to listen to him and we have to take him into account. I would also like to make it clear that in this bill we are talking about something as important as electronic voting. And we agree with the electronic vote of Catalans who see it foreign, but the electronic vote needs a regulation and a global view. And the electronic vote should be regulated and should be seen from the point of view of the electoral assembly of Catalans and Catalans; it should be regulated with an electoral law and should affect, I repeat, not only Catalans and Catalans living abroad, from whom we defend their electronic vote, but also, perhaps, from other Catalans and Catalans, and the electronic voting formula, as in other democratic societies, should be regulated and incorporated. Therefore, it is an important issue. And, therefore, yes, we need to talk about electoral law, and the electoral law needs two thirds of this Parliament. And so, when we talk sometimes about things that we have to do, so there must be consensus and agreement; well, consensus, broad agreement, two-thirds– two-thirds is not consensus–, broad agreement to make an electoral law. And, therefore, it would be good that somehow this is very much taken into account. And, therefore, when we want to regulate electoral aspects we need to speak in a very cross-cutting way, and the government is not enough to regulate this issue, and the group that supports the government is not enough; it is indispensable, yes, but there is a need for a broader dialogue. Also say that we in points 3, 5 and 6 will abstain. Why should we abstain? Because we think that there are debates that we have our own opinion and what it would be like to have a broader debate. So, the law of the Catalan communities abroad, the electoral law, but also the same reference. We are talking about a referendum, but we must agree on democratic conditions for its realization. And we, who value the Catalan and Catalan register abroad and who want to develop it to the top... this is one thing and the electoral census is another. And, therefore, this is a debate that we will have, because it forms part of the conditions that we will have, or not, to make a democratic reference, or not, accepted its outcome, or not. And it's such an important thing that we can't, sometimes, settle minimally or insinuate with a young man. So, we abstain, what do you mean...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.121.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.122.0	...that we don't say no, but that we don't say yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.123.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.124.0	I'm done. And finally say that the process constitutes and the elections constitute, the same; it is such an important issue that we need a debate and a very broad agreement of this parliamentary chamber. And as we do, if we do them and who will vote there...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.125.0	He told me it was over...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.126.0	...so we can't solve it now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of Mr. Jordi Sendra, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.128.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday this Parliament experienced a historic day of responsibility. It was an act of justice, of dignity, of reparation and of support to the people, drawings of thousands, who suffered the repression of the dictatorship. Yesterday this Parliament approved the Proposition of Law on the Legal Reparation of the Victims of the Franchise. Many of those thousands of people paid with their lives, many paid with the lives of their peers, seas, husbands, wives, Germans, friends and friends. A lot of people paid in jail, too. Others – thousands, too – paid with exile. Some of them returned to Catalonia, but many of them made their own country, always with Catalonia's enyorança, the country always in color. My house also suffered the discord of having exiled parents who never came home, never came back to Catalonia. Also in the past few years many Catalans and Catalans have decided to undertake a new life, perhaps temporal, perhaps definitive, outside our country. Many have wanted to put their talent in the service of other countries, but many have also had to do so for lack of opportunity in our home. For the Government of Catalonia and for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes all these Catalans, especially those who have left or had to leave in a forced way, grouped in which we call "the Catalan communities abroad", "the external Catalonia, have been, are and must continue to be priority objects of the action of the Government of Catalonia". In this sense, there is already in this Parliament the draft law of the Catalan community of the outside, which will replace Law 18/96 of 27 December. Today, as a result of an inquiry by the CUP Group - Crida Constituent of the Councillor of Foreign Affairs, Raül Romeva, we bring to debate a young man who deals with various topics in relation to this collection, in relation to the external Catalonia. To this motion Together for the Yes we have submitted a series of papers to improve the text, to adapt its content to today's reality, that the bill is already in Parliament and to return some of its resolved points to the debate on the bill that will soon be produced. And we have done and we have spoken, we have made contributions on issues of mobility, from the right of Catalans to the outside to learn Catalan language at all levels of compulsory teaching; on such an important issue as the implementation of the electronic vote – they have not all spoken of the elements and the presenter of the motion; very important, the implementation of the electronic vote to avoid all the passages that the diplomatic machinery of the State poses to those who want to exercise such a fundamental right as the right to vote–; or to encourage the inscription of these citizens, of these Catalans, in the Catalans and Catalans' Register residing outside Catalonia, or in ensuring all the rights of these cities and cities, all the rights. In this sense, our reviews have been either accepted or traded for the proposing group. And that's why I want to thank... in fact, this fact allows us to vote favorably for the motion, and that's why I want to thank the predisposition to reach agreement on this motion of Congresswoman Anna Gabriel. And I have to tell him that again, it was a pleasure to negotiate with you. Finally, I reiterate the explicit will of my parliamentary group and the Government of Catalonia to recognize the rights of all Catalans living far from here to equate them to those of the citizens residing in Catalonia. This is also our job. And I invite the parliamentary groups and all the entities and citizens of outer Catalonia to participate in this debate so important that we can now hold Parliament and do them justice. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen; many thanks, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.129.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. To fix her position, Ms. Susana Beltrán of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.130.0	Thank you, President. Who hasn't been out for a while... doesn't know how important the Catalan communities are to the outside world, do they? Everyone who has spent some time away or who has remained knows the importance of these communities, not only the Catalans, but also of other places, for those young people or not so young that they go out, that they don't know anyone, that many times, therefore, they cheat for a time to learn the language of the country where they have settled. And this gathering function cannot be done either by the embassies, the consulates, or the delegations of the Government of Catalonia – do not stop being administrations. And, on the other hand, these communities are gathering communities, communities that give warmth, communities that allow you, when you're out, to make a link to meet other people who come from the same place as you and, at the same time, so make it easier for you to do a lot of errands that at an embassy, at a consulate or even at the delegation or delegations of the outside gene, so these questions can't be done. In such a way that we, favorably, gather whatever it is, therefore, to give support to these communities abroad. Therefore, we will also vote in favour of the international mobility plans and everything that is coordinated strategy of exit and host of migration to Catalonia because it seems very important to us. And, in fact, we have also put forward some motion for a resolution to include the Catalan communities abroad, because we believe they are making a phone book. Now, this young man doesn't just go from Catalan communities to outside, but also from references and constituent elections. And here's where we have the problem, how I suppose the members of the CUP, then, can they wait, right? The problem is when the Catalan communities are linked to the outside – which we believe must be communities of all citizens – with constituent elections and with the referendum or referendum. And it's a big deal, because there are aspects, there are some articles or some disposition of this motion that we, the founders, agree with; for example, with what it refers to the vote asked for. We at the Congress, so we've presented a pose, haven't we? because we understand that external voting is a problem for all citizens. But, in change, we disagree overtly with the use, so it seems that the Members of the CUP want to do it, don't they? The difference between you, members of the CUP, and us is that we all care about the citizens, and you only care about a few citizens, who are not all the citizens of Catalonia, but only those who are in favour of the separatist process. Therefore, there are some points that we do not vote in favour. And it's that this young man also referred to the reference, and he goes into questions that for us, they're fundamental. We've lived a lot of ourselves, haven't we? , which was the pseudo-referendum of 2014, and they've already put on the table phonemental questions that, supposedly, then, they'll come back in, right? And we are concerned that this is also linked to the Catalan communities abroad, aren't we? , and what can be done with the external vote. I remember, 2014, when this reference was made, right? So there was an American company in advertising and strategy that had to do it very well because I remember some gross, horrible, non-biodegradable plastics, right? , that they were in the schools where our children were studying, that for many of us it was a sad, very sad day, and that of this, therefore, the President of the General when he spoke not with representatives of the State but with representatives of foreign political parties, does not talk about it, nor does Diplomat talk about it - it was very hard. And somehow back to those gross, non-biodegradable, horrible, plastic that might come out again in a possible referendum. In short – I see I don't have time –, register, cents..., are fears that they affect citizens' phonenal rights, it's not a state blockade issue or so, but it's a European Union issue, so it offers a very important protection, and we'll be very careful. And, in short, we want Catalan communities outside of separatist processes, because this can only be the place to gather for all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.131.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.132.0	Well, thank you, President. Before we proceed to the vote on this motion, we would like to know where we came from and why we are now voting on this CUP motion. In principle, Catalan communities abroad were created, therefore, not only to be a meeting place for Catalans who lived and lived abroad, but also to spread, to promote cultural knowledge of what is Catalonia; also as centers of support, guidance, not only as an open house to mitigate melancholy, but as something much more useful than just that, right? This regulation that the houses, the Catalan communities abroad, had already been very detailed in the year 96. And right now this motion almost coincides with a bill that is registered, from the Government, on September 16. I understand that you're very coordinated, Junts for Yes and the CUP, right? , but I did not understand exactly why this motion, which practically reproduces many elements that are in that bill and even advances in some more thing..., why there is that coincidence in time and even in the content of it. And I don't understand it because it is often said that it is important to read only the text, right? But without the context I think I would lose or lack the sense of what we're talking about here. And I believe that the context is very important, because the context in which we are, precisely now, for we are not going to be fooled, it is the acceleration of the process, it is the creation of structures that you call "state", that is, the creation of laws, proposals for laws and illegal instruments and agencies, what you call "state structures, and I believe that alone – for that reason alone – we are not going to be able to support this motion. As, in addition, we have also tabled a comprehensive amendment to that draft law of the Catalan communities abroad for consistency. It is true that the motion has some point and some element that is positive, and it has some proposal, because we understand that it would be very consumable if we were not even in the situation where we were not, nor was there a bill that had already been tabled, still pending, or just finished the amendment procedure. What are the positive things? Well, the return programme, the coordination of guidance services. That's positive, that's undeniable it is, isn't it? But there are too many references that invite you to think that this motion, as well as the draft law, does not give up being almost – almost – an extension of the functions that already carry out not only the Spanish embassies but also the delegations of the Generalitat, what you call « delegations and some we call « pseudo-embassies of the Generalitat. So, if those functions are already being developed normally by the embassies, if the consular offices also do them, but if, moreover, there are houses abroad, Catalans, who also do those functions, why this insistence on regulating one thing that has been working well since the year 96 more or less through a bill and through a motion, to provide it with more budgetary resources, that we will surely see there a part in the next budgets, when you have the right to present them in this chamber, when it has already worked well enough. Well, that's exactly the context we're in. In other words, to try to replace the embassies and trade delegations, or even the consular offices, through the Catalan communities abroad, does not seem to us positive at all. For example, let's give examples of why we believe that what is intended is this, what is sought is this. For example, in the case of guidance services for Catalans. Well, those tasks are already done by the embassies and consular offices. In the case of the teaching of Catalan, of course we want it to be taught, of course we want it to be known, of course we want it to be promoting Catalan culture, of course, of course. But these tasks are already being carried out by couples abroad, are already being carried out by embassies abroad, and, moreover, even the Department d'Ensenyament itself has not found any problem in that, has not taken any initiative with regard to withdrawing that practice which is already usual, which is already consolidated and which seems to be successful, in amending it. I have to make a specific mention with the LOREG theme. Obviously it does not work, it is clear that not only the Catalans, but all the Spanish, and therefore the Catalans as well as the Spanish, consider that the system of voting requested should be improved. And what I'm telling you is that, of course, if the legislature begins at once, there are not only the People's Party but also other political groups – the second largest and it seems to me that some more – who are willing to talk and improve that. Now, trying to do it from here seems a barbarity to us. It improves yes, instrumentalization of Catalan communities abroad, no; and therefore, we have no choice but to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.134.0	Yes; thank you very much. I will begin with the end, to dispel the conspiracy theory that you permanently see the People's Party at all. There must be something they have that they think everyone's doing the same. Just – just – because the CUP outside many months ago was raised this question, we made the presentation of this young man with independence and just not in coordination with the government, huh? I'm telling you because sometimes your predictions aren't accurate. With regard to the intervention of the Socialist Party Group, you have already commented, have you not? , the suitability to accept one item, and to hear that the other could belong to a broader debate, because we made reference to the fact that it is left without the young people who have completed studies of degree, master or higher grade. We understand that we need to be able to want to be left alone, regardless of whether you're studying or not. So we'll sit back and discuss it, if they get out. Also, in relation to Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and so does the Socialist Party: the question of electoral law, and therefore, to link some questions to the debate of the electoral law. If we get to open the door, if we get to these two thirds and have the opportunity to introduce everything that I want to see with the electronic vote, not just the people who are outside, but also the people who are here, no problem. But we prefer to move forward in anticipation that this opportunity does not come to two thirds because last year's legislature has already invested a lot of effort in the electoral law and there was no opportunity to approve it. And so, so, we've wanted this time, so, somehow, to heal with salvation on its own, huh? In relation to why it makes you lock in the question of the reference. I don't know, it could be a reference to constitutional reform, too, right? That maybe you'd agree, and so it would seem good that people could vote. In any case, what we obviously cannot accept is not that you replace Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the paragraph, therefore, "referendars or elections constitute by participatory processes, but we do not want to return to the 9-N screen, we hope that you do not want to return, and therefore we remain with the demand made of the reference, therefore, by Mr Nuet. To say, too, that we insist on the fact that we are not addressing a type of Catalan, or Catalans who are independent or to whom they are not. That is to say, I would place the deputy of Ciutadans who knows how to identify me in which line, in which paragraph, with which word, from all the young person, is excluded from anyone. I think you're too obsessed with dividing Catalan society and seeing division where it isn't. Therefore, I would ask you, sincerely, what rectifications. There's no word, no paragraph, no phrase in this young man who somehow separates the Catalans. It is addressed to all those people who live outside Catalonia. There's nothing – nothing – to identify these people with their ideology, or if they're partisans of any ideological debate, huh? You are a university teacher and therefore you help, I imagine, to interpret..., that the students interpret the law, not only on the basis of literality, but also according to the context and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.135.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.136.0	... neither in the context, nor in the literality you have found there what it seems you want me to say and that I have not said. Therefore, I would ask you to rectify it. And I also take the opportunity to close the intervention by sending a strong embrace to all people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.137.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.138.0	...that they were at the CIE yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.139.0	Congresswoman, I'm having a hard time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.140.0	... d'Aluche, because there are people who really can't afford to ask... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.141.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs Beltran, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.142.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.143.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.144.0	In reply to Mrs Gabriel, we have said that the external vote must be for all the citizens of the State, because it is a problem that affects everyone. And also, in this Parliament, then, we must start to say that there are people, that there are citizens who are types of proceedings. And so, the reference doesn't go in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.145.0	Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.146.0	For a separate vote, Madam President. For a band, point 3, and, together, they could vote 5 and 6. The 3 for one band and the 5 and the 6 for the other. Thank you – all right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.147.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.148.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.149.0	... why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.150.0	...to ask for a separate vote. We for..., of course, I think it would be better to vote point by point, because we have separate votes for points 1, 2 and 7, that we could vote together; points 3, 5 and 6, that we could vote together, and points 4, 8 and 9, that we could vote together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.151.0	Anyway, the 3rd seems to me to have asked that it is separate votes. So, anyway, can we vote? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I've got it here, too... l'1, 2 and 7 can vote together; if there's no inconvenience to 1, 2 and 7 can vote together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 3 must vote separately. The 5th and 6th are able to vote together, and then the 4, the 8th and 9th are able to vote together. Is everyone okay with this vote? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Mr. Nuet, were you asking for the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is that it? [[Pause.]] Okay. So, if it looks like it, let's do this vote, huh? I'll go ahead and vote every time and we'll do those votes. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, the vote begins; but we will now vote on points 1, 2 and 7, which are voted together. The vote begins. Points 1, 2 and 7 were approved by 120 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. We shall now vote separately on point 3. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 70 votes to 33, with 27 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 5 and 6. The vote begins. Points 5 and 6 were approved by 70 votes to 49, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 4, 8 and 9. The vote begins. Points 4, 8 and 9 were approved by 97 votes to 10, with 23 abstentions. Therefore, the Ministry on Catalan Communities Abroad has been approved. Thank you all very much. We suspend the session until this afternoon at three o'clock. [[The session is suspected to be a quarter of two in the middle and eight minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the First Vice-President, the First Secretary, the Second and Third Secretaries and the Fourth Secretary. Attend the General Secretary in office, the Major and the Immaculate Folk and Bonafonte.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.152.0	Let's resume the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into universities]] [[302-00074/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government about universities, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.153.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Members, Members..., well, you know that the Socialist Group has put the Ple passed an inquiry into universities to try to ask the Government..., urge the Government to put on the table some important themes of relevancy, fears that we believe we need to concretely, on what can be advanced. And we don't just believe it, but the university community, and in concrete terms the rectors, have repeatedly called for, and are asking for, an improvement in the funding of their universities, because it is true that it is too much of the crisis, and it is certain that in the past few years there has been a reduction of almost 20_per_cent in the funding of universities, and despite the fact that the taxes have increased by 66_per_cent the amount of funding has not just been one of the elements in the course, let's say, of these last years for what it does to universities. Therefore, we have wanted to focus very much on this reason to put black on white some themes for us important ones. One is public finance, taxes and scholarships. Therefore, say: "We reduce university fees, as it was approved a few months ago in this same chamber. If we lower taxes, we have to increase funding. They can't say reduce taxes and it's already there. They can be reduced and then increased funding, because, if not, we would harm the same universities. We demand a financing plan for public universities from 2017 to 2021 and an investment plan, an investment plan that has not been updated for a long time, which has not, in any way, been expanded or increased in the last few times for the economic situation, and we believe that now is the time. Now that the economy seems to be improving, that Catalonia's GDP is growing above the Spanish middle and that it seems that some data are leading a little better and we will probably have some better data in the tickets, we believe it is time to set up a financing plan, to set up a plan of public university investments. The rectors are asking for it. They've been complaining about it for days. Since the Catalan Association of Public Universities work in a manifesto that calls for this, that calls for a certain commitment from the government to the medium term for what it does to finance. We believe that it is justice and, in fact, with the transactions we have made in this motion with the group that supports the government, we believe that we understand that the government also wants to be on this line, and therefore accepts some of our proposals. I mean here, before I run out of time, I want to thank Congressman Castellà for his waistband, his flexibility at the hour of trying to wake up this young man. It's true that there could have been a lot of bluntness and a lot of intransigent and telling us that no, but I think he knows almost better than the congressman of the chamber who is the situation at the universities, and so I also understand that he understands and understands the fact that he can move forward. Probably, the levels of progress are quite different, but I also think it is important to reach a certain agreement to move forward even though it is less than we would like to give an answer to this complaint that the rectors make in such a strong way the last weeks. Also on this motion we ask to present a plan within four_months to stabilize university staff. You know we're already very precarious in college, it's a bunch of associates, we haven't talked many times in committee either. And it seems to me that it is important that we can do this plan within four_months and that we can present and advance in this stability of the faculty, of the PDI and also of the PAS. We also talk in this young man, beyond taxes, beyond finance and teaching, that is, about working conditions, about technology transfer, about knowledge transfer. It is a key element for our economic model. As the knowledge that universities generate is localized in the territory, it generates value added to our businesses, to our economy. And, therefore, it is important that we move forward in this sense, and we believe that we have put some of the points linked to innovation... that seem interesting to me. Another element that I would like to highlight before I run out of time is a point that we have raised on the Serra Húnter plaza. The Serra Húnter plan was agreed for fifteen years – its financing, for fifteen years – and now the government was sending it to us in one reading until 2030. We thought it was a long-term extension, that we could reduce it. But, above all, beyond reducing an extension, what we wanted to do was make an assessment of this plan, be able to review it well and adapt it to what resulted from this assessment and review. Some rectors also tell us that it's true that things can always get better. And, therefore, I believe that the government, in this sense, has sought a good solution so that we can move forward on an objective that I believe is common. Therefore, I believe that, finally, if it is approved as we have proposed, with acceptance of papers and transactions, well, it is a good agreement for what it does to universities and the public university system, for what it does to research and innovation. And we hope that the university community too is satisfied, at least in part, with this adventure that I hope we can do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr. David Mejía, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.155.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, let's talk about universities again, and that's good news, because it shows that Parliament has the needs and the urgency of our university system present. But it's not less certain that we're also concerned. And we are concerned because we do not see a plan of government, and coordinated with the university community as well as with the different agents involved, to help in a concrete way to solve precisely all these needs and all these emergencies to which I refer. This young man, which is very extensive and to which we already advance that we will give support, to most of his points, has different blocks. In the first block is talk about university taxes to Catalonia. We have deeply insulting taxes, which they impose on us as the autonomous community of Spain more expensive. And that's not Madrid's fault. This is the Government of the Generality's fault. That the price of our taxes triples that of other autonomous communities, such as Andalusia or Galicia, this is not Madrid's fault. This is the Government of the Generality's fault. Whether the price of our taxes is at the level of countries like Holland or the third most expensive region in Europe, this is not the fault of the others. This is the General's fault. And all this has a series of consequences, and some negative consequences. So, for example, that the Catalans lead the autonomic race..., where the enrollment represents a major effort at family middle income, with a 7 and a half percent. Then, too, we are talking about another important issue, that it is the fact of establishing a course of scholarships that seeks to solve the insufficiency that really exists, they understand as criteria fairness and they also understand as criteria excellence at the time of trying to establish mechanisms and a way to try to reduce the precariousness that our scholarships have today. The university, we believe, from our point of view, must maintain its role as a social ascent and allow equal opportunities, and we cannot lose that. And speaking of scholarships, do you know how many annual scholarships, taking the middle price, could be donated, for example, with the 50_millions that the government will allocate to its empty Catalan heritage of contents? So more than 18,000 annual scholarships to our young people and our students. But it is clear that the Government of Catalonia has other priorities and interests them more to create a series of empty state structures of contents, as can be the own history, as can be the Catalan CNI, than not to take our students. Another aspect presented to the House is the fact that we seek solutions to reverse the financial and doctrinal difficulties that we find today, some financial difficulties that are certainly, and do not deny, but that they should not be raised either by talent, by research, by innovation, or by technological transfer, which are part of what from Citizens we defend as the system of knowledge to which we must arrive. In this sense, we regret that one of our papers on technology transfer and Eurecat has not been accepted. But for all these questions that I am talking about – talent, research, technology transfer – it is necessary to have a useful plan and the hand of all those involved. And this plaza can be said as it says, it can be said as Serra Húnter or it can be said as it is. But it is necessary to define well the help that our students have to have and which is defined well who are the needs that our teachers have so that they have the opportunities of internationalization and personal development. In this sense, we must say that we are satisfied with the compromise adopted by the Government with the transaction made on the basis of the threat that we have also presented from Citizens. Look, having a good college and a good college model shows an advanced and forward-looking society, and we can't leave that and we can't leave it back. We do not lose opportunity and we do not find ourselves in party politics that do not help the consensus. Because our young people and our students deserve it, our teachers deserve it and, above all, the future of Catalonia also deserves it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.156.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, the words of Mr Antoni Castellà, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.157.0	Thank you, President. I believe that today, with this young man, that most of the time he is agreed, we mark, let me just say, in the Chamber, a precedent that is very interesting, in terms that I would like, on behalf of the group that supports the Government, to congratulate Mrs Romero. I say this from the perspective that in universities and research we place, this young man, on the most important issues we have to deal with, on the most uplifting issues, with rigour. Mass sometimes, one of the problems that we Members have, especially in the field of universities and research, is to discuss a system that is completely unknown. It's not a matter of disagreeing or not. It's out of touch. And, therefore, today, this young man places us in who are the relevant areas, respects finance, his structure, the design of scholarships, teaching policy... and, above all, that the excellent result of the university research system at these times, basically, has been because in the last fifteen years the great policies of talent and finance have been agreed independently of the different governments that have existed. Therefore, probably this young man, if we make an effort all the parliamentary groups, can serve us to go by maintaining the same dynamic that we have had. So, in the short time... I'll only mention two themes, one in which I'm still discriminating and one in agreements, which I think is the most relevant. The first is the first point, that of taxes. And I'm going to use the arguments of these days of the Reguant MP in tax matters, systemically. She told us that the Spanish tax system is a regression. I agree. That it's all about labor and consumption returns. I agree. Let the politicians, or some of the neoliberals, lead us not to weigh on direct taxes and divert it to indirect ones. I agree. And, precisely, that makes them taller than they get. I agree. And why should I say that? I understand that because indirect taxes, logically, are exactly the same for everyone, whatever the rent is. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! When we get to college, what they're looking for at this point is to load up the delivery shield In fact, approving a drop of only 30_per_cent – only – benefits major yields of 60,000_euros. At the moment, and I am convinced that all Members know it, the system in Catalonia, that it has nothing to do with the system of the State, cannot even compare it to myths, because it has nothing to do with the system of the State, it has five shields. The total fee is paid at the price of €60,000. From here, the one in Room 5 has a bonus of 10_per_cent; to 4, a 20; to 3, a 30, until Room 1, in which students who are at Room 1 income, who are less than 20,000_euros, pay half the price. If what we apply is the drop of the 30, only – only – see the benefits of more than 60,000_euros. It is a policy, yes, neoliberal, regressive, with which you escape high and put them all at the same level. Therefore, I would understand a lot better, and I think that we can talk about this among all of us, depending on the presuppositional availabilities, of course, and our lack of tax revenues, but that someone said to me: "Let's lower to 30_per_cent the 0, 1 and 2 of the rent. That... I would be completely in agreement in conceptual terms. But what is proposed here today, and is probably going to vote, is that it's down to higher returns of 60,000 euros. It is very contradictory, especially with some of the debates we have had on tax matters during this plenary session in Parliament. But we know and analyze who the income levels are, because I'm sure that in this case we can come to an agreement. And, finally, President, one of the agreements that I believe to be most relevant, respects the Serra Húnter programme. I think we can all agree that one of the most essential elements is talent capture. It was with ICREA and it was, and it is, with the Serra Húnter program. Let's separate what the law of extension is, which only affects the funding of universities – only the funding of universities. Mrs Romero, we agree that... if you prefer 2020, then let's leave it to 2020. We'll do the read-only law, it'll only affect this, they know it can't change, it would be an error to remove it because it would affect the program, we'll self-talk with the Accompanying Law, it's possible to do it. And that's the compromise. But above all, we'll turn on the dialog and the debate of which is the object. The aim of the programme is that the calls are open to the world, that the courts are internationalized and that the candidates are over the middle of their department. This is the goal of incorporating five hundred teachers with this profile. And that's what we discuss among all of us if we do more or less effectively, but I think recovery is getting to that goal. Think... and I'm done with two dice. At the last two tons of Serra Húnder the level of internationalization of the faculty that was incorporated is 92_percent of the internationalized professors. Do they know what the Spanish medium is? The only 8_per_cent of the faculty. So this is a huge leap in quality. And we all agree, and I think we're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.158.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.159.0	...with whom was the impact...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.160.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.161.0	... – I finish – 250 ICREA in this country, imagine 500 with the same profile by 2020. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.162.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.163.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., thanks especially to Mr. Castellà to announce this pre-agreement between Democrats and the UPC in progressive taxation matters. [[Some applause.]] I suppose you'll have to talk to the direction of the parliamentary group later. In any case, our higher education also counts it as a right, as primary or secondary education. That's why we're talking about the fact that prices are accessible beyond pricing. Secondly, if we're talking about pricing, the equity scholarships, which, according to the government, make university truly accessible to all social classes, in particular to the children of the popular classes..., we don't think it's a match to what's going on. And that's why we're focusing on it. Because everyone knows teachers who explain the cases of students who may be entering the first class, but they have to leave the race in half because they are not compatible with continuing to work, and that's why it seems very good to us to be talking about paid scholarships to the young man..., or teachers who are conscious of suspending students for the price you have to repeat the certificate. I mean, it's a problem, the pricing system, facing accessibility, right? So, it's okay to talk about progress, it's okay to talk about what you want to do, but it's not enough, it's what's done, it's not much less. And against this they protested, precisely, the twenty-six people of the university community – teachers, NOT and students – who were locked up at the Rectorate of the Autonomous University in 2013, and with whom we take advantage to show solidarity from this rostrum. We also wanted to incorporate the question of master's degrees, as 3+2 can mean an attachment to the university career joint, because the masters are more expensive than the degree, and in particular they are even more suitable masters, who arrive some up to twenty thousand euros for sixty credits. And they proliferate, the masters close, faster than the official masters to the public. That's what we were talking about last March, and that's why we proposed a theme that calls for complexi. This is why it takes precedence and universal accessibility to the university. About the Serra Húnter, we have also mentioned..., noting that one of the objectives of any place is also to combat precariousness in the contract and the conditions of the faculty. And why do we say that? It has to be checked, the Serra Húnter..., because it is obvious that it wanted to complete, or has completed, two objectives: one that is to open a stable contracting path, and therefore to combat precariousness, as we understand it, the precariousness of who is temporary, and, on the other hand, the objective of bringing brains, right? I'm afraid I've got brains that have been turned around the world, international. Three data on the precariousness of the faculty, the extremities of a recent report by the Observers of the University System – some have also been mentioned: a professorship where false associates abound, a fact that also reminds the Union of Accounts; a professorship where in the last two years the temporality of contracts has increased and more than five points has fallen the stable staff in the last few years, and the maximum percentage of temporary PDI is increased, and, finally, that precariousness means that it also produces, I quote literally, "a strong reduction in the contract of young researchers by the way of state or autonomous calls. What's the matter, then? That when a Serra Húnter square comes out, legitimately, these young teachers no longer want to opt for this Serra Húnter square, which in theory would not be so designed for them, but for this attraction of talent that has been internationalized, right? But, of course, it's normal that in the absence of other types of seats people want to opt for the Serra Hunter to stabilize themselves and get out of precariousness. Finally, we abstain in paragraphs 7 and 9, because whenever it is also public-private collaboration or it makes the guarantees very clear or we have doubts. The university has always defended that it must retain the ability to generate alternating discourses, not hegemonics that promote publications and companies that finance research primarily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Giner, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.165.0	President, Members, Members, yes it is – yes it is – that this young man presents a species of change of attitude, especially on the part of the group that gives support to the Government, at the time of speaking of universities. Opening up to work on the Serra Húnter platform is a positive news, it's news that we'll work on, it's news that the university community has claimed. I'm talking about rectors, I'm talking about business committees, I'm talking about people who make a university possible every day. The theme, the one we see here, the one that's coming, and that's one thing I want to warn you of... is that it's a possible university model for Catalonia. That's the end of the story, a neo-liberal from around here, isn't it? So in the end, neoliberal ideology thinks that there is only one model, one way to hear university, one economic model for which our country's higher education is. And that's not it. Things aren't just technical. Things are political. And it's more: here's politics. Politics is knowing how to hear the world, and it's having own ideas and different ideas from what it can do. So, when we're talking about lowering the number of students, many of us think that the university should be public and free. We believe in a model, and we believe that if we have to lower the materials no one is talking here about, meanwhile, loading the fairies. None. Progressivity, no one talks about taking it in the measure that we lower the materials. Let's talk about the fact that the university has to play a major role, a bigger role of the generality's assumptions, of the... of the fact that it's given since the government. I said: "There is no money, there is never money. There are determined fiscal policies – and I know that this escapes from the issue, but it's all going together here – that would allow you to have this presuppositional ability to face a university as we want. We have a college of co-op. And if we co-sponsor other public services, we'll put our hands in the head. So, we understand that the university is the central piece..., it's one of the central fishes, it's what has to be an example, that example that allows us..., for example, that the year 2011 a mobilization against Bolonya allows many students to go out to the street, that will allow this year on November 12th there is a demonstration called for the Groga Assembly, and on November 19th there is another manifestation, and during that week there will still be more mobilizations. And from here, there's no future, and from here, there's nothing that's waiting for us. Then we need to see where we're going. I warned a long time ago, the councillor, who is here, that if he did not respond to the will of the university community, to the will of society, at the time of facilitating access to the university, at the time of making changes in the university system, they would come out here to Parliament to ask the leaders of those responsible. We make these changes, because, if not, during those weeks it is possible to start this willingness to ask the leaders of those responsible. And I'm glad that there's this willingness to start making changes. I'm celebrating. Let's hope the assumptions reflect that. And I believe that in the motion presented by the company Alicia is talking about fiscal capacity at the time of making their proposals viable. Let's hope that's the way it is. We believe that the proposal is complete, which responds to the most important issues that the university needs to raise, is full of good intentions. We've been short on firmer commitments. But, still, I see the good will there is, we will vote in favour of all, or almost all, of the proposal put to us by the Socialist Party of Catalonia. And a final bet. We have a university that has a generational jump in its faculty, which is great. Almost 50 percent of university professors and IDPs are over 50 years old. And the Serra Hunter board hasn't solved this yet. It's more: there's been a cross, let's just say, barely done. That's what the university community says. Let's talk about it and see how we can change this together with the university community. Because that's gonna be a big problem. Imagine, five or six years from now, that teachers will retire and departments will be left without teachers. And, at the same time, we have very precarious young people, young people with an international talent who go away, and this is a flight of talent that we get. So, one thing for another. And leave it here. Invite the entire society that looks at the 12th and 19th demonstrations. Getting out on the street is how we get the country we want, really; mobilizing ourselves as the people, in reality. And if there are no changes, if the government does not have the will to do this, the people will come to the door of Parliament to ask the leaders of those responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.166.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Giner. Next, there is the word María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.167.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we can be proud of our public universities. We can send our children to them with the peace of mind that they will generally be well trained, have trained teachers and also have opportunities. But it won't be, this, because the Generalitat does her job. It will be for their internal management, for the professionals who maintain prestige and experience, despite the precarious and discouraging conditions in which they sometimes have to work. Because without the necessary financial resources, the university cannot maintain its level, in facilities, in faculty, in programs, in support staff or in research. And without the necessary economic resources the university cannot act as the element of equity, of social justice, which must be allowing each student with capacity and desire to access the qualification that allows him to lead the life he prefers outside the economic situation of his family. We can say we have the talent, we have the tradition and the experience, we have the desire and we lack the funding. The Bofill Foundation told us in its last report that the Catalan university needs an additional 1,130_million_of_euros of public funding to be in the Spanish average as a percentage of GDP, considering that Spain does not..., is far from the European average. But, of course, this is not the Government's fault. This is the fault of this hyperactive, external and evil enemy, which is the Spanish state. What the Councillor did not explain the other day is that precisely the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, which is a constitutional principle, it is the one that has allowed the Generalitat to make a series of very wrong decisions that have led us to an unsustainable level of debt, which makes us stone in financial costs 7,000_million_of_euro per year, almost a fifth of the autonomous financing. Nor did he explain that our tax money is keeping Spain's heaviest and most expensive public sector: 393 entities, consortia, foundations, public societies; many duplicates, unnecessary and oversized. Look, with official data: Catalonia is the community with more public entities, a 20_per_cent more than the second, that is Andalusia, and a 150_per_cent more than the next, the third, that is Madrid. And with these priorities, the Generalitat employs 40_percent of its budget, which is 37,000_million, to pay debt, clientelism, public sector, identity expenses and state structures. The Generalitat has cut the budget of universities by 21_per_cent when the overall budget of the Generalitat has only dropped by 2.5_per_cent. And all this is financial autonomy, it's not the State's fault. Catalan universities are underfunded and some are bearing an unsustainable level of debt, they are subject to credit policies to pay payrolls. It is difficult, therefore, to put forward plans for the future. And all this is a consequence of the Generalitat's strategy of these years, of centrifuging debt, of centrifuging expenditure. But there is also another collateral damage, and it is the high, excessive level, which is being paid to students in Catalonia as fees, and this is also not the fault of that evil external enemy, but it is again the Generalitat who, taking advantage of its margin of autonomy, decided that Catalans paid 25_per_cent of the cost of the university square, the highest in Spain, by accepting it to the maximum legally allowed. We could pay 15_per_cent but we pay 25_per_cent because the Generalitat prefers to dedicate our money to other things. We also talk about equity, guaranteed with a sufficient, efficient and sustainable scholarship policy. In the socialist era, scholarships were granted from the central government without budget allocation. In 2010 there was a hole, an accumulated deficit that led the system to bankruptcy. The People's Party adjusted the scholarships to the budget and in four years provided an additional 300_million; it increased the average amount of scholarships and the number of students awarded, and efficiency criteria were also introduced, such as the academic performance of the scholarship and its socio-economic status. The result is that the number of refusals has fallen, the average number of scholarship students has risen, as has the percentage of scholarship students who pass the courses. This is important in relation to another data from the Bofill report, and is that between 13 and 23 per cent of students leave the university in the first year. Therefore, it seems that rewarding the effort has come true. In conclusion, we believe that, unfortunately, the Catalan system of technology transfer centres has not worked, perhaps because of the divorced university, which are today in Catalonia true knowledge factories. We must also ask ourselves – this is not the point of the motion – a sensible system, a map of degrees and sensible masters, with an overall vision and thinking of the general interest. Finally, from the People's Party we support the Serra Hunter program, but we believe that there are things to be reviewed so that we can effectively and effectively capture talent. Therefore, we will not give the Government a fifteen-year endorsement – we thought we would support the Socialist Party's point – without revision or possibility of making improvements. Because, look, the goal of our eagerness in this field we believe that it can be no other than to seek an excellent institution at the service of society. Thank you very much, President, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the emens, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.169.0	Thank you, President. Very quickly, I wanted to thank, in general, all the Members, to whom they have submitted papers and to whom they have not done so, for their willingness to try to reach agreement on this motion. I think we're all paying a lot of attention to the university, because the university has suffered in the past few years a drop of 18_per_cent, I repeat, of public finance, an increase of 66_per_cent in university fees. Some Member has said, I think it was Mr Botran, and we agree, it will take time to see this progress together with the department, because it also makes us question when we talk to the teacher and when we talk to the student about whether he is actually paying more than he has. And with regard to income, but not with regard to other things and, therefore, who has a lot of assets, so, I don't know if he's paying more... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Castellà says yes. This is something that we want to work on a little bit more with you, and we thank the government for this change, right? It is true – and Congressman Giner said – a certain change in the tendency at the time to relate us in this area. Because what we approve of today is a sister, isn't it? , or to work a financing plan 2017-2021, an investment plan 2017-2021, an update of the national plan for research and innovation; in the next four months the presentation of a plan of stability of the faculty, so important and so necessary, because precariousness is one of the key elements, at these times, of the university system, of the universities. You said, Mr. Castellà, that the Serra Húnter is allowing there are five hundred people in the international arena. We think we need to balance a little bit of this, because it's true that if we are now, somehow, relying on most of the stable contract at Pla Serra Húnter, then surely the stability of the teacher beyond the Serra Húnter is getting worse. So, well, we need to go over some things. We thank them for wanting to make this change for what makes Serra Hunter on his behalf, and for rethinking and reviewing the plan, I think we'll all win, and so I think that, even though we could have been much more ambitious, I think we're getting out of it pretty well, that we're touching all the themes, that we at least put the thread in the needle to start sewing and then try to give answers and solutions to the problems the university has, that if we don't solve them, they'll end up chronifying. Therefore, thank you all and hope that we can finally approve the motion. And one thing that now reminds me of Deputy Giner: it is true that there is an addition at the end of point 1, that we would separate it and make a point 1 bis. President, that's not it, but I'm telling you: we added a sentence at the end of point 1; we'd like it to be 1.bis. And that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.170.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. (Founding voice) Mr. Botran, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.171.0	Request separate vote from points 7, 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.172.0	Mr. Botran, can you vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.173.0	Yeah. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.174.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.175.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 11. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.176.0	Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.177.0	To request separate vote from point 1, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.178.0	U?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.179.0	U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.180.0	Mr. Giner, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.181.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 1a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.182.0	Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.183.0	To request a separate vote on item 12, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.184.0	A separate vote has been requested on point 1, 1a; 7, 8, 9, which can be voted together, and 11 and 12. Okay? So, now we're gonna start voting all these points, as we said, and then we're gonna vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? So now we're going to vote number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 66 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 1-a-point. The vote begins. Point 1 bis was rejected by 54 votes to 59, with 10 abstentions. Next, we will vote together on points 7, 8 and 9. The vote begins. Points 7, 8 and 9 were approved by 116 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11 was approved by 102 votes to 23, with 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been approved by 94 votes to 8, with 23 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, Vice President, you're right. You don't have to vote. In any case, I appeal to the responsibility of all Members who know that, once the vote has begun, they cannot enter. We will repeat this vote, which was number 12 and, in any case, ask the three Members who have come in not to vote. So we're going to vote point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been approved by 95 votes to 7, with 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on universities was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into educational segregation]] [[302-00075/11]] The twenty-first point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on educational segregation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Jessica Albiach. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, be quiet so we can continue the session. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.185.0	Yeah, start? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, good afternoon to everyone. Before, we were talking about how college students are out, expelling a good number of students who could access the university and who for these prices cannot do so. And now we're talking about school segregation, and so, in compulsory education. We see how some are doing business with what is a basic right, such as education, and we defend that it is public and free in both mandatory and post-compulsory stages. This young man's starting point is the school segregation that we live in Catalonia by origin and by the economic and sociocultural level of families. A reality that made eight years ago the Syndic of Greuges already put black on white and, after the inopportunity of the Department of Education, resubmitted a new report before the study on this topic; a report in which three conclusions were mainly highlighted. The first was that the Department of Education did not develop sufficiently intensive policies and decided to combat school segregation in the student admission process. The second is that a political priority that is not being given to the fight against school segregation is attached to the freedom of choice of the centre. And the third is that the syndic ensures that the department does not fully recognize the problem of school segregation and does not generate enough collective awareness to fight it and to preserve and preserve the fairness of the system as usual. With this reality on the table, we present a young man who has the following objectives: the first is to avoid that there are first and second choices; there can be no circle of privileges and others of vulnerable. I mean, we have to work to get rid of the ghetto. The next objective would be to ensure that the school is a true tool of equality of opportunity and social cohesion where the best resources and the most comfortable and supportive environments for learning are at the bottom of all children. And the third would be to ban, as I said before, that it is doing business with our rights. We cannot be accomplices or finance with public money those schools and educational centres that exclude the least they have or the least they can. It is the duty and responsibility of public administrations to correct the source and social class bias that circumstances impose at the time of accessing the basic service. And, for all this, we have presented a motion that contains measures and proposals that go in the line of ensuring the proper and balanced distribution of students with special needs, so much learning, but also of social, economic or cultural character among all the educational centers of Catalonia; strengthening the role of municipal education offices, which are now underutilized, and creating a shared municipal strategy between administrations, one band, and educational community, the other. The participation of teachers and families is essential; a participation that must be real, effective and binding. The third line would be to sanction both the public centres, but also the concerted ones, which commit irregularities in the process of admission of the student, both with scores and with registration data. The fourth would increase the Generality's assumptions in the match for the contracting of EAP, logopedes, monitors and social integration techniques. And the fifth would be to guarantee the real compliment, because it is collected to the LEC, but it is not complete, of Article 50.2, that which refers to the gratuity of the centers held with public foundations. And that includes the public, which some are not doing, and the concerts. Therefore, they will inform families that they have no obligation to make economic contributions in the centre, neither public nor concerted. And, in addition, this information will have to be delivered on paper, but it will also be uploaded to the website of the centres and the Teaching Department. It must be made clear that the contributions are voluntary, that it is not possible to require the purchase of school materials either in the centre or in certain establishments, and that, moreover, if the families, voluntarily, decide to make an economic contribution that continues periodically they can cancel it at any time. Quotas are illegal, and therefore the annual inspection plan must be monitored because it is neither explicitly nor implicitly covered. And, for what it does on the return of the exams, say that many have presented themselves, but then, at the reply, I will begin to comment on them. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.186.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.187.0	Good afternoon, President. Members of the Bureau, Members of Parliament and Members of the Council, in this motion we address a key element of our education system: the fight against school segregation. We talk about school segregation when it detects an unbalanced distribution of students belonging to particularly vulnerable communities. Usually we always see ourselves at the top of immigration, it goes further: they are students of foreign origin, students with special educational needs and students from socioeconomically disadvantaged backgrounds. That's what we talk about when we talk about school segregation. Now, is segregation just an educational problem? Urbanism, the distribution of protected habitats, the service to the barrel..., to name some of the aspects that also have an impact on segregation, in general, and school, in particular. I say this because we are either aware that we have to have a country strategy around segregation and that school segregation is one of the main elements but not the only ones, or we will not get out of it; and that this strategy has to be adapted to the local environment in order to give a deep and powerful response to the problems. But this does not have to justify us not to continue taking, in short, what is a problem, which is school segregation; a problem of equal opportunities, social justice and educational equity. This opportunity to give us the reason we are debating is an opportunity and we will vote for it. Both the writing of the general points as the items that have been incorporated, that we have proposed and some that we have traded, we think it is a full route we share. Why? Because we share the need to strengthen collaboration and co-responsibility with the local world – it is key – and with the educational community. We cannot face segregation without the deep knowledge the local world has and we cannot face segregation without a close collaboration between the Department of Education and the local world. This is why we are proposing proposals to strengthen the role of municipal school offices, to strengthen the role and the joint strategies that must be held with local authorities and that we are sure that all of us share. We must not forget that school segregation is not only a segregation that is motivated, and Mrs. Albiach has said, for a question of economic inequality, it is motivated, also, because of inequalities in cultural capital, social capital and relational capital, with which one aspect that is key is empowerment – empowerment – and, especially, the empowerment of families that are in worse and more vulnerable situations. We think that the ability to dial, the ability to search for strategies together with the same families is key. I think we all know an example that's been very well known and that worked very well, that was Manresa's. I think we have this example. This dialog, this joint work is important and we must never give up taking over the weakest and most vulnerable. The youth also entered one of the key aspects at the time of the struggle against segregation, and Ms. Albiach placed it: the guarantee of the real free education. It's a key aspect. Both the syndic's and Save the Children's reports point out that school segregation cannot be reduced to a question of duality between the public and private sectors, because it is also a gift in the public sector; with which this real gratuity must be a cornerstone. And, as far as we are concerned, if irregularities are detected in private concerted centres or public centres, sanctions must be imposed – sanctions must be imposed – because the rules must be complied with. We share the need to make these sanctions and to increase the role and reinforcement of the inspection, which is a key element. We also share the need to increase, as has been done, the resources for the advisory team, the CREDA logos, monitors and support and social integration techniques. Now, I can't finish this intervention without placing an element that I think is key, we won't get out unless we can build consensus. An environment like education and an environment like segregation, we wouldn't get away with it if we didn't agree. Because this consensus is what will eventually generate a very diverse and well-adapted educational texture to give answers to all the needs of the various barrels and cities of our country, because at the end – and I want to finish with this – there is a phrase from writer Chesterton, who I think we should remember from time to time, that it is: "Rau innovation in depth, and deepening is working together with all those who know the problem of their problems. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.189.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. One of the mantras we feel most often in Catalonia is that the Catalan school is a model of success, of one band, and, of the other, that it is the only model that guarantees social cohesion. Obviously these two mantles are fallacious, because the Catalan school model is not recognized as the successful model instead. To quote a couple of international academic authorities, Inger Enkvist, who liked Mrs. Rigau very much, so much that she invited her to come here when we talked about the LEC and there was a bit of a scratch, or Thomas Jeffrey... – she's in the videos, they can see them –, or Thomas Jeffrey Miley. And, on the other hand, the other mantra, that of social cohesion; it is obvious that the rest of the world have other models and there is social cohesion, and here, as demonstrated by the reason that we are debating today, we cannot presume to have social cohesion, can we? For what he does to the education sector. Let's see what the scientific evidence tells us about social cohesion in education with, for example, Andy Green and his team saying there are three factors that promote social cohesion in education. The first is the educational quality, the second is the equity in the system – that is, all students have the same opportunities, regardless of the socioeconomic situation of families – and, thirdly, the equity in results – that is, results that are not very unbalanced, regardless of the socioeconomic situation of the family. For today's reason, points 2 and 3 are of particular interest to us. For what it does at point 2, which is fairness in the system, it is obvious that not all students have the same opportunities in Catalonia. For example, if a family has economic resources, they can choose, if they so desire, a multilingual education, while if the family does not have economic resources, they must conform to a monolingual system, with a single vehicle language. Similarly, if the family has economic resources, it can ensure that their children go to a school with low or no concentration of immigrants, and, if they do not have resources, they may have to conform to a school with a high concentration of immigrants, as we see in today's movement. I will give you a concrete example, which I know very well: at Raval we have an educational center with one, more or less, 75_percent of people of foreign origin, while very close to a concerted center with a 6_per_cent. When I say I mean the same street, three-hundred meters and four minutes walking. If with four minutes walking we have 75_per_cent of immigrants and 5_per_cent of the concertee, there is something that has been done very badly. At New Barris, for example, the public center with the most concentration of immigrants has a 52_per_cent, while the concert center with the least has a 19. And these differences are not only given between public and concerted schools, even though we have districts that have concerted schools with zero immigrants; for example, one in the Eixample, one in Sants-Montjuïc and two more in Sarria. But at public school we also have these differences, for example, in Horta-Guinardó a public school has a 63_per_cent foreign student, while a public has 3_per_cent. Experts warn that this situation is against social cohesion and ask for a change in family planning... – sorry, what would be thinking – a change in school planning [[relays]] That's what he's asking this young man, too. Xavier Bonal, professor of sociology at the UAB [[remorse of the voice]] , tell us – they got nervous, huh? I see them all laughing [[relays]] – that the concentration of immigrant students in a centre has a negative impact on the school income of these students. And, effectively, Catalonia is the autonomous community where foreign students get worse results from all of Spain, as the Jaume Bofill Foundation report and another Save the Children report tell us. And this brings us to the third point necessary for the social cohesion that I mentioned at the beginning of my intervention, which is the fairness of the results in the margins of the socioeconomic situation of the families, which is not a good thing in Catalonia: the difference between immigrant and indigenous students is 82 points, while in Madrid, financed worse than Catalonia and with a similar immigration index, is a 59_per_cent. We want to make it very clear, however, that immigration is not synonymous with school failure, as my friend, Mrs Rigau, said, when December 2013 attributed the bad results of Catalonia to PISA for the high presence of immigrants. Because it turns out we have a success model, but when we failed PISA it's the immigrants' fault; I seem very read, Mrs Rigau. I insist, being an immigrant is not just a school breaker, because, if that were the case, countries with a strong presence of immigrants would be at the top of PISA, and that is not the case. In this regard, we thank Mrs Albiach for presenting the motion to try to solve this problem. We shall vote in favour of it for the most part. We'll abstain at point 3, because we've presented an issue that was trying to deal with the arbitrariness that we think will bring its writing, they didn't accept it; then we'll abstain. And also in two items that have been accepted together for the Yes, which we think will make the writing worse. And finally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.190.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.191.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.192.0	It's been a long time, I guess. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.193.0	Okay. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, there is the word María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.195.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with, let us talk about equity, not segregation; let us speak in favour so that any student in Catalonia can integrate himself, remain and promote himself into the education system, receiving the excellent training he deserves, with the support he needs, to develop his full potential. Because excellence is opportunities, and opportunities for all is equity. First of all, we do not believe that it is so much a question of distributing pupils as of guaranteeing each one the attention and support he needs. We defend the freedom of parents to choose the educational project for their children, a right enshrined in our Constitution, and we do not believe that any official should decide for the families. We believe that, if there is a need for special education or specific support or reinforcement, this is not a problem that needs to be covered up; what we must do is to ensure that that centre, any centre that parents choose will help their child with the means he deserves, because our system will be equitable. Because the problem is not the child who needs a certain support, nor the collective who needs a certain support: the problem is our educational system, if it is not up to it. And that is why we have to change many things: regulate inclusion well; ensure coordination; complete, adequate and permanent training of teachers; respect for plurality and diversity; resources to pay for the necessary support; accessibility of educational environments; the development of indicators..., but above all we have to believe in inclusive education, and in these aspects the action of the Government of Catalonia is not contributing what we deserve. On the one hand, we have been waiting for years for the specific regulation on inclusion, which we are told is already there, but which we are taught with an insulting suspicion and which has not just been advertised. We need more money for education, but not because for separatists it is a state structure, which now Catalonia Yes, it is Pot has also become separatist [[relays]] , but because good education will guarantee more opportunities, and that is the basis of a solidarity, just and equitable society, which is what we pay taxes for. We do not need a Catalan tax agency to do what the liquidating offices already do well, and less to be a structure of a state that we are not; but we do need, at least, an additional EUR 2,000_million for education, seriously underfunded by the Generalitat. We've been saying it here for three years. Now the Bofill Foundation has also said this in its last report, demanding an additional €5,000_million for education, to be in the European average, and has presented very worrying data. Bofill tells us that 35_percent of students in special schools could attend ordinary school; he tells us of 1,352 professionals in these special schools who could devote themselves to inclusive schooling, as recommended by the UN, as claimed by families, and also as, from here, the People's Party has defended itself in parliamentary office. Bofill tells us about the difficulties of non-Spanish students in completing the ESO and their low presence in post-compulsory studies, and also about the high repeater rate in the ESO. For all this, we also have the endorsement and guidance of the UN, which has just published a document, called "General Comment No. 4 on the Convention, detailing the implications for states and their territories to implement article 24 of the Convention, which is the one dealing with inclusive school. Regarding the concerted school, we defend the freedom of families – we have already said this – and we also advocate freedom of education, so that the educational offer can reflect the plurality of society and because being able to choose supports freedom, with options that must be able to reach everyone, so that they are not elitist. And that's why we advocate a stable and sufficient educational concert scheme. Because, otherwise, it is impossible to ask for free social initiative projects that are not receiving funding per square of the public square, but are receiving much less, and that cannot bear the deficit and debt that the public sector can bear. Therefore, look, we, in all these things on the quotas, are going to abstain, but let no one think that we are supporting any abuse on this issue, let alone. The motion of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, on the one hand, reiterates the content of the LOE and the LEC and, on the other, raises issues that conflict with the laws. We have tried to put forward and correct this with amendments that have not been accepted and that have not been negotiated either. We are not going to support contradictory things against the law; we regret the bad luck we have had in this motion. In short, we believe that we have to believe, starting with the Government and some groups, that we are a plural society, where we all have the right to feel cared for and respected, within the framework of our legal rules of coexistence. And that is why, and to conclude, briefly, because equity is based on equality of opportunity, also linguistic, we demand from the Generalitat and the whole educational community the non-discrimination of students whose families prefer an education with Castilian vehicle, because they have the right, because they are an official language; because studying in another language is an added difficulty; because they deserve the same respect and opportunities as those who opt for an education in Catalan, and because there is no social cohesion that can be achieved by imposing models of force and laminating individual rights. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.196.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're not doing well today, are we? Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.197.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, I suppose we would all agree with a first premise, that to have a more egalitarian society it is essential to start with an education with less inequality, both for reasons of origin, of territories, economics, racials, etc. But it may be recalled that our concerted school, the one we currently have, appeared precisely after the franchise, and precisely came out to give response to an increase in demand for school places that the government then could not take up publicly. Now, he's spent a lot of time abroad, and today, despite having full powers, we believe that he hasn't grown up to increase the percentage of public schools, or even to bet on the actual disappearance of this double network. Even if he advised, the school income, despite what previous companies have said, the school income in public centres is equal to or better than in the concerted centres, and this shows indicators..., I don't know what the Bofill would say, but he informs PISA and the same results that come from selectivity. And, despite this, the public school dropout continues to be a very important comparative burden. We can go to the first details of the tripartite, continue for which it was then realized with the Government of Artur Mas, which begin to contemplate hard and great differences, very big differences in material and human resources between public and concerted schools. And this becomes one more time with less and, therefore, tightens the rope and ends up breaking. And maybe it's more realistic to say that the thing that broke down... the fairness between the two types of centers, if it's that at some point this equality existed. For another band, we find that the entrance to the concerted school places a topall of access that discriminates certain social groups; we have said, it has recognizable itself. It separates the already-entry student according to his/her income level and..., which in itself would not entail a segregation problem, he/she would not..., but the families sometimes confound the term‘quality, since these certainly define that society is used to relating a school that is of higher quality when the student has a higher socioeconomic level. And that's just fake. That's what they say too. Now, if the government helps to generate these inequalities by putting wheels on public school, it turns out that education as well as common and public education has become a service that separates social groups from children's education. We have a financing problem; you know, the government. We have a serious financing problem, which is the important element of segregation, and more so if we take into account that, as the LEC predicted, in the final provision according to the second, the investment in education respects GDP had to be 2.45_per_cent in 2009 and go up to 6_per_cent in 2017. At this time, not only has it not increased, but it has decreased by 2,4_per_cent. And that's problematic, because when there are proposals to improve the education system or when a people comes together to present an ILP with which it was rejected, it seems that you can't touch either a point or a comma of the LEC, but in change, when we have to change the assumptions to the low, and especially if it's for the public, then everything goes. We're talking about a tough case, we're talking about not taking over the investment agreed on in 2009 with the famous consensus law, according to which it would be worth a 145_per_cent increase in the investment that has been made so far in education. This young man wants to make an impact on some of the themes that need to be modified, changed, and greeted. It was time to do it; but there are fears that they will remain and we want to reschedule them. It is necessary to focus much more decisively on the proper planning of the educational offer and to transform it so that it is more homogeneous, guaranteeing material and quality conditions; guaranteeing real gratuity to the teaching of zero years at the university, as claimed by the ILP that it was rejected. And it's true, the young lady is moving on, but we think we need to go a little further. Call the elimination of the double network. The concerted school segregates economically, and while there are there will not be a truly equal education system. The concerted school has to sort between being public and free – there are items in this direction – or private, and then not a single public cent for the private negotiation of some. We have to finish with the educational concert starting with the most secretive schools and, above all, the ones that do it because of sex and elite issues. And I'd like to finish, since today we've made some quotes and we've read some records, with a contribution that he made to us in Ferrer and Guardia remembering the hunchbacks – he was on October 13, 1909. Ferrer and Guàrdia said: "The modern school must contribute to the study of everything that is favorable to the freedom of the individual and the harmony of the collectivity, by means of pau and benevolence, without distinction of class or sex. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, in order to fix her position, has the word "Mrs. Alicia Romero", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.199.0	Good afternoon... Yes, I work a lot, deputies – I work a lot. [[The joker laughs.]] Well, I have five minutes... Well, I'd like to thank Congresswoman Albiach for presenting this young man and asking about school segregation, because it seems to me to be one of the most important problems, one of the many important problems we have at this time in the educational sphere. I already gave the report of the Greuges Synod, you also said... Save the Children said it, and it's an element I think that... that we should pay some attention to. In fact, I believe that the thought and the transactions that have been proposed with Juntes for the Yes – therefore, the Government – will make some elements better. But we can't let go of the band and we can't forget that since 2010 education retailers in this country have been 900_million euros. We cannot forget that we are the sixth country of the European Union that has more detailed in education and that we are one of the countries that least dedicates to education in relation to its as much as per cent of GDP, and, in this sense, we annihilate countries like Laos or Peru. And I'm not saying, I'm not saying the Socialist Party, I'm not saying the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I'm saying a study presented a while ago for the Jaume Bofill Foundation which, in addition, other Members have commented. So, just for that, I think we should make an effort to change these data and trends. Clearly, we dedicate a lot of less resources that 2010 generates, among other things, segregation, because if we eliminate the six-hour, because if we don't replace the teachers until the fifteenth day, if we don't have the substitutes on September 1, if we don't have support for inclusive school, etc., those families that can sort it out, who can sort it out because they have a certain economic capacity, go to the concerted school. And only this already generates a certain segregation, which is that those who can sort the concert because competitively brings more benefits. I will give another example: school institute. The project, the idea of school school that we had the government of understanding, therefore, was a model that was just trying to balance or annihilate what concertads do, that they are... that they have an element of better competitive in relation to this, because there are many pairs that prefer that from P3 their child is kept at the same educational center. So, well, don't bet on this model, don't bet on the six hour and, as I say, this sequence of detail we've been carrying since 2010 brings us to a clear segregation, to a clear segregation of economic type, and also, that's what's mostly talking about this young man, in relation, therefore, to people, to students with special needs. The concertee has to assume her responsibilities, she has to share responsibility, we agree, and she probably needs more control, and if so, so that they do not comply, so the corresponding penalties. So that among all of us we make the necessary efforts to try, therefore, a certain fairness, that at these times I think we cannot say that it is there. I am grateful that Mrs García Cuevas spoke of fairness when you voted against eliminating the agreements we have with private schools that secrete by sex. So this is also an element of fairness, isn't it? We should therefore make a great deal of effort to improve this element of segregation, which does not favour a public school of secular quality as we defend from the Socialist Group. We'll give support to the whole young man. It seems that in some respects, therefore, it has been improved with the transactions that have taken place with some groups, but, go on, here we will put some elements of better, it is true. For example, it's about the very important municipal school offices; one of the things that this government hasn't done in the past is perhaps to work more closely with the local world and, therefore, we are pleased that these elements are incorporated. But, above all, what falls into educational policy and what falls into education is to increase the resources we spend in this country. I think we should all fall into a little shame that we are at country level like Peru or Laos – and let's not say so ourselves – and, therefore, it would be hot for the government, that at these times you must be working out your assumptions, trying to increase resources in education and also in higher education, just now that we have come to talk and discuss a young man about university. It is essential that knowledge, that formation, that education be the basis of our model of society, of our model of country, because if not, I don't know which model of country they want to build you in a future that is expected or that they say they want independent. Therefore, more resources in education, which will surely help a lot than this school segregation, so it does not become chronic in a model that we want public and quality, as we have said before. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the motion, and we thank Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and Mrs Albiach, therefore, that you have dealt with such an important issue for the fairness and equal opportunities of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.200.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.201.0	Yes, very quickly, before we start with the subject. Deputy Cuevas, Catalunya Yes that is Pot has not become separatist, it has always been separatist; but separatist of the LOMCE, of the Gürtel, of the Punic, of the rotating doors [[some applause]] , 135, corruption, the mafia, putting the capitals ahead of people. We've always been separatists, so it's nothing new. And now, on the subject... I also wanted to name Congresswoman Serra. Much agrees that there are many fears pending, that much more needs to be deepened in this work of strengthening and defending the public school. She's just a young lady; she'll come in a lot more, and I'd like us to be allies, and I'm pretty sure she'll be like that. And, well, from here on out, thank all the groups for the papers they have presented to us, which have followed many and, more importantly, very interesting. It is clear that school segregation is an issue that concerns us all and is a country issue, and here I wanted to put in particular the papers that have been presented to us both by the UPC and Junts for the Yes; moreover, they have had a negotiating and conciliatory tarnanade to improve the text, and, well, I wanted to thank him. It is true that by educational model we have not been able to accept any slogan of the People's Party, and not only because we follow the party of the LOMCE, which is the law that has done the most wrong to the education system of the State, an unfair law, a segregatory law and the one that I need the most has aroused among the educational community... And, besides, our bet is to prioritize the fight against school segregation for the sake of the free center election, and defend the public school for the front of the concerted school. And, obviously, this isn't the shared model for the People's Party, and that's why we couldn't accept any of it. And I've said it before, we can't allow it to be negotiated with the money of all, and much less with the rights that are basic and of all. Education must offer all children the opportunity to prosper, to live a life worthy, to be the protagonists of their existence and to be free. And that is why we will always be free to negotiate with those who want a better life for all, and we will always be bound to negotiate with those who secrete by origin, sex or social class; it is a very simple question, it is of social justice. And lastly, I couldn't help but refer to all the municipalities that, while having a very complicated reality, are doing a lot of good work in the struggle against segregation, such as Alcanar, La Llagosta, Badia, Abrera, Castelló d'Empúries, La Bisbal d'Empordà, l'Escale, Sant Andreu de la Barca, Banyoles, Sant Joan de Vilatorrada, and many more; they are examples, they are references and we have to look to continue improving the public system of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Rigau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.203.0	President, I ask you for the word, after many opportunities, for allusions; after so many months, I ask you for benevolence so that you can reply at once.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.204.0	Forward, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.205.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Sierra is missing the truth, and I think it should be made clear. The public teaching in Catalonia is multilingual and not monolingual, and that's hard, to repeat a falsehood, session after session. The public education in Catalonia is of quality and multilingual: there are three languages taught, and there are more than 60_percent of centres taught, in different languages. And with regard to immigration, a subject that I deeply appreciate, I have to ask that we follow more rigorously. What we've always said, and it's logical, and it's saying good for our school, is that the more years it leads to the country and to the system of educating a new student, the less difference there is in the results. And the other way around: the more it is, the more different it is. And that says very much in favour of our country, and especially of the pedagogical and welcoming quality of our teachers. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.207.0	To ask for a separate vote and for a number of personal references. Separate vote... yes, president?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.208.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.209.0	Separate vote, please, from point 1, point 2.e, point 3.d... – is that 3? Yes, sorry –, 3.e and 3.f. Then, with regard to the allusions, first of all, to the deputy of Catalonia Yes that is Pot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.210.0	Excuse me, Congresswoman... a moment. He told me, point 1, 2.e, 3.d, 3.e and 3.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.211.0	Yes... yes, President. Thank you. I would not want anyone in this Chamber to have the idea that the amendments of the People's Party have been what the Socialist MEP said, because they have nothing to do with it. I do not know whether I do not explain myself well or whether the amendments I have tabled have not been read, but we were neither talking about the LOMCE nor talking about all that. In any case, if segregation is to separate those who do not want to be separated and I do not know any family that takes their children to a separate school, that they have forced them to do so, no one has gone by obligation, I understand that it would be you who would segregate those children, would force segregation of those families if they forced them to take their children to the school that you like and not to the school that those parents choose. Therefore, in defense of freedom, it is how we defend differentiated school, you already know. And in relation to this last allusion made by Mrs Rigau, that the Catalan system is multilingual, nothing further from reality. I am very sorry to have to listen again to these questions which are genuine falsehoods, it is outrageous, because if so, Mrs Rigau, I do not understand how you to the three-thousand families who have asked the councillor, when you were a councillor, education where the Castilian had a certain vehicular presence, why don't you direct them to those schools? Why did they not respond or direct individualized attention? If those schools existed, you could provide them to those parents. But they don't exist, Counselor. And why didn't they give us the list to the People's Party? This Member spent the last eight months of her term of office in all parliamentary channels, asking for amparo from the Bureau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.212.0	Mrs. Garcia, I had a minute, but maybe in door three already...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.213.0	...even, the list of those bilingual schools...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.214.0	...and please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.215.0	... – yes; I finish, President; thank you – and that list was not made available to us. If you have the kindness to make it easier for us, when parents ask us which school they can take their children to, we will make it easier for them. Thank you – thank you –, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.216.0	Mrs. Sierra, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.217.0	For allusions. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.218.0	One minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.219.0	Clearly, I don't usually have the habit of saying lies and much less in his parliamentary office, which I leave for other groups. As far as I know, the only language to use in Catalonia is Catalan. If it has changed, the gifts thank you for, in order to, give support to the proposal that so many years ago Ciutadans claims to have three vehicle languages: Spanish, Catalan and English; in the same way that they legitimately chose, Mr.Artur Mas, Mr. Montilla and other members of Convergence to bring their children to private schools... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] , Convergence and Left. Finally, I keep going. Mrs Rigau, many years ago we knew her, before she was here, now she's there... As I can see, I'm following her a lot and I just want to put her to Google « Rigau i« immigrants; declarations of 2013, December 2013, I'm taking these from the SER, at random, but we're going to Google, which there are many: « Rigau attributes to immigrant students the stagnation to PISA, which is what I said to my intervention. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.220.0	Mrs. Sierra, you just made another hint. Don't stop. Mrs. Rigau, I own you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.221.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...with no desire for controversy. Don't conjure up... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] - No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.222.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.223.0	It can't be confused...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.224.0	...respect the vortex of words, which here seems to me to have been respected by everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.225.0	It is not possible to confuse multilingualism, which means the presence of languages in the centre, with the normally used vehicle language. This is written to the Education Law, textually, and it's good to go over. And the rest, don't give me the headlines, it's just the joint I'm saying. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.226.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Well, finally, we're going to vote. [[María José García Cuevas asks to speak.]] Mrs. Garcia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.227.0	For contradictions. The... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.228.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.229.0	...is that... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.230.0	They didn't mention him. That I know, you haven't been greeted, Congresswoman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And you spoke before. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You've already intervened before, it seems. I can't intervene again. Mrs. Rigau was returned to speak personally, so I gave her two seconds. It wasn't like that with you. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.231.0	To ask for a separate vote. [[The speaker laughed at the applause.]] To ask for separate vote from point 2, 2.c, and e, and also from f. Next, they can group together... [[relays]] , points 2.c, and e, and f can be grouped together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.232.0	2.c, 2.i and 2.i, i, and f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.233.0	Point two, huh? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] I hope, I hope. Yes, yes, yes... no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.234.0	Now we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.235.0	It's just... a moment. That they were from the third. I'll tell them again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.236.0	Is it starting again?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.237.0	I'm telling you again, it's point 2. and.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.238.0	Two and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.239.0	...and I'm not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.240.0	...and 2.i.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.241.0	I, okay? [[Pause.]] And then, point 3, points and f. Now I am.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.242.0	They're already out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.243.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.244.0	I rehearsed it. You see, we've been asked to vote separately from points 1, 2.c, 2.e, 2.i, 3.d, 3.e, 3.f. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, we're doing this vote. If it looks like it, let's get started. We vote them separately, because they did tell me first... I don't know if anyone can group? [[Pause.]] Can anyone group? [[Pause. Funeral veils]] Is it the same? [[Pause.]] So, go. If we seem to start voting point 1. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 119 votes to 10. Next, we'll vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. Point 2.c_was approved by 107 votes to 23, with 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2. The vote begins. Point 2.e_is approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for 2. The vote begins. Point 2.i_is approved by 107 votes in favour, against and 23 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 3.d. The vote begins. The 3.d_point was approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 3. The vote begins. Point 3.e_e was approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 3.f. The vote begins. Point 3.f was approved by 97 votes to 23, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on educational segregation was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into railway infrastructure]] [[302-00076/11]] The next point, the twenty-one point of the order of the day, is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on railway infrastructure, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, she has the word Marina Bravo. [[Widow's remorse.]] Ask them to leave in a hurry, please. Please, just get out. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.245.0	Thank you, President. Members, councillors, councillors, the object of this motion was to show what we propose to be done to improve the rail transport of Catalonia, apart from victimism, that we already know that it is doing very well. We wanted to put on the table what is being done, if it goes well, if it goes wrong, and bring some proposals for things that we believe are not done and could be done. We have already repeated several times what we believe should be done in this regard. Firstly, take advantage of all the skills we have, which we believe some are not taking full advantage of. Secondly, to ask for responsibilities, in this case to Adif and the Ministry of Development above all that they do wrong; to negotiate the improvements that are needed, but not leaving us alone in the complaint of comparative aggravations or in the dance of figures or in the third additional provision, but to ask for results with arguments, with loyalty; that is what we need; also demanding maintenance, although it does not allow to inaugurate anything or to put on medals, but it has very good results. In all these negotiations, we will support them. And thirdly – this deserves a greater effort – is to coordinate and cooperate and fight for the common goal, which is to give better service to citizens. Because that is the objective of the Government of Spain and that must be the objective of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, and in that we must work together. But it's difficult, because a few weeks ago he was claiming that he was going to do a great act for the Rodalies, that's fine; but in today's invitation, brought to us by the president, already the invitation is « a l'acte per vinquer la transpàs integrare de Rodalies to the Government of Catalonia. And let me tell you that it is difficult, it is difficult for those who go to Madrid to ask to break the infrastructure network that connects us, so whoever negotiates the best investments, the best improvements for that infrastructure that we have here. Every minute they lose in seeking confrontation, in seeking conflict, they don't dedicate it to working, to seeing what could be done best. And we bring you here a few proposals. The Generalitat can and should plan its infrastructure well. On the one hand, planning good, which is fundamental – now we will see why – and also managing good. It is said here that billions have been spent on railway infrastructure, but the truth is that the network has grown very little, much less than in other autonomous communities or in other regions where similar figures have been invested; the 9_de_metro line – you know what we are talking about – many billions for quite small growth. We have to prioritize, and it is difficult, because it forces you to say what you are going to do and also what you are not going to do in a period of time. That is very difficult and we understand it, but it is the only thing that allows the decisions to be made to be the right ones; it is the only thing that allows what is chosen to be exactly what needs to be done. And that is why we hope that they will agree to define that investment plan that we are asking for for five years, to know specifically what we are going to do, to make it clear that what we are choosing is the best thing, not to be moved by other issues, electoralists or otherwise. We also hope that they will approve the improvements in the traveler's information, so that, if we are on the platform of Plaza Catalunya, as I was the other day, there is a plane on which we have the scheme, that the other day there was not, and it is not there because we have not put it here, because the Generalitat has not put it, it does not depend on anyone else. We also hope that they will approve the planning of the trains we will need; the trains will not be put on from one day to the next. And we hope it will be approved because it is your responsibility, even if you ever deny it. Here is working Renfe, who is dependent on the Ministry of Development, but works for you; you decide which trains are put here. And you need to plan them, you can't put them from one day to another. For example, right now, we don't tell the gentlemen of Tortosa if they are going to come through Tarragona city or Camp de Tarragona. It is a difficult decision, too; to content one or the other, less; a consensus solution will have to be sought. And by avoiding this conflict, so much that they seek it elsewhere, we do not decide which trains we need the day they are needed will not be. The trains take a long time to arrive, you know, they just bought for the Vallés line. It is very important to plan as soon as possible to be able to load the trains as soon as possible, so that they can be the day we need them, and that is not being done. That I'm running out of time. Well, as far as infrastructure is concerned, we're not going to stop recognizing that he has a lot of problems. Security measures have increased, trains are slowing down, that's hard to understand. And it is true that the Ministry of Development and Adif sometimes does not seem to take away their sleep, and to us it does; to us it does take away it. So, apart from asking this here today, tomorrow we will go to Congress with, too, a few requests for what we think should be done there, which are more than we bring here, I say. Because, although this Government of the Generalitat has renounced the dialogue, we are not going to do it, because the runaways of Catalonia still today with all their problems carry more than 400,000 travelers daily and all those travelers need someone to watch over their improvements, someone to solve their problems doing everything they can here and negotiating all the improvements that are due in Madrid. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.246.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.247.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, what does the Statute say? The Statute states that Catalonia has exclusive powers over transport infrastructure in Catalonia that has no general interest qualification. The Statute also indicates the participation of the Government of the Government in the participation and management of state-owned infrastructure. I'm telling you this because there's so much going on here and there, or there and here, it's like the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State oblivion that there's a constitutional law making them and giving them instruments, both governments, to find solutions to problems. That was the sense of our concern, which was not accepted by the proposing group, even though we would vote in favour of the motion, huh? So it's a compendium of good intentions, and so we can't disagree with it, can we? But what's left is to solve the problems that, in fact, are there, huh? That is to say, what it is to face is how we face these problems and the needs of the conventional railway network in Catalonia, especially the rolling stock and the regional ones, because there are no problems, right? ; I just have to take the train every day to realize that this is a reality. Before Congresswoman Marina Bravo spoke of the 400,000 users who use the train every day and who are found, especially at peak hours, with problems. I'll talk about this later, won't I? And we believe that solutions must be, together, coordinated between the Government of the Generality and the State. I think it should be time, it should be time to pass the page of the constant waste disposal, the lack of dialog, the lack of communication and the lack of coordination. And here who has the primary responsibility, let's just say, is, beyond the claims made by Councilman Rull all too often, the Central Administration, the Central Government, Adif, right? , which has not just completed those agreements to which the minister of Foment up with the councillor returns and which after that to execute, which is Adif, does not feel represented by what his own minister says, is not? Among other things because the infrastructure manager is Adif. There are constant incompliments of the reversal announcements made. The management of Rodalies, of all ways, councillor, and Regionals is of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, eh? , who sets the times, the unit of the trains... Miri, this morning he was going down to the train of eight and thirteen, Granollers Centre, and I have to tell him, huh? That today's one unit less than yesterday's, and that the users we've used on this train... that's to say, the sardines went further than the users we've brought down on this train today. This is the responsibility of your government, to control that this works. Who has renewed the concession to Renfe, which is the one operating the line, is the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Don't tell me you don't, Counselor, 'cause that's it. Another thing is that you didn't want to open another paste here, another melo, but the responsibility is for your government. Congestion. Let's just say: we can fix and fix the maintenance of the infrastructure, improve the senyalization, improve the security, even if we can renew the units, which in hours points the trains more united, but we know that congestion, especially at the roundabout of Barcelona, will continue to exist, although all these things are done. Because here we have a problem, which is the third tunnel. I solemnly, from this Faristol, on behalf of my parliamentary group, commit myself, counselor..., that you lead this issue and my parliamentary group will not create as many problems as you created when it was necessary to make the high-speed tunnel for the centre of Barcelona. But you know as well as I do that the problem of rail congestion is the lack of penetration... of access to cross the city from one side to the other. Therefore, I demand that you begin to lead, with all these things that you lead, as well as the claim of a third rail tunnel in Barcelona, and will have our recovery. And finally, in these six-seconds that remain: look and study the German railway model, which is a federal model of relationship between the Central Administration of Germany and the lands.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.248.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.249.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, we thank Mrs. Navy Bravo, except she's an expert and it's always a pleasure to be able to talk to her and learn 'n, which this young man has presented. What's going on is that this young man who ends up showing off another time is that we're hooked up sometimes in debates where we have little margin. That's what I'm saying because we have to make a first general reflection: we do have the generality, but there's a theme, and it's that the ownership of the infrastructure, the operator, ends up in Fomento, and that here there are some hardships, some deficiencies, a lack of investments proven years ago that condition us a lot and a lot. Therefore, I'm sorry..., explains the last report the syndic made of the complaints of the different plataforms. And that's it, whether we like it or not. Now in Terrades he was talking about the third tunnel, but it's that the third tunnel, or the station of the Sagrera, that would mark... would be a use that would determine a lot, for example, all the trains coming from the north..., and it could solve..., right? Or the unfolding of single-way trams to R3 and R7. It's like, a whole series of questions... that what we need I think they're... And here we do need a state pact, or between states, it's the same, but a long-term pact that all political forces... And that's what we say many times, the spokesman of Territori, we also say on the reels: that we agree and say from here to two years – because the works can't be done in a pim-pam, nor the trains – which works are priorities, which we need and which is calendaring. In this sense, for example, point 1 of the motion is interesting, because it says: "Well, let's look at long term solutions for the col·lapse we have, which, of course, we do not agree very much, perhaps, that we are going to widen. Maybe it'll have to be done. We believe that there are other measures first, such as increasing frequencies or linking the topic to Renfe Vallès. I say point one, huh? , the one that makes reference to Ferrocarrils. But what is clear is that we need to reach agreements, agreements on infrastructure transfer, creation of consortia... Now we have the act this week we're going to the week you're going to. So, well, that's fine, that we ask for the transfer of infrastructure, all that affect Catalonia, but, above all, counselor..., of course, if they pass them, with all the work we have pending, we have a brown. So, if we don't get the money, or if we don't have the finance and a work arrangement, I don't know if it's okay for us to get the money. This is an issue I was interested in doing at the general level. Now, in concrete terms, coming into office, we appreciate the fact that 'nshagin' has been incorporated. Point 2 hasn't incorporated any of our stuff, but we're also glad it's coming along. For one reason: because this famous report on line 9, the Barcelona Assembly tells me that it has been a long time since I asked you. And, therefore, they should be very happy that we are delivering it to Parliament, and we will get it to them, or I imagine you too. In point 3, we have found it necessary to incorporate in it many of the requests made by the Platform Trains Dignified Lands of the Ebre - Priorat. And here's the same demand that I think I've been doing since I joined this Parliament in 2010, right? , which is always this meddling to the south as regards the replacement of trains, which was replaced, for example, by Girona and not here. Well, let's just say there's an urgent need to replace these Tarragona Camp lines and the Ebre Lands. In point 4, we also appreciate that two points have been incorporated, above all: the concrete planning of the duplication of line 3, which seems very important to us, and to make the extension to terminal 1 of the airport compatible with the Pla de Rodalies and to analyze the viability of the extension of this line to Gava. The others, too, that we've traded..., well. And now, where I stand, the two points that have not been approved and that I would like to comment briefly, that is the point of pulling back what..., since August 5th the modification of the times that was made, that increases eight minutes..., and that is not the solution. I know that the Dignity Train Platform has met with you several times, counselor. I know that you have done things and improved questions to the Lands of the Hebrews, such as putting the new train to Tortosa, making express return, this from the Euromed stop. But this point really interested us, because what was done to solve..., conditioned, right? While working hard and conditioned to the workers of the entrance to Barcelona, it causes them harm, because I do not solve the problem, and now there are delays on these delays. So maybe we should look for a solution. And the other – and I finish, President – is the theme 4, which is the reference to ATMs. Speaking to the Deputy of Junts for the Yes, he said to me: "No, we don't do this about the ATM of the Lands of the Jews, because there will be T-Mobility. But I understand that there are two different questions. T-Mobility is a technological support of tariff management and, in change, the ATM, while we do not have developed the Law 21/2015, of financing of transport, and we do not have fully developed the system of integration, I believe it is a fair claim of the Lands of the Jews. Because they say, "Okay, all right, that's T-Mobility. But why is it up to us? The others have already had ATMs. So, I think we should try to get there...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.250.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.251.0	...to a solution with the people of the Ebre Lands. Thank you – thank you –, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.252.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.253.0	President... Counsellor, Members of Parliament, I now announce to the proposer that the motion will have the support of the People's Group. And, moreover, it allows us to talk about some breaches, or nyaps, of the Generalitat of Catalonia, because many times reference is made to the government of the State, and we must do, therefore, what some comment, remember the historical memory. We can agree that enhancing public transport is essential in order to achieve environmentally sustainable mobility and that it is a real alternative to private transport. Without a good connection between the different offers of collective transport and without easy access interchanges this is not possible. And that's true. But in order to manage good connections between the different public transport offers, good collaboration and relationship between the different administrations: the local, the autonomous and the state are essential. And, therefore, the criticisms – often, not always, unjust and interested – of the independence world towards state investments do not help that relationship to be fluid and easy. And then I'll give you some data as a sample. But let's start with Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya, which is true that they do a good service in times and frequencies, but it is also true, as Mrs...., of the PSC, that some improvements would have to be made at some very specific time frequencies. But we'll talk about a frustrated and forgotten promise, important. One. Do you remember the famous exchanger that had to be made in Glorias? Do You Remember? A Generalitat Railway Interchanger, metro and bus line. And from night to morning he disappeared from all the urban plans. Do you imagine that it would have happened if the Spanish Government had suppressed a project like this overnight? But, of course, it is done by the Government of the Generalitat and nothing happens here. They complain about Rodalies' failures. Obviously, quite rightly, many times. I'm not saying no. But, for example, we have that Barcelona tram in 2015 has had forty_and seven accidents. I mean, almost four accidents a month. And nothing's going on here either. Therefore, one of the amendments we have tabled refers to the programming of the Railways of the Generalitat in its service of Plaza Spain - Gracia, so that it is not, once again, an endless and renewable proposed in each election campaign, as passed with the 9_de_metro line. You say that they will be launched by 2020. Well, at your own pace it'll probably be 2030, 2035 or 2040. And, by the way, speaking of line 9, already knows the non-compliance caused by the frustration that has caused between the neighbors of the neighborhood of the Franc Zone, who see how there are ghost stations, as the metro passes, and the users and neighbors of the Franc Zone cannot use them, knowing the serious problems of connection that this neighborhood has with the rest of the city of Barcelona. On the service of Rodalies de la Generalitat, we would agree that we must define the present and future needs for the whole territory, with a special sensitivity in what refers to the scope of the Camp de Tarragona and the Terres de l'Ebre, but also, as our amendment said, to the needs of Girona and Lleida, that he did not mention the motion. But it would also be good to study the cost-effectiveness of using the Lleida line - the Pobla, and also the use at each stop of this line. Because in 2015 one of his stops had only nine passengers throughout the year. That is, quite a success in the relationship in terms of supply/demand. Quite a success. But the motion refers to some investments that the Government of Spain would have to make, but it is already making. And for that I will give you a brief review of what is being done, even though the political-media-nationalist network always tries to hide it. For example, something that calls for the motion and is already underway: 132_million_de_euros are dedicated to the adaptation and improvement of 120 trains; improvement in the accessibility of 10 stations; planned, another 40; installation and signage ERTMS between l'Hospitalet and Mataró to improve the reliability of the transit through the interior of Barcelona. Under new construction, we have rail access to the two terminals of Prat airport; two new lines between Vandellòs and Tarragona, which will end in early 2017 and will solve the problems of the line that connects Tortosa with Barcelona, and will also be part of the Mediterranean corridor. All this adds up, much more, to EUR 500_million, apart from what is being invested in the Mediterranean Corridor. Yes, real investments will be needed, not on the Generalitat's level, which we are already accustomed to. If in the end we all work in the same direction, recognizing in positive way what each Administration does, the first beneficiary will be no political party, but will see how truly important we are all Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.254.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Lord Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.255.0	Thank you, President. Let's go back to being here talking about trains. And that, let's say, for one band we're happy, because it's really a very important issue, and for another band, and as Congresswoman Hortênsia Grau said, we're saddened, because we can't decide everything that we're talking about here and that we're willing to fix. And so whenever we talk about trains and we talk about railways, we barely talk about problems, because we have, unfortunately, the state of the infrastructure we have and we have the service we have. We haven't talked many times about the R15, the R16, we've talked about the R3, we've talked about... and, in fact, several Members who spoke before you mentioned some of the problems today. And, unfortunately, we'll be here talking about trains again and we'll be here again without being able to offer the solutions that the citizenry expects. Because despite the fact that it is said that, effectively, the contract with Renfe and so on... this is still paid for by the State and this is still the competence of the State. And, therefore, what we want to do is take on these parts of competence. Like, by the way, the generality did. For example, with the first non-radial line in Barcelona, the R8. Initiative of the Generalitat. For example, before this disaster of the R15 and the R16 that we have talked about so many times, starting in November, the Euromed made itself at the station of the Village, assuming the cost of the Generality, moreover, in order to be able to donate a train service worthy of the people of the Lands of the Ebro who need to use it to bid in Barcelona. Therefore, the will of the Generality and the Government of Catalonia is absolutely all there to try to improve these problems. What's the result we've got? So we don't have the skills. And, on the other side of the scale, I think it's the good experiences we have. For example, Railways of the Generality to Terrassa; one year, this summer, July, from the entry into operation of the nine stations: demand increase of 50_per_cent. That is to say, when there are investments, when we have total skills in the provision of the railway service, we show that they work, that they work well and that, moreover, they are capable of generating demand and, therefore, of taking passengers to private transport, and, therefore, with all that implies, environmental, etcetera, right? Therefore, when we are the ones who have the skills to be able to decide about, say, the whole aspect of the railway network – infrastructure, trains, timetables, everything – the service works. And this I think is accredited from the punctuality of the railways, from the very satisfaction of the users, right? They have no right whatsoever to see when the service provided by Renfe or when it provides, say, the Railways of the Generality. And, of course, let's get back to the same problem we've always had, which is: Barcelona Roller Plate, 2008-2015, €4,000_million, executed a 10_per_cent. Clearly, then we don't have to be surprised. And today, here, we approve, and we give support, this young man, right? But that's what I was already predicting, not just 2008, that's what I was predicting earlier, and it didn't happen. And, like everything else, in the investments the Spanish State says it will do, that's not up. Because we could talk about the R3, we could talk about the unfolding until Malgrat, we could talk about the hospital tunnel, which certainly went out and which was also included in the rolling block and which was neither executed nor done. And they are necessary investments, which they need, with the country, to be able to do. And, of course, then we stop and look at 2016, and not because we are still independent and all very painful and the guilt as much day as night is from Madrid, that this, here in Parliament, we feel it all too often, right? But, of course, the Ministry of History and Public Administration, of Madrid, people suspected of being very sympathetic to Junts for the Yes; of course, therefore, with their own inversion data of the year 2016, gener-juny, is to say, this first half of the year, the planned investments, for example, in high speed, are of 16.7_per_cent; the investments in infrastructure and Adif stations are of 20_per_cent, is to say, 80_per_cent does not run; or in Renfe, which is the most clamorous case, 2_per_cent. But that's not what we say, is it? , this is said by the Ministry of Public Affairs and Public Administration. Therefore, what suits us, say, is to resolve this situation. And I deny you, Mrs. Marina Bravo, to say the least, because of the scale you see. No, no, no, no, it's that the conflict has the people who leave it lying in the middle of the station at the Children's Hospital and they will take it from the train; the conflict has the person who goes to university and not up to class because the train never passes; the conflict has the people who try to get to work at the time they correspond and arrive systematically late; the conflict has the users. We, conflict with the State, do not want to have it. It's more like, I'd like to, as I often talk about trains in this Parliament, stop making the angry song. If I don't want to complain more! I want to fix the problems! If the conflict has the people, we don't want to have it with the State, we don't want to have it with any other Administration. We want to resolve the conflicts. And that's why the way to stop having these conflicts and to complain to us is just to be able to do as with Railways, it's just to be able to hold control over all the infrastructure and everything that includes railway infrastructure and to provide, at once, a service worthy of the citizenry and the country, which is what we need. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.256.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.257.0	All right. Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. This motion by the Citizen Parliamentary Group seems interesting because it addresses a problem that affects thousands of citizens every day, and which, moreover, addresses it from a rather complete and comprehensive point of view. While it would still be more desirable for us to review the 2006-2026 Transport Infrastructure Plan from a strategic point of view, and this motion does not address it very deeply, it does raise questions related to the state and capacity of the network, of the trains, the different stations, and an interesting question, such as the audience of these great projects and infrastructures, which is almost never done, and in this case concrete, therefore, arises to be done on the L9 and the L10. Therefore, we will give support to all those points of the motion that depend entirely on the Generality, therefore, the points that make reference to Railways of the Generality, with this detailed audit at L9 and L10, to all that affects Rodales de Catalunya, which according to the current program contracts with Renfe according to the Generality. But on the other hand, we will abstain from a series of points that depend on the State. We have made a series of statements, which I will not explain, and as they have not been taken into consideration, so we cannot vote in favour of them, but we cannot vote against all that is, therefore, continue to ask Madrid that it is better all that is to be asked. But let's face it, it's not that we abstain because we don't agree with everything they put up these points, that we already agree, right? But why do we understand that there's enough time to keep asking and continuing Madrid that you do things, because so much the Ministry of Development as Adif, if we've been bullied twice, today it's a bull's day, huh? So, with two political agreements. In other words, here the Socialist Group was saying: "No, relations need to be improved, right? , bilateral between Catalonia and the State. No, no; if there were already two political agreements and we have tore up twice, with Councilman Vila and currently with Councilman Rull, right? That is to say, Adif, the State, we could say, resign from its functions of public interest, of general interest, and therefore this for us is unacceptable. And, besides, we see no point in continuing to ask Madrid for things as was the case now with Deputy Gerard, who has been more than two years, who has been scheduled for more than fifteen years, who has to be done and who is not a fan. And we can keep asking for the times you want, I mean, that's why we won't get tired, but we think it's a time to face this issue, because it's because – the reality – there's a bunch of citizens who do this every day. And here you can go approving thousands and thousands of resolutions, and yes, and it's very good, and we say, "We've approved this and we're going to Madrid to... very good. But we need to take some concrete and courageous steps. And we have put in place some actions, say, that are on course that from the Generality..., from the Parliament to the Government of the Generality, that negotiate from you to you transfer it from the full powers over the joint railway network. And there's not enough of this, because this negotiation could also be extended in time. We go further and plant that if, at the end of a year, we pose by chance, this transition has not occurred, therefore, to establish all the legislative mechanisms necessary to proceed to a forced expropriation of the entire network and of all that implies from this infrastructure because the State has ceased to lend, has resigned from its functions to provide a general interest. And the citizens of Catalonia what they deserve is a secure and dignified railway network. And as we have not accepted this, so we shall vote separately, which I now announce, Madam President, of points 3.2, 3.3 and 4, which can be voted together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.258.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.259.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. To give my opinion on the amendments, it is not so much what to say; if it is to give my opinion on what has just been said, there are quite a few more things. On the amendments, thank you..., have been many and many quite constructive, so they have been added. What the Socialist Group was saying to us, which had not been accepted, and which compared it to how infrastructure was managed in Germany, is that it is not exactly the same as it proposes. It says here that we discriminate which infrastructures are not in the general interest of the State. For me, infrastructure that is not in the general interest of the State can be managed directly from the Autonomous Communities, but completely, no consortium is needed, nothing is needed; regional mobility can be managed by the Autonomous Communities, there is no problem. It is in debate, for example, the Cornella line..., this whole line. It could be done, could be done by the Generalitat rather than by the state; I have no inconvenience in that the lines they have..., which refer to regional mobility are taken from here. That is their proposal. In Germany this is not exactly what it is. In Germany what happens, that the network is all ownership of the state, that the autonomous communities participate in the decisions of the actions that are made and collaborate in the expenditure and in the decisions. We don't have a problem with that either. It is true that with the situation of dialogue that is now very complicated, there is very little time. About all the comments that Junts' partner has said about Yes. Well, to say that you have commented on some examples, the R8, which seems phenomenal to us; that they can and can continue to do so. That the Euromed stops in La Aldea is an example that with dialogue things can be achieved. In the end, the Euromed... – with dialogue and money, of course, things are achieved. Another example he has put..., well, I don't know..., that, that the Euromed stops in La Aldea : it is a train that manages the Ministry of Development and they have asked, they have negotiated, they have explained the needs and they have reached some agreement. Examples, cases like these can always be done, but the urgency and supremacism that if you manage it will be better managed, when the separation itself already has many drawbacks, makes no sense. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.260.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Member, I have indicated that you have asked for separate votes from points 3.2, 3.3 and 4, and that you can vote together. Yeah, if there's no problem, we'll do it that way. [[Long break.]] A separate vote has been requested on points 3.2, 3.3 and 4, which can be voted together. If you don't mind, we'll start by voting these three points together and then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's start the vote by voting together points 3.2, 3.3 and 4. The vote begins. Points 3.2, 3.3 and 4 were approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on railway infrastructure was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into security policy]] [[302-00077/11]] The twenty-two point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on the policy of security, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr. Alberto Villagrasa. [[Widow's remorse.]] MPs and MPs, please ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence. [[Pause.]] Quiet, and please. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.261.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, to begin my speech, I would like to refer to something that happened in this Chamber last Tuesday, because there is some group that insists on disregarding the name of the Mossos d'Esquadra, on continuing to insinuate that their actions are based on torture; a genuine barbarity. And from the People's Group we not only recognize the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra, but we also want to recognize the dignity of this police force. The motion that we are presenting from the People's Group tries to give a way to the lack of troops that we have in the Mossos d'Esquadra of Catalonia, lack of troops that comes because there have been no new promotions of police in recent years, it is true, but also because of the continuous loss of troops for retirements, casualties, transfers to other bodies, surpluses, deaths, etc.. Improving the number of police officers and trying to maximize the resources and support of the rest of the police forces is essential to improving both the service to the citizen and the performance of our agents. That is why the first point of the motion, and certainly the most important one, is intended, whether there are budgets or not, to safeguard the promotion of five hundred new police officers, either through the budget or through a modification of credit. Security needs, both in the area of citizen security and in the fight against terrorism, make security and prevention policies in Catalonia and the rest of Spain a priority for all administrations, and to meet and respond to these challenges it is necessary to have sufficient police forces. We also referred in the motion to other measures, such as the creation of an inter-administrative competition, which some representatives of other groups said would not have a great result – it could be – but, with this inter-administrative competition, be seventy, fifty or twenty new police officers, already prepared, those who joined the Mossos d'Esquadra..., would surely be welcome in the face of the shortage we have of troops. Other measures that we propose are to exit the second activity, to carry out the sub-catalogue, the catalogue of jobs, doing services related to the security, prevention service, in which no physical effort is needed; for example, control of access to public buildings, the reception of complaints, which are services that do not need to be performed by a police officer in the first activity and that may be on the street reinforcing the public security service. We also propose a stock exchange of overtime, as many unions are claiming, so that we can cover slots in territories and hours that have gaps in service. But in this motion, above all, we also attach great importance to the role and collaboration with the local police, and we do so with two very concrete proposals. One is to be able to create new joint coordination rooms between Mossos d'Esquadra and local police in the provincial capitals in municipalities of more than one hundred_ thousand inhabitants. In the end, proximity and sharing of space can improve the coordination of security bodies and at the same time maximize material and human resources in the reception of information and in the service. And the other proposal is that both police forces, in their respective municipalities, can share functions; such as, for example, the important one, of citizen security; the fight against the top blanket, or, for example, the work against incivism. If we say that there is a shortage of troops, let us make our police share these functions, that their work is more profitable and coordinated, and in this way we truly believe what the Catalan Police is, that it is composed by the different bodies of the local police and Mossos d'Esquadra, and not that in the end it is a mere holder and that then it has no real effectiveness. I did not want to end without thanking the willingness to reach agreements of the representatives of Junts pel Si, Ciutadans and the Socialist Group – Mr Carles Castillo, Mrs Montse Fornells and Carlos Sánchez – who, despite some legitimate discrepancy at some point in particular, the truth is that the will to reach agreements on this motion and try to improve the situation of the Mossos d'Esquadra by those groups and the People's Group has always been on the table. And at least I wanted to thank him and publicly recognize him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.262.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, he has the word, to defend the papers presented, Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.263.0	Very nice late. Companies and fellow MPs, councillor, the motion we have on the table has the aim of improving the staffing situation, the lack of staff of Mossos d'Esquadra, improving coordination between Mossos d'Esquadra and local police and convening the Board of Security of Catalonia. We agree that there is a lot of way to go about these two security-related issues, the coordination between Squad Mosses and local police, and the lack of Squad Mosses staff. We've put forward some ideas that we thought would clarify the meaning of what it was asking for. The truth is that, as Villagrasa said, they have been taken into account almost in their totality, so I announce that we will vote in favour of the motion presented. Ladies and gentlemen, the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's got a tough staffing problem. The deployment plan xifra in 18,200 the necessary moves, and according to the advice data we are currently in a xifra close to 16,800; that is, a deficit of 1,400 squadron moves, 1,400 agents. Here I am allowed a little clarification, and it is that we have asked, through one of the points I give them, which has been accepted, that the object to acquit is marked at 19,000, instead of the 18,200 I have told you before. Why did we want to change the height of this box? So, of course, from a band to push the degree of ambition, that we think it's perfectly legitimate, but above all to skip the trap that sets us the Department of Interior in the data that gives us the current number of moves. What do you mean, MPs and MPs, with this cheating? So, that the department, in its 16800 xifra that says that there is at present, is counting second activities, excesses and people that in reality are not giving a security service, let's just say. So then we can't mark the target at 18,200, if they're counting those effects that don't exist in reality. That's why we decided to propose the xifra of 19,000, because it seems more realistic and more in line with the real needs of the Catalan society and the body. And what else is going on with the staffing increases? So that a hypothetical increase in staffing that we approve today, that we approve today itself, will not have an impact on reality until October or November of the year that sees, of 2017, and that is very optimistic. So, in parallel with the increase in staffing, we need to look for alternatives that will help to alleviate the problems faced by the security professionals in Catalonia in order to do their job in terms of conditions. That's why we think it's a good idea to facilitate the incorporation of effects, already formats, of other things, even though we're not fooling ourselves, that's done other times and didn't have the expected result either. And we also believe that a good idea is to create a bag of foreign currency. And also take full advantage of the police tasks that people of the second activity can still afford. By the way, what's going on with this government with second-rate people? They could explain it, too. Regarding the coordination between Squad Mossos and local police. Look, what we're actually asking for is the same thing the Generality is asking for, Squads, very legitimately, with the police, with the rest of the bodies and security forces of the State: sharing information and sharing databases. So hard is it to do with consistency what the Generalitat, Mossos d'Esquadra, asks for the National Police and the Civil Guard..., do with the local police as well? We don't think it's that hard and we think there's a lot of way to go. We started, too, asking for the withdrawal of the point where we were talking about the creation of coordination centres, because we didn't think it was getting along enough. And the ponent has agreed to clarify it in the sense of going on the line of the joint command room that already exists in Barcelona. Perfect. We agree that they do and that they do in agreement with the assemblies. And we've also asked that he stick to making the arrangements between Squad and local cops complete, because, to the band to review them, we know that there's not much good, and the problem is not to review them, but they come out of the cove where they're staying and they're filling in. And respect to the Board of Security of Catalonia – I finish, President –, absolutely recurring theme, allow me only to donate a given solo, and I finish: the last time the Board of Security of Catalonia met was chaired by the company and President José Montilla. I don't think I should tell them anything else, do I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.264.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Montserrat Fornells, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.265.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good afternoon to everyone. We are here to debate, again, a motion on security policies, to talk about issues and questions that have already been discussed extensively and on various occasions in this House and in the Committee on the Interior. The Security Board has not met since the year 2009 and, therefore, the number of autonomous police bills that have been deployed since then has not been certified, with which the current import for this concept has not been cleared and there is a very high accumulated debt; money with which could be called more seats of Mossos d'Esquadra, for example. It's all about volunteering, because if one doesn't want to, two don't get together. Last May, we already approved a motion from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot where we asked that the Security Board meet, asked that Councillor Jané has made on various occasions. At that time, the state government said they couldn't summon her because they were working and they would do it after the June 26 elections. We're 20 October, and the government's still working, and it hasn't moved on. I said that in the plenary of May, and I repeat: gentlemen of the PP, security cannot work. And, as it turns out, and for which we can prove very often, the Government of the State is not working to bring to justice any agreement or initiative that arises from this Parliament or the Government of Catalonia. In point 1 of the motion we agree that there is already the government's commitment to convene nine squadron moves. In fact, it was announced at the previous general policy debate by the President. Now it is only necessary to have the tool in order to be able to execute it; it is to say, only the assumptions for 2017 need to be approved. Point 2 reject. In its moment it has already been hard in the end with the aim of promoting the family relationship and bonds in a context of substitution of the cos– context that we do not have now. All the places they offered were not complete... they were not complete with expectations. That is to say, in practice, the agents who requested the transfer were few, and, on the other hand, the cost of the call was considerable. And, moreover, the current labour market, regrettably, with a high profile among young people, and the fact that more than five years ago there was no call – since 2011, the last one – provide enough human resources to be able to cover future calls. For what it does at point 3, we accept it after admitting our message because we are studying the viability of providing the Police Directorate General with an extraordinary bag of hours. From point 4, we're in favour because we need to draw up a catalogue of second job places for the agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. In fact, some of the department is already working hard to finish it. For what it does at point 5, to create nine joint co-ordination rooms between the Mossos Cos and the local police, we believe that it is harmful for the proper functioning of the Resource Distribution Model of the Mossos d'Esquadra and its territorial deployment. First, because the police coordination rooms, in general sense, are already created; second, because the joint rooms of the cosmos Mosos d'Esquadra and local polices are planned for exceptional themes or circumstances; moreover, this fact would entail the modification of the salts that are already in operation, an unnecessary expense of resources and a new redistribution of effects to the detriment of the citizen security service and other priorities in the matter of security. The implementation of this proposed model does not guarantee an absolute improvement in co-ordination between bodies. What needs to be done is to boost existing resources, as established by Law 4/2003 of the Public Security System, such as the months of operational coordination and local security assemblies. In this area it is necessary to analyse whether there is any lack of coordination between bodies and to make individual proposals adapted to the needs of each municipality. For what it does at point 6, whether or not to review the agreements between Mossos d'Esquadra and local police, whether it is necessary to do so, this modification or revision of the agreements, is done. And, for what he does to the functioning of local security assemblies, to say that these work properly and in many of them he attends, the Interior Councillor presides over them. Finally, for what it does to point number 7, which is the addition of a Ciutadans theme, to ask to hold the Security Board, I have already given the explanations previously of why this has not been completed. Commenting also that in the past general policy debate there have already been different resolutions in this sense. Throughout the presentation, our group calls for a separate vote on points 2 and 5. Thank you very much, and very late everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.266.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position, has the word Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry – I'm sorry – I'm wrong; I'm wrong, they've submitted papers, the Ciutadans Group – I'm sorry. The words of Mr. Carlos Sánchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.267.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, Members, Members..., first of all I would like to thank the Member of the PP, Mr Villagrasa, who has accepted some of our amendments. From Citizens we believe that they improve and enrich the motion presented. Look, from Citizens we have been and will be next to the Mossos d'Esquadra and the rest of the security forces and bodies. This is proof of the innumerable initiatives we have put forward since we have been represented in this Parliament. I, who am now a Member of Parliament, have been a police officer for ten years at the service of the citizen, and I am proud to defend these amendments now. Good. This motion can be divided into two large blocs: the first, the lack of troops and the different police regions, and the second, the lack of coordination between the different forces and security forces operating in Catalonia. Both issues have been called for on several occasions since Citizens, but in some cases they have not come forward and in others, the councillor has not done the work expected. In any case, and for that reason, I would like to announce to you that, although some of our amendments remain in place, we will vote in favour of this motion from Citizens. With the excuse of the crisis and the lack of budget, five years ago – five years – that no squares of Mossos d'Esquadra are called. From Citizens we believe it is a matter of priorities. We are convinced that we must invest in health, in social policies, in education and, of course, in security, rather than in state structures. On our amendments, in addition to its proposal to convene 500 new places, we propose to increase the number of active Mossos d'Esquadra places from 18,000 to 19,000, as we believe it would be the right number of police officers to guarantee security in Catalonia. The latter has been accepted by you, although we regret that you have not committed yourselves to ensuring an annual budget line that will keep those nineteen_ thousand effective. On the romanent, that is, those extra hours that accumulate the mossos for their work quadrants, we believe that they should not devote themselves to covering casualties or the lack of troops. We believe that they should devote themselves solely and exclusively to the training of the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. With regard to coordination, we believe that it is necessary for the Government to promote, together with the municipalities, the meetings of the local security boards in those consistories where they are not doing so, as it is the basic coordination tool between Mossos d'Esquadra and local police. And to this day this coordination in some cases is non-existent. And last but not least, we have added an amendment on the great outstanding subject of the coordination of security forces and bodies operating in Catalonia, the Catalan Security Board. From Citizens we believe that it is very, very urgent that once and for all the Security Board of Catalonia meets. Look, in an autonomous community where four security forces work simultaneously, such as the National Police, the Civil Guard, the local police and the Mossos d'Esquadra, it is intolerable that it has been so many years since its largest coordinating body was assembled. And the fault of this is so much the gentlemen of Convergence, who have been governing Catalonia for more than thirty years, as the gentlemen who have presented this motion, the gentlemen of the PP, who have been with an absolute majority in the Government of Spain for four years and have been totally unable to convene this meeting. You and only you are responsible for not meeting the Catalan Security Board. I remind you that we are at level 4 by jihadist threat, and police coordination, today more than ever, is vital. So from Citizens we demand that they stop making excuses, get to work and agree to convene the meeting of the Catalan Security Board as soon as possible. You, Convergence and PP, have shown us that for what you want you do agree, for example to keep the political bars or to vote against the depoliticization of justice. On these and other issues, it has not taken so long to agree. Finally, we welcome their acceptance of this amendment, and we hope that they will do so as soon as possible and that the Catalan Security Board will meet as soon as possible. Thank you, president, advisors, deputies, deputies... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.268.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then – now yes – to fix its position, has the word Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.269.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Villagrasa, yes, today, eh? Today, because you know that the motion for a resolution tabled by your parliamentary group in the general policy debate was not able to vote in favour, but today I think it brings us a very reasonable motion, and I therefore announce to you the favourable vote of my parliamentary group. First of all, because it is well known and I am convinced that you, like many, have also taken care of the police unions, and that some of the points in this young man are very concrete demands of the police unions in Catalonia, the unions of the Mosso d'Esquadra and the Guardia Urbana, and, therefore, they are responding to proposals that at this time are demands from the body. In the first place, the template. Yeah, we're getting a lot more squadron moves, and we're getting a lot more squadron moves. And, besides, you know that we have a template that in time has grown older, and so that has effects on operations. And, therefore, these nine seats are urgent. I know the counselor, who is looking at me, will say to me: "Well, they can help us with the premise. So, yes, in this aspect we would help them, in others I don't know, but in this aspect yes, if they make a proposal to increase the staff of Mossos d'Esquadra. In the second place, because yes, we can incorporate agents from other parts of security. That's not a taboo. They are public servers, have experience and their incorporation can be immediate. If they are one, two or three, welcome; if they are fifty, better. We don't have a problem with this. Therefore, it is a very concrete demand of the police unions, too. Also, the creation of a bump of extraordinary hours. Because we know that this hypothetical increase in staffing will take, and at this point, as the campaign that the police unions are making, we are underminimal. For many things, it's not just the fourth level of counter-terrorism alert. If we're talking about traffic, we're in the least; if we're talking about security policies, in many communities in Catalonia we're in the least; if we find ourselves in the Maresme that there's a heavy accident or two heavy accidents and a thief in a home, we're in the least. And, therefore, it's not something that we can sometimes criticize the government either; it's that the staff doesn't give any more of themselves, and the public workers on the squad work on certain conditions. So, outside hours, outside hours, outside hours. And, therefore, this is a demand that would immediately pale a transition situation until we can dispose of the nine seats of Mossos d'Esquadra. Yes to a relationship of work places that takes into account the second activity; a second activity with tasks within the body that can be accomplished with the experience acquired from these people who, even though they are now in the second activity, have an accredited professional experience and we do not have to let them lose. Yes to the better and better coordination between the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the local police and, therefore, also to the gathering of local security juntas in those municipalities where these local security juntas..., I do not want to speak now, but there are examples of important populations of Catalonia in which they do not meet. And, therefore, this is also an important claim. And yes, to review and complete existing arrangements between local police and Squadron Mosses to study the possibility of sharing security functions, because this, at a time with insufficient staffing, is indispensable. I used to say, if there's a traffic accident and there's a thief, maybe in some of these cases, it's the local police. If this is not well coordinated... I do not say that it is not well coordinated, but it must be better coordinated, because at this time the lack of the staff of Mossos d'Esquadra in Catalonia..., who will be directly affected by it is the local police. And, therefore, this is something that needs better coordination at this time, except that it is a requirement of various important assemblies and, therefore, it is something that needs to be done. And from the Security Board I think we've said so many things that we don't know what to say anymore, and so let's hope that someday there's a government that deserves such a name in the State and that meets with the Government of the Generality and that the Security Board is a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.270.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.271.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies; good afternoon, counselor, thank you for staying, because this seems to be quite empty. Mr Villagrasa, we shall vote against your motion. And we will vote" not so much for a specific question of places or why we are against the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, as is often the case, but we will vote against it because what we want to do is a threat to the totality of the security and repressive policy of your party, to the policy of judicialization of politics, and, moreover, I will explain to you or you will surely understand, with my intervention of the day, the meaning of the inquiry that we presented the other day. I will give you three examples to justify our sentiment of the vote and to illustrate enough why we oppose to the totality the policy of security, of the Interior, and repressive of your party. The first example. Dilluns, the National Audience, urged for the prosecution and for its party, quotes to declare in Joan Coma, a director of ours, accused of sedition. Therefore, let's say no to who brings us to the National Audience to fight for the democratic rights of Catalonia. For another band – the second reason – yesterday there was a move to the foreign internment center of Aluche, in Madrid; foreign internment centers of which there are various departments for the State and which their heart is denied to hold, thus maintaining a racist institution that is planning people to not have papers. Therefore, let us not tell the Government that I kept the cents of shame. I the third reason. Do you know what this is, Mr. Villagrasa? That's a guix. [[The speaker shows it.]] It's for you, in fact... it's not for you, it's for your partner Alejandro Fernández Álvarez, deputy of his party and director of the Tarragona Assembly. And you know why I'm talking about this and I'm bringing you a guix, which I'll give you later? So, because the deputy of his party is one of the leaders that the Tarragona Assembly keeps the particular charge in a case that starts with a symbolic action of feminist companies that draw the silhouette of a dead woman on the ground before a booty of stuff to link the aesthetic pressure of the booty of stuff to male violence. I will explain myself, however, because all the Members understand what we are talking about. Gener of 2009: peaceful action before a shop of clothes, in which, as he explained, this was "the weapon that the demonstrators carried, they drew the silhouette to the ground of a dead woman, and there is an intervention of the Urban Guard that ends with a pallissa to three of the activists in a private portal and that is described thus in one of the statements of the previous diligences of one of the affected: "That inside the premises the declarant saw how the cop with the shaved head dragged Santiago down the floor, of the hair. That there was also inside the mustache cop, the urban guard girl and a tall agent with a hat. That the city guard officer stayed on the sidelines and tried to calm down the agents by telling them to stop. That Laia – who is, moreover, the CUP's registrar – "also shouted that they would stop. That the declarant, inside the portal, was in one of the corners taking photographs. That Laia was telling the shaved cop to leave Santiago. That this cop left Santiago and grabbed her with his arm wringing and kicking him on the side. That the police officer kept yelling that he'd stop his partner. Activists, of course, denounced the attack and the agents of the Urban Guard are making a denunciation to activists. And what's the Tarragona Junction doing? In terms of doing what's close to him, which is investigating, he's a person like the particular charge without investigating and asks for two years of imprisonment for each activist, plus a few fines. In his time, his companion, Mr. Fernández Álvaro, wrote this to his Facebook: "All my support for the Urban Guard of Tarragona, before those who confuse freedom of expression with coercion, urban vandalism and impunity. We are not going to allow what happens in Barcelona of Colau and the anti-systems to camp in its width with its usual thugs and thugs. I will also give him, together with the guix, his company's post on Facebook. How's it going? So he ended up here on 9 November with a judgment on the Bershka case. So, and I'm done, here's a hug to the Bershka companies. For us, it is a pride to have companies that defend and fight against male violence, and we say again "no to the party that covers up police attacks, which deals with the violation of human rights in Aluche, Tarragona and the Straits of Gibraltar." And I hope that that's what our Tuesday inquiry was all about: a year of guarantees of human rights. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.272.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.273.0	Thank you, President. Well, first thank you for the votes of Junts for Yes, Ciutadans, Socialist Party and Catalunya Yes it is Pot, to thank you for the support of the motion. And... look, basically, I'm going to address Mrs. Vehi. I don't see her... Ah, it's over there. When it was chalk..., it reminded me of my school season, when I was making EGB. And, by the way, before I remember this time, I say to you that I fully subscribe to the words of my colleague Alejandro Fernández, I subscribe and sign them. But coming back to my school days, I remember teachers telling us stories and fables to learn things from life, learn values... And I'm gonna tell you a fable. Once upon a time there was a councilman of the People's Party in Berga who walked through the streets of Berga celebrating the Patum, and approached a boy, assaulted him and a policeman stopped him. Turns out that kid was from the CUP. What's the morale? That you, the police, are upset. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.274.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.275.0	[[For technical reasons, the words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.282.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.276.0	Mr. Villagrasa, there is no fault, it is a violation of human rights; it is that if this passed the 3rd generation, the 21st generation of one of the affected has to go to the psychiatrist– and we have a report that the prosecutor also has – for extreme post-traumatic reasons; it is that his company and governor, and the Jointly, in this case, the mayor, has the obligation to investigate and participate in the circuit of sanctions and heavy lacks of security, and it is that in this case it has violated article 48 of the Local Police Law dealing with the inflection of torture, ill-treatment or cruel, inhuman and degrading penalties. That you're talking about failure is a lack of respect not just for human rights, but the right state that you're trying to defend. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.277.0	Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.278.0	Yes, by allusions. Mrs Vehi...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.279.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.280.0	Yes, very quickly. Mrs Vehi, what is a reality is that a colleague of yours for assaulting a councillor of the People's Party has been sentenced to one year's imprisonment and 3,000 euros in compensation. That's a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-20-2403.281.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 2 and 5. Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] We vote first, together, points 2 and 5, and then we vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote on points 2 and 5 begins. Points 2 and 5 were rejected by 60 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on security policy was approved by 121 votes to 9, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Many thanks for your cooperation. The session's up.
