ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government (continuation)]] [[255-00002/11]] In accordance with Rule 152.2 of the Rules of Procedure, for the defence of the motions for resolutions submitted, the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please, do you want to take your seats so we can start the session?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.2.0	Start?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.3.0	Mr. Carrizosa, when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.4.0	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We would have liked this general policy debate to have been able to carry on much more than is likely to be possible, and that is because in a debate such as the one that is taking place today in Catalonia many things are contaminated by what does not really matter to all citizens. And, then, some proposals that we could have taken forward among all of us have not been able to agree because there is that element which is currently dividing this Chamber into two, which I hope our society is not divided into two, but which certainly makes it difficult to move forward in politics. We have brought many proposals, our Group of Citizens, for adoption in this plenary, in the most diverse subjects. We have brought proposals on waiting lists, in order to try to put an end to waiting lists in health; we have brought proposals in education, universities, in democratic regeneration; we have asked for respect for democratic laws; we have proposed a new system of financing, aid to self-employed people, small and medium-sized enterprises, workers, children, young people, older people, dependents, public workers; we have proposed questions on the environment, on gender violence, on motorways, on the interior, on security, on public order, on justice...; finally, on the most varied issues, such as the rest of the Chamber's groups. These varied proposals, for Citizens..., we cannot, of course, list them all now, but we would focus on three major axes, which would be: economic revival and employment; aid to those who are having a bad time, social policies, and proposals for a policy and administration free of corruption. As for economic revival, in addition to a number of proposals in the field of taxes – and the main one of them would be to lower the IRPF for middle and popular classes – there is the care of this business fabric, of those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, of the self-employed. We know that we have special care for those self-employed and those small and medium-sized enterprises..., which are the main engine of job creation in Spain. Our proposals, therefore, to help the autonomous in the field of the competences of Catalonia..., can be done things, not only with the state proposals, of which we already defend many in the Congress of Deputies, in our group, as you know, but here in Catalonia, we can do things also for the people who raise the blind day by day. And these are that the Administration faces its debts with the self-employed within a maximum of thirty days, which is not being made; that there are tax incentives and bonuses in the self-employed quotas; that the VAT is not paid until it is not collected; not to quote who does not arrive at the end of the month. All these are proposals in Congress. Some of whom we are especially proud of are those who seek to ensure that self-employed women can have their quota increased, once they return to work, for a period of two years. In the field of the Catalan Administration we have asked, in our proposals, that paternity and maternity leave be equaled for women officials..., we..., there are things that can be done in the General Administration of the State and in the rest of Spain, and for people who are not functional, but in the public service we are allowed to equal these paternity and maternity leave for the officials of Catalonia ; we would like that to be so, because politicians are to put solutions and not to give problems. In the economic sphere, of course, the star of our measures, which we are always saying is so necessary for Catalonia, is better financing; finally, to enter into negotiations in Madrid, to negotiate from here, from Catalonia, to negotiate a new system of financing that is fairer and more transparent for all the autonomous communities. On social issues we have a currency: the best social policies are those that can be paid; you can't fool citizens by promising everything, you have to make realistic policies, which are not currently being done. We need to reverse the cuts in health and education, and return to pre-crisis levels. We must seek to reduce the waiting lists that are given in health care and are also given in dependence. How many elders are not able to reach residences until after several years of waiting? Because we have, gentlemen... it is that we have residences prepared to accommodate those elders, we have enough places to care for many elders, and not for lack of funding those empty beds are not being filled, and this is outrageous, especially when we are spending money on much less urgent and much less important things that do not benefit people. In education, which is one of the most important occupations, which are the most equal for citizens and which we neglect most, they have to be done once and for all – and this proposal is taken by us to see if it gets the majority support, and this I expressly ask also from the government group – free textbooks; enough food scholarships; eliminating barracks; education from zero to three years. In universities, we reduce the fees; it is outrageous that there are families who cannot take their children to school because of lack of financial means. We have to lower the fees and we have to raise the scholarships. Helping dependents, guaranteed income of citizenship... All this can be paid for, but for that we have to undertake the reform, too, of the public administration: to lower fat and increase muscle; we have productive officials and we have political chiringuitos that drain public resources. We propose here in infrastructures, again: negotiation of the Mediterranean Corridor and a very well-founded proposal for the abolition of tolls in Catalonia, which we hope and believe will have much support, and we hope that you will have the support of all of you. Finally, measures of political regeneration and the fight against corruption; structural reforms; suppression of suffocation; suppression of pardons for political corruption; those accused of political corruption, outside politics; that in the Electoral Law the vote of all should be the same; a depoliticized justice; that political bodies should not intervene in the appointment of judges. Finally, reforms that are seen for the lives of citizens. Unfortunately, this has not been nor is it a normal general policy debate. It is going to monopolize much with the subject, once again endless, of the 'neverendum, this referendum that never ends; this referendum that was..., which had already been done on 9 November, which had already been done on 27 September, but which returns again and again from the dead. Although it was said that they had already earned it and that money is already being spent on state structures, we are now told that they want to do it again; there are some proposals now that they are re-editing the old subject again. Look, we don't want a referendum that keeps us entertained; we want reforms to be undertaken in Catalonia and Spain; that they convince, not you, leaders of political parties, that they have been doing this for a long time and that they don't go wrong, but the citizens, that they want solutions – that they want solutions – and they don't want endless debates of a political nature. We, as much as there are speeches today, for many votes today on truly important issues, are afraid that many of the issues that matter will be covered by the issue of referendum and independence. You speak one day, yesterday President Puigdemont spoke, of general politics, of the things that matter; that day is over, the other 364 of the year begins for the next general policy debate; this very morning, this evening, in the news, it is already going to monopolize the monotheme of political today too long. I am therefore afraid that we will quickly forget what really matters to the citizens and not what is not in any survey among the priorities of the majority of the population. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.5.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. The words of Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.6.0	Thank you, President. President, councillors, deputies and deputies, the cloends of trade union congresses are a time when many representatives of different..., not of all, but of different political parties, we are invited and we are present. Fifteen days ago, the Fédération d'Industry, Construction and Agri-Food of the UGT, and in the closing speech of the convention – there was also the Chakir present and other members of other groups – the secretary general of this new federation placed the deputies we were there. And what do you think that unionist said to us? You told us not to fail in industrial policies, what it looks like, right? , which, after years of inopérence, seems to be reactivated, and we told him that we would pursue Councilman Baiget because the national pact pulls forward. But Antonio Rudilla told us that they don't hear about the issues that concern the workers and the workers' representatives; he told us that they don't feel like talking and that there's no political agenda the issues of occupation, education – he talked about his daughters – sanitation, waiting lists, social services. And the truth is, and this is the first observation that I wanted to convey to you is that we are talking about these issues here, but they are not part of the real political agenda. We approve, we debate..., today we will approve many things, but in the end the headlines will be another time the hamster that turns the wheel, another time the process towards independence. It is not that, ladies and gentlemen, that expects a good part of the citizenry, that wants its politicians, its representatives talking about issues that really interest them. I will have to call Antonio today, and I will have to tell him that we have not spoken, that we have approved many proposals, but that unfortunately those that are concrete, those that have commitments, therefore, will not tend the gathering of groups that support the Government. Many will approve resolutions, many for a broad agreement, but citizenship, today and tomorrow, will not notice, in any case, these agreements that we arrive today and that they will not be translated into a better quality of life or their day-to-day. Cap calendari, if we don't say 2020, huh? , which is the full road that has been put into these resolutions..., no calendars or significant budgetary departures consist of the resolutions that Together for the Yes will vote favorably. They will be toasts to the sun, unfortunately, full of verbs such as to gather, to "prioritise and improve". That's the way things are, and I think we need to tell them from the Faristol, too. A self-criticism of all of us, but especially of the Government. Yesterday President Puigdemont made a single proposal that came out to the headlines, who are the seven thousand employees and employees of the public sector. Well, so, it was a proposal, it came out to the headlines, but today, this, we're not voting. I mean, that... there's no compromise in the resolution that we're talking about seven thousand public employees. I now turn to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposals. We have made individual proposals, we have not agreed some with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and we have made many transactions that go in this line of responding to the requests of the workers and workers of Catalonia and also to the fabric of our country's product. Yesterday Miquel Iceta, the president of my group, said – and I return to say, today – that we believe that President Puigdemont and his Government have a wrong set of priorities and, consequently, the resolutions of the Socialist Group, what they do is to place themselves in work and to complete in what we believe should be the mission of this Parliament and of the Government, that it is to defend the interests of all citizens and not just those who share their full road. In view of the agendas which we consider to be unrealizable and which you will take to the vote from here to a moment before a government which, in the end, is once again a prisoner of the UPC, the Socialist Group has tried to offer proposals which we consider feasible and which we believe could have a decisive impact on improving the lives of Catalans and Catalans. Many, we have agreed with the Group of the European People's Party on the Yes, already told them that there will be many proposals coming out; I believe that around half of the Socialist Group's proposals will be picked up and thrown forward. We have four axes; we want to make it clear that there is an alternative to Catalonia that passes through a new agreement with the rest of Spain to devote the energies to making the economy grow in a sustainable way, to putting at the centre an agenda of reduction of social inequalities and to have a guarantee of institutional quality and territorial cohesion. We believe that in this way we can offer the citizenry a better present and a future hopeful, along with institutional challenges and the increase in inequalities that we are painting with the government that we have at these times. We're worried that we can't pull together with Juntes' votes for the Yes, and that we've had to give up concretes, but we think that based on the agreement..., and I think that all the parliamentary groups have been there, that we've rushed this morning to try to reach agreements. To our resolutions there is also a clear bet for the dialogue and the better of self-government, which contrast with Puigdemont's permanent intent and his government to maintain environmental tension with the State, which we regret. In this case, immersed in the empath of impotence in which our country is a long time ago, our proposals, unfortunately, will not tend to the gathering of the majority. I am now taking a look at the proposals we have put forward. He was talking about four axes; the first has to do with sustainable development for everyone. We believe that the National Pact for Industry must be at the forefront of a definition of sectoral policies that our country needs, to be asked for the combination of the product fabric for which it does business finance, training, infrastructure, research, development and innovation, business growth and internationalization, but also the quality of employment. We have also set ourselves everything you have to do with the energy transition and, therefore, one of the proposals that I think will be put forward goes through to lay the foundations for this National Energy Transition Pact. We have made efforts to negotiate proposals in the economic growth bloc, and I hope that those who have to do with industry, with energy, also thanks to the transactions, among all of us, so I think they will make it possible for them to pull forward. I want to make special mention of 'vocational training' because it is of those laws which we have agreed with a large majority, which we asked the government a few months ago, which is not completing the deployment of the law and, unfortunately, today, neither will the group that supports the government make it possible to pull this forward. And also highlight the timid advent, very timid for what it does to our ultimate goal that the tourist tax reverts to the populations that reign and manage tourism at our home, but we rejoice at this advent, timid advent. There is another important aside, which is the agenda for equality. In the field of education we will get Councilwoman Ruiz to come and give explanations of the incompliments of her council: P3, evaluation and compaction of days, closure of lines..., and we hope that in the assumptions coming to Parliament there will be a game of educational innovation. Health care and dependency: we have also reached agreements, as in the matter of equality. There are two proposals that seem not to have been raised and we want to denounce them. There's a tea to see with the groceries. Once again, you can vote, you have been voting, but in the end there is not enough resources for all the families that need these groceries. And we are particularly concerned about a motion for a resolution that we have made with Catalonia Yes, it is possible that you have to see with childhood, that you demand that the Generalitat is a person as a popular accusation, as the Children's Law says, and that it seems, I would like to expect, that they vote for respect for the Law of Parliament, but this time together for the Yes will vote against respect for the Law of Parliament, of the Children's Law. We have institutional quality and territorial cohesion. Yesterday the president, President Puigdemont, spoke that there was a compromise with the public sector of these seven thousand places, but we, when we put thread to the needle, when we speak of public occupation, of the rights of the workers who are in these services and of administrative reform, then not the group that supports the government seems not to want to raise it. I'm done, because I have a very short time left, where the territorial axis is. The last block of the resolutions has to do with the territorial box. The question that he is asking over all the debates, which yesterday, it is true, the president did not make express mention, but that in fact is conditioning the whole legislature, which is this question of the relationship of Catalonia, Spain and the process. As much as they agree to repeat that they have a democratic mandate, we will say it again: they do not. And beyond the years and the comings of the full road, which I no longer know how many we carry, what is clear now is that there are two paths: that of unilaterality, that you have clearly decided to pull for the right, and we believe that they are wrong and that they are taking us to the rocks; or the other way, which is the dialogue, that of the reform of the Constitution. We propose a federal reform that responds to the three requests that we consider that, yes, they involve the majority of Catalans..., of Catalans' intentions: a better financing, a better distribution of skills and mutual recognition within the diversity that defines us all Catalans and also all Spaniards. We have already said on various occasions that in order to produce a change as deep as you propose, as at least, there is an agreement between Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards respect the legality of the mechanism for which it is intended to achieve this result. And you, we're sorry, but you're pulling for the right, you're jumping the laws that we all learn. We regret that the socioeconomic agenda and the reduction of inequalities are not at the center of the agenda and in the... I'm out of time, but I want to make a last mention. We talk a lot about confrontation, but at the time of truth we have seen in the past how the right is agreed, as the People's Party and Together for the Yes will make it possible that left proposals, in this case with the complicity of the Republican Left, will not pull forward. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.7.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. Then there's the word "Jessica Albiach", by Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.8.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Today we present ourselves here with the same objective as we entered the institutions: putting people at the center of politics. And surely, if I say that, you'll all be thinking, "It's the same thing that we're trying to do all of. So something must have failed because reality is that we live every day in a country that is more unjust and more unequal. We will not question what intent they had on the policies that have brought us so far, but the result we have is, for one band, an oligarchy that is armored in its privileges; and for another, the deepening of the inequality of social, cultural and gender classes. And this, clearly, is not our model. Our model goes through a feminist, ecological and social Catalonia. He goes on to take care of life, to live with dignity and also to die with dignity; to shield the welfare system; to stop the stars of neoliberalism and corruption; to work for the majority and to protect, also, vulnerable minorities, and to defend rights and freedoms. We're also working for a Catalonia with the right to decide everything. And, obviously, in the fight against the judicialization of politics, and that is why we have put forward a joint motion for a resolution with the CUP and with Juntes per el Si to defend all elected bodies threatened to express or allow to express any political option that remains democratic. Yesterday, Mr. Turull asked us to make realistic proposals to the chamber groups. Mr. Turull, don't let me give you this warning, we know what we're asking and we know how much it costs. Now, as I explained earlier, it's a model question; so if they don't want to approve any of our proposals it's easier and more realistic to say they don't want to and can't. Precisely we, together with the PSC, have put forward a proposal on assumptions that seeks primarily three things: the first is very sad, very basic, but if we look back at it is necessary, it simply asks that a period of dialogue be held between parliamentary groups before the government presents the assumptions; as simple and as easy as that. The second is a tax reform because who pays the most; in short, we claim social justice and redistribution of wealth. And the third, a real and effective fight against tax fraud, a tax fraud that, moreover, practices, mainly, the richest. As they are central proposals, they are realistic and they are necessary. Six months ago we celebrated the Social Emergence Plenary. Yesterday the president and various spokespersons talked a lot about the subject. You say that they are complete with what we have approved, but there are heavy incompliments, and measures that, moreover, do not require presuppositional endowment. This is why we ask you to present, in one_me, the new conditions to recover the minimum income of insertion and to be able also, before the assumptions, to tend the report of social progress, in order to be able to set the priorities of the assumption. I would also like to remind the members of the Government that the year 2013 entered Parliament a guaranteed income ILP which, moreover, counted with 120,000 signatures. He hasn't set out yet, and that's why we're asking that we approve the law of one for all and one more specific game, Mr. Junqueras, on the assumption of 2017. Today we have presented a follow-up of measures that we are sure will coincide with the President's wishes. If you really believe the one who explained to us yesterday, Together for the Yes you could vote in favour. First of all, let's talk about housing. Law 24/2015 is certain that it has a part that has been challenged by the Spanish Government, but there is one other that is not, and there are measures, on this part, that are not contested and that could be developed. For example, it could create a hundred empty dwellings that do not have a social function; give social use to empty floors that have financial entities and great tenors, and also sign agree with the administrators to avoid gas and light sizes, and fine them in case of failure. But it's that in Catalonia the drama of the denunciations was transferred from the mortgage to the loguer. Every day in Catalonia, there are twenty-seven families living in Catalonia, and to do so, the future law of housing law should define abuse and define it more as a heavy crime. Secondly, we have put forward a series of proposals to put an end to school placement and we also ask the Government that it is present as a popular accusation in cases of sexual abuse of children and young people in the field of education and in the case of minor wards for the Generality, beginning with the case of the Marists and abuse of the pedophile producer. We think it's a moral obligation to do so, and it's also unfortunate, but it seems like they're voting against it. I'd ask them to react. It is also important to remember the constant sexual assaults suffered by women. We need to be aware, we need to report, and we need to stop the double victimization of these women who make up the staff who bring them in. In the third place, we need to guarantee the real free education, from the schools to the schools and also with the artistic teachings. We also need to reshape the educational centres that need it; not shut down P3 lines from the public; plan the demand for baccalaureate and secondary places, which know they are massive; publish the inclusive school decree once and for all, and we need to reverse the details of the docent body. If the education system is working right now, it is thanks to the efforts of teachers and teachers and the rest of the staff working in the educational centres. And in this sense we also need to talk about universities. We have an old university; we have a tap because young researchers can stabilize. If we're talking about talent flight, that's talent flight. The Pla Serra Húnter, according to the university community is because, it is slow and does not give any differential results. Therefore, we propose to paralyze him and study, between government and university community, how to give out to this problem. The other pillar of the welfare state is sanitation. The public health system is based on both commercialization and retailing, and that is why we have focused the proposal on a single point, which is to reverse the retailing of hospital and health professional staff. Neither can we forget environmental and energy issues. We could talk about a lot of things, but we'd limit ourselves to three. A resolution to enable electrical self-generation and the promotion of self-consumption by means of photovoltaic installations. A resolution that, moreover, has no presuppositional cost, where we ask that it is regulating only contaminants, such as Ercros to Flix or Iberpotash to Bages. Basically, he says, "Whoever defiles or who defiles, let him pay. And the other, it's just as basic as access to drinking water. There are municipalities where they can't drink water because there are nitrate-contaminated aquifers. These three seem to be pulling forward, and I'm telling you, Congresswoman Hortênsia Grau is very happy and has already told me that she will follow up to see the compliment of approving these proposals. [[Some applause.]] I would also like to take advantage of the advent, as tomorrow is October 7th – World Dignity Work Day is celebrated – to show our support for all the activities that are developing. A time ago, the difference between social exclusion and a decent life was determined to have a job or not. Right now, this isn't nothing anymore. We have put forward a proposal aimed at demanding a specific work inspection plan to put an end to the precariousness of various sectors, especially those of small and medium-sized industries, where there is a lot of fraudulent contracting. And also to make the professional malalities visible, which we are now paying with public assumptions and which we should go on account of the mutuals. And finally, already grabbing the president's wire when yesterday he was talking about returning trust in institutions and strengthening democracy, like talking about TTIP. If the European representatives of Juntes per el Si actually have a different speech to Catalonia, today they can leave it clear that we are voting for the joint proposal we are making with the CUP and the PSC, against the TTIP. And, for what he does to the reference, then, welcome you back to the screen and recognize that 27-S cannot replace a query. For this reason, and only for this reason, we will abstain in the vote on the proposal that they make together for the Yes and the CUP, but we want to make it very clear that it is not our full road, that we do not share the model they propose and that we will continue to defend – and so you say our proposal – that it is a useful reference, and that, therefore, it should continue with guarantees and recognitions. And what it does to the process is, for us, it has to be done from the bottom up and without a predetermined result. And for that reason, whether they are compatible with these principles or not, we will vote for it or against it. I have to admit that we were wearing a few days that we were working on the president's speeches: he was talking about reference, he was talking about fighting against inequalities, about ending denials. And we thought: « Puigdemont is not But. And it's true: Puigdemont is not But. You've got a better attitude, you've got a better attitude. But the reality is that when the time has come to negotiate concrete proposals, we have found that Together for the Yes, in the social sector, it is certain that there is mass assembly to the Convergence of always, unable to make the most paid, unable to present itself as a particular accusation to the cases of sexual abuse to minors, without wanting to talk about abuse, without wanting to increase the degree of reversal in public education. In short, we found each other with a smile on their mouth and said they wanted to work for the majority. We still don't know which majorities they're referring to. That said, we are grateful for the step they have taken in environmental issues, in democratising the European Union and in returning to the referendum. And, finally, he wanted to thank the company and companies of the PSC for the collaboration in the plenary – we have made five joint proposals – and, in general, the good predisposition of the groups of the chamber to reach agreements. And I would not like to end without emphasising that all the groups in the chamber, less the PP, have made their own motion for a resolution to repeal the decree of renewals of the LOMCE, and we have been able to sign it together. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. The words of Mr. Enric Millo, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.10.0	Thank you, Madam President. President, members of the Government, Members, Members, I want to begin this turn of intervention to present our proposals for resolution and position myself in relation to the rest of the groups. These short minutes I want to start by referring to a sentence we were listening to from President Puigdemont yesterday. The president said yesterday: "It is better that we look for the points of coincidence. Don't be ashamed of coincidences, don't be ashamed of coincidences. I take this sentence, I think it's interesting, but I also want to say that you've made it very difficult for us. But the agaph, the phrase; otherwise, I would not have started with it. Because you come here today in this House with some motions for resolutions, together with the CUP, that again insist on a path that you know you can't pass. And they are here today to vote on a motion for a resolution that you know perfectly well what end you have, what awaits them, because it is the consequence and development of other resolutions that this Parliament has already approved and that the Constitutional Court has annulled. And, therefore, you repeat to maintain a position that you know is situated on a path that has not gone out, and that, therefore, what you are doing is blocking the exit to a problem that you have created. And I, today, in the defense of our motions for resolutions... there are more than one hundred initiatives, to the twenty proposals that we have put forward, obviously I will not expose them all, but I want to say that we have wanted to maintain..., and, in this concrete case, I want to reiterate to you that for us the most important would be, precisely, that you possess in practice what you ask of others, that it is the dialog as a pattern of behavior. Because you are complaining, or accusing others that we are not talking, when really the ones that are blocking the dialog are you. You, the year 2012, their way of dialogue was to tell the Government of Spain: "Tax pact or tax pact, when they wanted to start a separation process in Catalonia. The year 2014 went back to the Government of Spain to say to him: "Consultation or consultation, when they wanted to keep their full route of crossing out of the norms that govern us. And now, 2016, his way of hearing the dialog is: "Referendum or referendum. That is to say, 'tax pact or tax pact,' 'consultation or consultation,' referring to the referendum. This is his way of hearing the dialog. So, I say, we insist, that the formula is: "Dialeg or Dialeg. And you don't put it in practice anyway. But what's the most important thing that's happened this week and the week before, even though you haven't been out here, and you're also storing it? The most important thing is the assumption, Mr Puigdemont, and you know it. The premise is the key. Why did you make a question of trust here last week? Because his partners didn't approve of the premise, otherwise, they wouldn't have done it. And you came out winning the vote. But I ask them: "Do we already have a presupposition? No, no, So, presumably, you overcame the question of trust, but you left here without any presupposition. In 2016, obviously not. The question I'm asking you right now: in 2017, do you have a presuppost? Not for now, either. What we ask of him is that I carry the premise in this chamber – and it forms part of the basic principles of our resolution proposals – and that we can discuss it. "Dialeg or dialeg, is our proposal. We're willing to talk to each other. Now, do the presupposition – your advisor, vice president, I suppose he will do it well – and carry a presupposition that is realistic, that the tickets adjust to what is reality, that you don't make up things that can't happen, that don't propose to push the taxes. Because you said publicly, Mr. President, that Catalonia will not be taxed, that it is what the leaders of the CUP ask for, and that we have listened to different things in the long run. So I made it clear that we would not push taxes in Catalonia. I mean, he's not allowed to flush through the CUP when he comes here with his presupposition project. And you're trying, with this dialy formula, to help us all who want to safeguard the self-government we have, because you're putting it at risk. That is why there is also a proposal that we ask you to focus your effort on what it means to defend self-government, which is not the path of the breach that you are bringing to an end. And that is why we are calling for the deletion of the Secretary for the Development of Self-Government, the Office for the Millor and the Interdepartmental Commission. Let us focus on a single body that is clearly dedicated to what we can all share, "the coincidences, which you said, president, not that which separates us, that is, the Institute of Studies of Self-Government. And the premise is the key, as I say, why? It is the key, if you do not or do not allow the insistence on this path to independence to block the social and economic agenda that Catalonia requires. And that has to be reflected in this premise. And here I am, too, so I would like to thank you that, indeed, when we forget for a moment on the way out that you insist on trying to finish, and we go, we land in the real themes that matter to Catalans, we find points of coincidence. And we found them. And it's a demonstration that when he's willing to talk, although some groups have this hard knowledge and they criticize us for this subject, we can also agree. And this, therefore, allows us to reach agreements in terms of equality, salvation, justice, agriculture, enterprise, occupation; that are questions that matter to the Catalans. When we talk about things that really matter, I'm sure we can agree; in many, we can't, but in others we certainly can. If you insist on this path, no. Another way in which you should stop insisting, which we also set out in our motions for resolutions, is to continue to stuff Catalonia's name when you went around the world. We ask you to help us put Catalonia's name in the world. But not only Catalonia, Catalonia and Spain, because for us this went together, it didn't separate. And so we go around the world explaining Catalonia's position, that we make investments in Catalonia attractive, and that we help our businesses to export, to internationalize the economy. In this formula – in this formula – they will find us secure. Now, use outer action to stuff, no. Because what they do is they're stupid, or they're stupid, the image of Catalonia. There are some things, though, that we will never – ever find. I therefore explain in this way why, therefore, some of the motions for resolutions that have been put forward will not support us. We will never vote on proposals to unilaterally break the existing democratic legal framework, because in democracy the laws will have to be completed. And this is a formula that we can't, in any way, allow it to be skewered. Two: increase the fiscal pressure. Some of the proposals that we have seen have as their objective that Catalonia, which is the place where we pay the most taxes from all of Spain, still support our taxes. Here they will never find the support of the People's Party either; on the contrary, our proposals will find concrete proposals, concrete measures to reduce the fiscal pressure. And some will say: "No, you can't reduce the tax pressure because then we have less money. So, no. Precisely the People's Party government has demonstrated once again that taxes can be lowered and recapitulated. And this is the consequence of the liquidation, for example, of the 2015 assumption that the IRPF will have received 1,000_million more euros. The same way that, thanks to the increase and the improvement of the economy, growth, as a result of this tax reform, will also include 3,500_million euros more in the concept of VAT – I refer to the conjunction of the State. It is to say that lowering taxes helps to grow the economy, not the other way around; and this allows, then, a better distribution of wealth and better care for social services – which for us is important: education, health, social services, etc. – to foster the productive economy, and this allows us to create employment. Where they will never find us, it is not in everything that puts in danger the viability of the model of Catalan concerted school education. They'll never find us here. Nor with those who claim to be a language model that imposes one language on top of the other, of the two who are official in Catalonia. Neither will they find us with proposals and measures that generate false expectations; we will not do that. I know the president will appreciate that. We're not a party or a parliamentary group that does magic, we're not voting for things that we know can't be done. We won't. Other powers have the costume to do it. We will not, because if something characterizes us, precisely, it is our pragmatism, our realism. You blow up pigeons and become trout, and you explain things to people you can't accomplish afterwards. And this will end up passing the bill. It's better to tell the truth, because when you tell the truth, everyone knows they can trust you. And they won't find us, either, voting for anything that allows me to project internationally a negative image of Catalonia and Spain. So, this is the capture of the People's Parliamentary Group. I hope that the result of these votes will make it possible to see that the path is not precisely that of confrontation and that of the crossing, but that of the dialog to find solutions to what really can, for all of us, make coincide. And the same way I started my speech with a sentence from President Puigdemont, I want to end with a sentence from another President, who is the chairman of my parliamentary group. Xavier García Albiol gave it to you yesterday – and I repeat his words –: "Sir Puigdemont, be valid and do not deny the dialect. Don't push us against a wall, because who bets for everything or anything normally stays with nothing. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Millo. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.12.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, Members, yesterday we defended that it was a general policy debate as an exception, and we believe that today is a plasma in the resolutions that were finally approved. We are, therefore, particularly pleased that there is this degree of concreteness about these extraordinary debates to which we had committed ourselves in the September 27th campaign and which gave the victory to the formations that defended them. In the first place, therefore, it is a good thing that a resolution is adopted with a principle of date and question for the reference; it is a good decision to celebrate it and to reach concrete commitments that force this Parliament and the Government on this line, and to be able to say that today the countdown for the celebration of this reference of self-determination, for the exercise of the right to decide, begins today. And reposition all the political groups and all the social sectors that are in favour of this right to decide and say this: that Catalonia is determined to consult its people, to celebrate this reference, and that they will not put up with us; neither will they put up with us nor will we wait for permissions. All these sectors will be dating at this summit that we commit ourselves to opening properly, before the year ends. And, finally, therefore, to create this commission of people from the international arena, familiar with the matter of self-determination or who have participated in similar processes, the purpose of which would be to vet for democratic guarantees, which must make complete both the Catalan institutions organizing the referendum as the Spanish State as well as the interested party, let us say so. When I win the 'yes' in this reference, what we want is precisely to open a process constitute, and today we also approve resolutions in this sense, in the sense, therefore, to define this pre-phase, this participatory and preparatory phase of the process constitute. That is why there will be the creation of a parliamentary committee, and that is why there will be a presuppositional endowment for this stage of participation. And in this process, we are actually talking about this, so some groups consider that they are the real priorities, that we could agree with that. The real priorities are all that come from our groups, because we are all, therefore, connected with society; it is not going to discredit some priorities against others. And we can do it in the framework of a process without the limitations we currently have on the legislative framework of the Spanish State, and we can do it with people and we can do it from below. This is the virtue of the proposal that we defend a process as the best mark to resolve all the debates our society has raised. Another resolution that we are satisfied that can be approved is the one that makes reference to the Catalan Countries. We know that the Catalan reality has gone beyond the territory of the legislation emanating from this Parliament, but the bonds are obvious and we want to strengthen them. And that's why we're talking about political and cultural movements in Valencia, Northern Catalonia, the Balearic Islands and Pitiüses and the Ponent Strip districts. In another block of resolutions, which make reference to economic and fiscal policies, we have followed the line that our company Benet Salellas once exposed from this forum: to defend the most paid, and unfortunately today will not succeed the resolution that makes reference to this; in the same way that the resolutions that denounce the "deterrence as the system that imposes the ability of this society to generate wealth and to distribute it probably also prosper, so that we are satisfied that it will certainly prosper is that of the changes in the Law of Presupposition, in the suppression of those articles that involve this quota, precisely, in the presuppositions, and now that we can say that we are in compliance with our obligation to abolish the particular article. In another order of things, the general policy debate also evaluates the work of government and, respecting it, we want to highlight a series of questions. The first, that Together for the Yes is not Convergence and Union; yesterday the president reminded us with reference to a group that asked him for explanations for what is ugly to the Eurocamera. Also, this has to be noted, and there are areas and councils of your Government in which this change does not appreciate, there is a continuum, and therefore there cannot be our support in these lines, in particular the Department of Interior, the Department of Education and the area of universities in the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge. The motion for a resolution that comes from the Juntes per el Si Group, which gives support to the Government, we approve most of them, but we cannot support the efforts that are being made in the area of deprivatization, but we do not agree with the whole line that is being followed in this matter, as we would also like to point out that there are areas where we have not entered this line and that, therefore, the concertation continues to be the model that is being maintained in our health system. And in universities in particular, especially to highlight that the group that supports the government is probably going to be left alone in relation to some political lines that we think should be reviewed, because, as pointed out, it is not that they do not generate consensus in this chamber: it is that they do not generate it in the university community either. And let's replace the government that is repositioning some lines in university matter, in particular the one that makes reference to Pla Serra Húnter, which in short we know will enter into parliamentary proceedings. Let's go back to sitting down and seeing the virtues that this plan can have and the many defects that it can have and that, let's say, the university community has now assigned. In housing, we voted in favour of Junts' proposal for the Yes, and more in view of the fact that it has accepted proposals that would improve it in line with the CUP's proposal. And we also vote in favour of what Catalonia is proposing Yes, it is Pot, of changes in the future law of measures to protect the right to housing, proposed. Satisfy also that the resolution that makes reference to the debt of the joints can prosper. We celebrate having put forward a proposal that resolved the payment of the generality's debt. And so, we see, since..., it has not been surprising either, but we do see that our proposals in areas such as territories, greetings or education today are not enough for the majority, but we are not disconcerted. We are of those who started defending, in the last few decades, that the best thing that could serve the interests of this country was the democratic breakdown and independence, and then we were just a few and now we are much more. Someday, probably, our lines in the defence of public services could be much more majority. From the rest of the group's resolutions, we don't have much time to get in there. There is one thing to highlight: this phenomenon of bus PR makes it difficult for us to give support to some of them in many cases. We found ourselves with points that, interspersed, we could enjoy our support, as we now celebrate Clara Campoamor's birthday, but it was swept away with doing more castle classes at the schools, which obviously, therefore, we can't agree with, can we? And this is the problem of these, so, big lines that we find ourselves to solve in just a few hours our positioning. And finally, yes, as has already been said, we approve a resolution against judicial and administrative repression against the self-determination process and against the political expressions that this process generates in the institutions. And let us say that this House is going to rise to be able to debate and resolve everything that you believe. He started this legislature with a resolution, last November 9th, which he said, and we continue to maintain it. Whenever democratic debates are held legitimately, this House will rise. And we should be proud of all the members of this chamber that it is. The alternative to this sovereignty of the House is the one that passed this very week: a social debate that was held through the gathering of signatures, through an ILP, to discuss the continuity or not of the bulls on the square, today we add that it was not good for the king, and the Constitutional Court sends it to the paper mill. That, Mr. Millo, detested Catalonia at international level. Catalonia was prestiged at that time to have the courage to face a question that was considered obsolete and to legislate around it and finally finish it. What would be a disdain would now be forcing us to reimplant it. Therefore, the sovereignty of this Parliament, and we totally reject the threats that have occurred with regard to the latest events against its president. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. The words of Ms. Marta Rovira, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.14.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, with or without the permission of the Constitutional Court, the Spanish Government and some groups of this chamber, we will do our job as MPs and MPs, in exercising the rights in terms equal to the rest, to any other MP who can come out in this Faristol and defend what he thinks. And we will agree with the current legislation and a democratic mandate referred to in the ballot box. I'm starting, that I think we should start this way, and the more they know the latest news coming this late, coinciding with this parliamentary debate... [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.15.0	Please, let's continue with the Ple.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.16.0	That said, we have to say that Catalonia is under an accelerated change process. Now more than ever, we find ourselves in a historical crux: either to follow the model of some states of northern Europe or to follow the model of the Spanish State, which we know so well; or to have an economy served by a few, the oligopolises, or to put it at the service of the city council. We have to decide whether we want to fight the tax fraud or whether we allow the tax fraud to permeate all the spheres of our society. We have to decide whether we want the electrics to gain too much benefit from the BOE or we have to decide whether the citizens can have solar plates and consume the energy they produce at a low cost. We have to decide, therefore, whether to take the path of modernity or to remain immobile, in the past, by giving up the change of language. And it seems to us that Catalan society has decided to change, change to improve, a profound change. And we've decided to head for the change, take the flag of the change. And that is what reflects the motions for resolutions that we have raised in this general policy debate. This country needs to apply the Law of Housing Emergency and Fight against the Energy Poor, it is clear that yes, say what the Spanish Government or the Constitutional Court says, because people have decided to deal with these needs and the Parliament has supported them. And that means what we propose, that it is to dispose of the empty floors of the benches and to make them available to families at risk of social exclusion. This means that banking entities must offer a social logger to vulnerable families, to be denominated. And this means that it is necessary to sign what you need because the sub-administration companies do not match the basic services, signing the agreement that they are correspondents. This country needs to provide more resources to the Catalan Institute of Finance, because the peppers and entrepreneurs of this country have access to credit. It's basic to creating jobs and it's basic to reactivate our economy. We sit down and do it. This country needs to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and against morositude, and that is why it needs to incorporate more personnel and resources into the areas of inspection and recovery of the Catalan tax agency, and we do so. This country needs the government to deploy the law of equality; the more advanced, more modern countries are equal countries. Therefore, we propose ourselves and we do, starting to resize the Catalan Institute of Donations. This country needs a tax on nuclear power, a tax on banking, a tax on empty floors, because the more they have to bring, and because the more they generate negative externalities, they also need to bring more. Tell what the Spanish government says when we approve of these taxes in this chamber, to us who are close to us is defending the interests of the citizens and not the interests of the Spanish oligopolises. This country believes that hourly reform is the best for the citizen. So we sit down and do it. We sit down all the social, economic, institutional agents of the country and we will implement the hourly reform. This country needs to connect with the world at all times and in all spheres, and that is why it needs to expand the network of delegations abroad and the network of government sector offices abroad, and it needs to internationalize our economy and our culture, and to capture investments, and encourage exchange, and share, and learn, and get out, and open up, and collaborate, and network, and contrast public policies with other governments, and be permanently connected with change. We want to be a modern country and we know how to do it. This country needs citizens to be able to access information about public activity, all of it, and that is why it needs to spread the transparency portal and encourage its use. We're willing and we're doing it. This country needs a government that is clearly fighting corruption, and that is why it is essential that the governing bodies are coordinated and set up mechanisms to deal with it. Either we can reduce corruption and tax fraud or we can't create a new country. This country needs the health system to duplicate the waiting lists, and that means more surgery, faster diagnostic tests, and quick access to the specialist. We must attack inequalities in health involving all government departments in an integral way. The Government must promote health and prevent malalties that have a social origin. This country needs a new model of mental health that returns patients to the community and reduces the number of patients from long-term centers. Say what the Spanish Government says, this country needs the law of universal access to salvation; everyone in Catalonia has right to sanitation. In this country we do not want to make citizens first and second. More. We want to be a modern country, and that means building, social cohesion and equal opportunities. This country needs to give support to innovation in education, especially those initiatives that offer a learning in skills and skills. We need to learn to learn, say experts, in accounts to pass on knowledge in a classical way. This will make us more competitive and more modern. We have to have a new decree in favor of inclusive school, and we'll have it. We need to develop specific plans that help find work for the most harmed, and we do. We need to recover the minimum income of insertion as right subject to the levels before 2011, and we are doing so. It is necessary to increase the control of labour inspection over those areas which generate job insecurity, and in particular against false autonomies and the illegal cessation of workers and false cooperatives, and we do so. And we use sanctions to respect, as has already been done, because we need to get old because the jobs that are generated are worthy. We will also push for a minimum wage increase of up to a thousand euros to achieve an effective job placement with decent work. Working for dignity in the world of work is building a modern country, and we do. This country needs as much as ever to improve the quality of the area, especially in metropolitan areas, and we will. We'll create a 21,000-point grid of electric vehicles, and we know how to do it. We also need to protect the rights of animals, as we have done, and we will do so as often as possible. We need a trade that is highly competitive, with a dense, next and varied offer, and we work in this sense. This country needs the police of the Generality, the Squads, to be full members of the international agencies of security and collaboration, and we will do so. This country needs modern and rapid justice, and that is why we are presenting a plan to implement the new judicial office throughout the territory. We're doing it. We need this country to respond to reality. A 90_per_cent of your territory is rural, and we are inverted. This country needs to manage from now on all the resources transferred and make its executive recap, prepare the Catalan Administration to recap the totality of the taxes, regulate the foreign trade, make the valuation and register of the real estate assets, and this is what we are working on, and that is what we have proposed in this general policy debate. To do all this, we have tried to hear with everyone – with everyone, and so you will see the votes – who, from the small margin of manoeuvre we have on this stage of autonomy, proposed changes in this sense. But with this we don't have enough, we don't have enough – we don't have enough. To do everything I have just said, to move from words to facts, there is only one way to change our hands. The change won't come down from the cell. The change doesn't have to authorize anyone. We're not subjects, we're citizens. The change can't deny us anyone – no one – and much less we have to deny ourselves. To move from words to facts, lower resolutions like some of the ones we have read; millions of resolutions like, for example, recovering all the buildings and creating a public park, of public housing: 15,000_million euros. A bit of rigor – a bit of rigor – at the time of making motions for resolutions. There are proposals for resolution that cost 15,000_million euros; this concrete Ciutadans record. Others offer an open game to be able to guarantee always more and from now on the guaranteed income of citizens: 4,000_million euros. To make these changes, to pass from words to facts, we cannot do so with these million-dollar resolutions and non-existent competitions without making any changes, starting only from the status we have. That's not possible. Either they bet on the change that makes these resolutions possible, or what they propose is an impossible one. They can't do what they propose from the status quo. Some of you compared to the general policy debate said that they would not ask impossible, but their settled resolutions, from the status quo, would be impossible. Some of you live by projecting a future that's impossible with an autonomous subway in which you live. For you autonomy is a roadway that is invisible because you don't see it, or you don't want to see it, but above all – above all, above all – you don't want to overcome it, and that's the door, ladies and gentlemen, to immobilism. For us autonomy is a clear limitation if we want to work for the citizen of this country – a clear limitation. That's a static bike. Some resolution proposals that have been written are only possible if they choose to take the handle of the switch, and then take the handle of the switch, take the switch for the switch, pull all folds and we go for the switch. Then we will make possible many of these resolutions that they present, which are impossible to implement with this clearly autonomous roadway.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.17.0	Mrs. Rovira, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.18.0	I'm done. That is why Catalonia needs a reference, because it needs to legitimize this change; a reference on independence, as it started in this intervention. That Catalonia decides, that it decides for everyone, that it can decide for everyone without anyone ever doubting the outcome. We make a reference with full guarantees, or we vote or vote, or we vote in favour of the change or we continue to resign in immobilism. And we have chosen to defend the change, we want to give ourselves permission...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.19.0	Mrs. Rovira, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.20.0	...we agree that some of you here are calling. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.21.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. Before we begin voting, Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.22.0	Thank you, President. For a point of order and legality in this House and in this vote we will do now. We would like to express the reason why our parliamentary group will not participate in some of the votes that will be produced at the length of this long vote. Unfortunately, today in this Parliament we will see the fracture that some are causing in Catalan society, because, obviously, those who believe that Parliament should not be forced, imposed, to vote on motions for resolutions that are the development of resolutions that have already been annulled by the Constitutional Court... I refer, in concrete terms, to Resolution 1/XI of 9 November, and also to the one to which it annuls, or suspects, better said, the conclusions of the Commission for the Study of the Constituent Procedure. I also want to add the existence of a report from the judicial services of this chamber that clearly say and warn that this type of resolution should not be put to the vote in this House. We announce that in the case of joint Junts resolution proposals for the Yes and the CUP, numbers 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6, we will not participate in the vote, nor will we do so in the 16th issue of the Junts for the Yes Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Millo. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.24.0	Yes; on a point of order, Madam President. In the same sense as the previous spokesman, we are not going to participate in the votes of the resolutions which we believe emanate from the decision annulled by the Constitutional Court and which are, in particular, resolutions 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the CUP and Junts pel Si. We understand that what exists here is a mere continuity in all these acts that Parliament is carrying out with regard to disobedience or failing to give due consideration to what is indicated to us by the laws and the courts. Therefore, on the understanding that it emanates from the same annulled resolution, we cannot participate in this vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.26.0	Oh, I'm sorry. I wouldn't know exactly, but, listen to the demonstrations of the rest of the doorman, we seem to have something to say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.27.0	A point of order, for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.28.0	For a point of order. We will vote on all the motions for resolutions, and on all those which have been tabled by parliamentary groups which differ greatly from our political views, and on all those which call for a constitutional and legal order which still exists today, and is said to be the tomb of laws which are absolutely necessary for us, such as the law of effective equality between men and women. Legitimacy is in this room, it's not in any other place. And then they say we're the ones who break up. We're giving a non-fracture lesson today, voting for everything we don't share. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.29.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.30.0	For the same point of order, to make it clear that yesterday we started a general policy debate, which is the result of this general policy debate which was presented yesterday and today we see these motions for resolutions, that the motions for resolutions are solely and exclusively consistent with the general policy debate. Therefore, there are parliamentary groups here who are absolutely always obsessed with pointing out that the decisions that are taken in this Parliament are based on earlier parliamentary initiatives. A general policy debate began yesterday; the result of the general policy debate was written down. We are voting on what we discussed yesterday and each – each – parliamentary group has the right to do its positions, to exercise them with the same rights and to vote on them as if it were in favour of it as if it were against it. Therefore, we would ask that no account be taken of the observations and comments that have been made by judging and prejudging some motions for resolutions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Simply if you don't agree with the political content and the political positioning you have a red button that says no, the price is already there. This is the parliamentary debate. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.31.0	Thank you, Mrs. Rovira. Let's continue with the Ple – let's continue with the Ple. Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.32.0	For contradictions. I invoke the rule paper that you have provided for me. Only, and very briefly, if I may, President, for contradictions with the words of the CUP spokesman, and also of Juntes per el Si. We will not participate in this vote, not because there is a political discrepancy, but because of legality, and so we have expressed. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that, at the Bureau meeting, where our request not to accept this motion for a resolution was rejected, the major speaker of this chamber made it clear and made it clear from the warning of his reasonable and legal doubts that these votes are being held without delay in this House. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.33.0	Mr. Millo, I think you didn't say exactly that, but the record will already reflect that. Thank you. Before the vote began, I say that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, for this plenary session Mrs Esther Niubó, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her group, Mrs Eva Granados. I would also like to say that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - the Constituent Creed has informed us that it withdraws the letter and the motion for a resolution number 7. We shall begin voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the different parliamentary groups in the order of entry into the register. In accordance with Rule 152.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the order of voting follows the order of presentation to the register for groups, carried by conjunctions and transactional, which are to be voted at the end. All proposals are considered to have incorporated the corrections submitted. I would remind you that, for voting on the motions for resolutions, we will always vote for the resolution of each of them. In the first place, therefore, we proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We are voting on proposal 1, on industry and tourism. The vote begins. In favour, 63; against, 72; abstentions, 0. The proposal on industry and tourism is rejected. We are voting on proposal 2, on energy transition. The vote begins. The proposal on energy transition was adopted by 88 votes to one, with 46 abstentions. Proposal No 3, on vocational and university training, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has been negotiated. Therefore, this will be the vote at the end. So now we are voting on proposal No 4 on employment. The vote begins. The proposal on occupation was adopted by 135 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No 5, on culture. The vote begins. The proposal on culture was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We will now vote on proposal 6, for an education system based on an equitable distribution of learning opportunities and the school success of all. The vote begins. The proposal on the education system based on an equitable distribution of learning opportunities and the school success of all was approved by 135 votes in favour, against and against. Let us now vote on proposal 7, on salutation. The vote begins. The proposal on salutation was adopted by 124 votes to 10, with 1 abstention. Let us now vote on proposal No 8, on resources for food aid. The vote begins. The proposal on the feeding grants has remained..., there is a tie in the votes: 62 in favour, 62 against and 11 abstentions. Therefore, according to the Rules, we will repeat this vote. The vote on resources for the fooder fellowships begins. The vote begins. We were exactly the same as before: 62 in favour, 62 against 11 abstentions. According to the Rules of Procedure, we now have to suspend the plenary for three minutes, allow Members to come in and come out, shout... even though it seems to me that the 135s, with the numbers, are here. And, therefore, we suspend for three minutes, because the Rules say so, and we will vote again. And I'm telling you, if the result is the same as the proposal, it'll be rejected. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did you agree to go on and not do the three minutes? Did you agree to go on and not do the minutes? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, the vote begins another time on the proposal for the feeding alleys. The vote begins. The result is exactly the same. Therefore, according to the Rules, the proposal will not prosper; it has been rejected. Let us now vote on proposal 9, on promotion of personal autonomy and attention to dependence. The vote begins. The proposal on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for dependence was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 10, on equality. The vote begins. The proposal on equality was adopted by 135 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal 11, on the quality of the public sector. The vote begins. The proposal was rejected by 52 votes to 62, with 21 abstentions. We will now vote on proposal 12, for territorial cohesion and the local world. The vote begins. The proposal for territorial cohesion and the local world was rejected by 41 votes in favour, 62 against and 32 abstentions. Now vote on proposal 13, on justice. The vote begins. The proposal on justice was adopted by 135 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 14, on innovative public procurement, socially responsible contracting and consumer rights. The vote begins. The proposal on innovative public procurement, socially responsible contracting and consumer rights was approved by 89 votes in favour, against and 46 abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal 15, on more resources against inequalities. The vote begins. The proposal on more remedies against inequalities was rejected by 27 votes in favour, 83 against and 25 abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 16, on autonomous financing. The vote begins. The proposal on autonomous financing was rejected by 27 votes to 83, with 25 abstentions. We are voting now on proposal 17, to put an end to the blocking of relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain. The vote begins. The proposal to end the blockade of relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain was rejected by 27 votes in favour, 72 against and 36 abstentions. We vote on proposal No. 18, on the federal reform of the Constitution. The vote begins. The proposal on the federal reform of the Constitution was rejected by 16 votes in favour, 108 against and 10 abstentions. Motions for resolutions... ; now vote on the motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. We vote for proposal number 1: « Bet for the dialog. The vote begins. The proposal was rejected by 36 votes to 99, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal number 2: "Administration, public function and institutional loyalty. The vote begins. The proposal on administration, public service and institutional loyalty was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 83 against and 15 abstentions. We shall then vote on proposal No 3: 'Economy and finance. The vote begins. The proposal on economics and finance was rejected by 47 votes to 72, with 16 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal 4, on support for the company. The vote begins. The proposal on business support was adopted by 96 votes to 38, with no abstentions. We now vote on proposal No 5: "Measures to promote employment. The vote begins. The proposal on measures to promote employment was adopted by 114 votes to 21, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal 6, for a tax on persons and economic activity. The vote begins. The proposal for a tax on persons and economic activity was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 98 against and 25 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 7: "Social welfare and third-sector entities. The vote begins. The proposal on social welfare and third sector entities was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 84 against and 15 abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No 8: "I support families. The vote begins. The proposal on support for families was rejected by 36 votes to 82, with 16 abstentions. We shall now vote on proposal No 9, on support for children. The vote begins. The proposal on child support was rejected by 36 votes to 98, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 10, on support for the great people. The vote begins. The proposal on support for large people was rejected by 27 votes in favour, 83 against and 25 abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal 11, on equality policies. The vote begins. The proposal on equality policies was adopted by 114 votes to 11, with 10 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No 12: "Education. The vote begins. The teaching proposal was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 99 against and 25 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 13: "Million of health care. The vote begins. The proposal on better health care was adopted by 114 votes to 21, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 14: 'Policies in agriculture'. The vote begins. The proposal on agricultural policies was adopted by 89 votes to 10, with 36 abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 15: "Policies in the field of territories and habitats. The vote begins. The proposal on territorial and habitat policies was rejected by 27 votes in favour, 83 against and 25 abstentions. We are now voting on proposal No. 16, on security policies. The vote begins. The proposal on security policies was rejected by 37 votes to 82, with 16 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 17: "End of justice and prison services. The vote begins. The proposal on the scope of justice and prison services was adopted by 124 votes to 10, with no abstentions. We now vote on proposal No 18: 'Culture. The vote begins. The proposal on culture was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 99 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 19: "The external action of all Catalans. The vote begins. The proposal on external action for all Catalans was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 99 against and 25 abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 20 on public communication media. The vote begins. The proposal on public media was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 72 against and 11 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We are voting on proposal number 1: "With regard to our democratic laws and our common space: Spain and Europe. The vote begins. The proposal on respect for our democratic laws and our common space, Spain and Europe, was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 83 against and 16 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal number 2: "Quality education and culture for everyone. The vote begins. The proposal on quality education and culture for everyone was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 72 against and 11 abstentions. We continue to vote on proposal number 3: "Efficient, transparent and unretailed sanitation. The vote begins. The proposal on effective, transparent and unretailed sanitation remained in place: 62 votes in favour, 62 against and 11 abstentions. Therefore, we will do the same system that we have done before, we will vote again; it is to say, we will vote for an efficient, transparent and without detail, we will vote again. The vote begins. The result is the same. Anyway, you know that, according to the Rules, we have to wait a while. If you decide you can't wait because we're all here, let's go back to voting. Are you going to vote again? [[Pause.]] So, go. We shall vote again on the proposal‘Efficient, transparent and unretailed sanitation. Those who make the proposal agree that we vote again, then? [[Pause.]] Okay. The vote begins, then. The result was the same, and, according to the Rules, the proposal is rejected. We shall now vote on proposal No 4: "A sustainable territory. The vote begins. The proposal on a sustainable territory was rejected by 47 votes to 72, with 16 abstentions. We then voted on proposal No. 5: "Interior, security and public order. The vote begins. The proposal on internal affairs, security and public order was adopted by 51 votes to 10, with 72 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 6: "A swift, efficient and depoliticized justice. The vote begins. The proposal on an agile, effective and depoliticised justice was rejected by 25 votes to 62, with 47 abstentions. We then proceeded to vote on proposal No. 7: "First people: children, young people, older and dependent people. The vote begins. Proposal No 7, 'First people: children, young people, older and dependent people, was approved by 63 votes to 62 with 10 abstentions. We continue to vote on proposal No. 8: "Fight against gender-based violence. The vote begins. The proposal was approved by 125 votes against and 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal No. 9: "Call for places for the Administration of Justice. The vote begins. The proposal on the summons of seats for the Administration of Justice was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 72 against and 11 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 10: "Freedom on motorways. The vote begins. The proposal on free use of motorways was adopted by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal No. 11: "Protection of whistleblowers from corruption cases. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So, let's go back... let's go back to this vote again. Estem voting for proposal No 11: "Protection of whistleblowers from corruption cases. The vote begins. The proposal on the protection of whistleblowers from corruption was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 62 against and 26 abstentions. We then voted on proposal No. 12: "Recovery and improvement of the rights of public workers. The vote begins. The proposal on recovery and improvement of the rights of public workers was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 62 against and 33 abstentions. Next... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Pardon me, it was rejected by 41 votes in favour, 62 against and 32 abstentions. Proposal No. 13, on the reduction of university fees and increase of scholarships, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has been negotiated, and therefore this will be voted on at the end. We are now voting on Proposal No. 14: "Freedom of text books, food grants and paralysis of the LOMCE application. The vote begins. The proposal on the free text books, feeding grants and paralysing of the LOMCE application was rejected by 41 votes in favour, 83 against and 11 abstentions. We shall continue to vote on proposal No 15: 'Support for self-employed people and SMEs and protection of workers. The vote begins. The proposal 'Support for self-employed people and SMEs and protection of workers' was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 88 against and 11 abstentions. We continue to vote on proposal No. 16: « Reduction of waiting lists and improvement of health transport. The vote begins. The debate on reducing waiting lists and improving health transport was approved by 64 votes to 61, with 10 abstentions. We now vote on proposal No. 17: "Funding system, downgrading of the IRPF and fighting fraud and administration reform". The vote begins. The proposal on the financing system, dropped from the IRPF, fought against fraud and reform of the Administration was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 88 against and 11 abstentions. We then voted on proposal No. 18: "Public housing to avoid the real estate bubble. The vote begins. The proposal on public housing to avoid the housing bubble has been rejected by 41 votes in favour, 72 against and 22 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 19: "Effective equality. The vote begins. The proposal on effective equality was adopted by 124 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal 20: "Democracy regeneration and effective fight against corruption. The vote begins. The proposal on democratic regeneration and effective anti-corruption has been adopted by 51 votes in favour, against and 82 abstentions. We will then vote on the motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. We are voting on proposal number 1: "Referendum. The vote begins. The proposal on the reference was adopted by 73 votes to 52, with 10 abstentions. [[Some applause.]] We will then vote on proposal number 2: "Guarantee of citizenship. The vote begins. The proposal on guaranteed citizenship income was adopted by 135 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] Let us now vote on proposal number 3: "Eradicate sexual assault against women. The vote begins. The proposal to eradicate sexual assault on women was adopted by 124 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal number 4: "To abuse. The vote begins. The proposal on abuse has been rejected by 21 votes in favour, 73 against and 41 abstentions. We then voted on proposal No 5: "Public education. The vote begins. The proposal on public education was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 7: "Dignified work...; sorry, 6. Let us now turn to proposal No 6: "Labour precariousness of health workers. The vote begins. The proposal on the precarious working conditions of health workers was approved by 124 votes to 11 with 11 abstentions. We now vote on proposal No. 7: "Dignified work and generation of occupation. The vote begins. The proposal on decent work and generation of employment was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Proposal No. 8, on public university, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has been negotiated and, therefore, will vote at the end. Let us now vote on paragraph 9: 'Energy: promoting self-consumption. The vote begins. The proposal on the promotion of self-consumption was adopted by 110 votes in favour, against and 25 abstentions. Let us now vote on Proposal No. 10: "Contaminants only. The vote begins. The proposal on contaminants has been approved by 124 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 11: "Water. The vote begins. The water proposal was adopted by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on Proposal No 12: « Interior. The vote begins. The proposal on the internal market was adopted by 99 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. Next we vote on proposal number 13, for a model of integral assembly in Catalonia. The vote begins. The proposal for a model for an integral assembly in Catalonia was approved by 123 votes in favour and 12 abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal No. 14: "Electoral law. The vote begins. The proposal on the electoral law was approved by 63 votes in favour, against and 72 abstentions. Let's now vote on proposal number 15, on the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. The vote begins. The proposal on the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. I note that 134 votes are sometimes cast and 135 votes are cast. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, I'm sorry, 133 or 134, 'cause there's a congresswoman missing, right? But if it was always the same maybe it would be a technical issue, I don't know. But maybe it's someone who doesn't vote, it's true. I didn't say "re." Let's continue the vote. We are voting on proposal No. 16, to push for a joint and consensual proposal by Catalonia to change and deepen democracy in the eurozone and the European Union. The vote begins. The proposal to push forward a pro- and consensual proposal by Catalonia to change and deepen democracy in the eurozone and the European Union was adopted by 114 votes to 10 with 11 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal 17, on the local world. The vote begins. The local world proposal was rejected by 27 votes to 98, with 10 abstentions. We will then vote on the motions for resolutions of the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes. Proposal No 1 on fiscal policy will be financed. The vote begins. The proposal on fiscal and financial policy was adopted by 99 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. Let us now vote on proposal 2, on cross-cutting and sectoral policies. The vote begins. The proposal on cross-cutting and sectoral policies was adopted by 83 votes to 36, with 16 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal 3, on international presence and compromise with historical memory and transparency. The vote begins. The proposal on international presence and compromise with historical memory and transparency was approved by 83 votes in favour, 52 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal number 4: "We build a state that guarantees the right to vote, to housing and to public services of quality. The vote begins. The proposal on 'Building a state that guarantees the right to vote, housing and quality public services has been approved by 83 votes in favour, 25 against and 27 abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal No. 5, on the right to salvation and the fight against inequalities. The vote begins. The proposal on the right to salvation and the fight against inequalities was adopted by 88 votes to one, with 46 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal 6, for a quality lesson. The vote begins. The proposal for a quality education was adopted by 78 votes to 46 with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal No. 7 on the promotion of social policies such as equal opportunities. The vote begins. The proposal on the promotion of social policies such as equal opportunities has been adopted by 109 votes in favour, against and 25 abstentions. We are now voting on proposal No. 8, on work as a tool of social realization. The vote begins. The proposal on work as a means of social realization was approved by 99 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal 9, on the scope for the competitiveness of the Catalan economy. The vote begins. The proposal on the competitiveness of the Catalan economy was adopted by 89 votes in favour, with 46 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 10, on security policies. The vote begins. The proposal on security policies was adopted by 89 votes to 10, with 36 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal 11, on policies in the field of justice and criminal enforcement. The vote begins. The proposal on policies in the field of justice and criminal enforcement was adopted by 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We shall now vote on proposal No 12, on culture, which is central to a free country. The vote begins. The proposal on culture, which is central to a free country, was adopted by 99 votes to 36. Let us now vote on proposal No 13, on policies for the agri-food, forestry and fisheries sectors. The vote begins. The proposal on agri-food, forestry and fisheries policies was adopted by 135 votes to none. Let us now vote on proposal No 14 on territorial policies and sustainability. The vote begins. The proposal on territorial policies and sustainability was adopted by 99 votes to 25 with 11 abstentions. We then voted on proposal No. 15 on vocational training. The vote begins. The proposal on vocational training was adopted by 124 votes to 10, with no abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 16, on state structures. The vote begins. The proposal on state structures was adopted by 72 votes to 52, with no abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 17, on the delleialities of the Spanish Government. The vote begins. The proposal on the Spanish Government's delinquency was adopted by 62 votes to 36, with 37 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. We vote on Proposal 7, on Catalan Countries. I would like to point out to you that in this proposal the letter c has been withdrawn, as we have indicated in the principle of voting. The vote begins. The proposal on the Catalan Countries was adopted by 72 votes to 52, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal No 8: "Prou politiques d'austerité. The vote begins. The proposal ‘Political austerity prob lems' [[some applause]] has been approved by 99 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on proposal No 9, for an alternative to deutocracy. The vote begins. The proposal for an alternative to deutocracy was rejected by 39 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the proposal. [[remorse of the voice]] ... – please, keep quiet, that we are voting –, we vote on proposal number 10, for fiscal sovereignty and redistribution of wealth. The vote begins. The proposal for fiscal sovereignty and redistribution of wealth was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 98 against and 1 abstention. We will then vote on proposal 11, for institutions without fraud hypocrisy. The vote begins. Proposal 11, for institutions without fraud hypocrisy, was adopted by 99 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 12, on strategic sectors and territories. The vote begins. The proposal on strategic sectors and territories was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 114 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 13, on sanitation. The vote begins. The proposal on sanitation was rejected by 21 votes to 73, with 41 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 14, on habitating. The vote begins. The housing proposal was rejected by 21 votes to 98, with 16 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 15 on education. The vote begins. The education proposal was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 73 against and 41 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 16, on disobedience to LOMCE. The vote begins. The proposal on disobedience to LOMCE was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 98 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on proposal 17, on rights and freedoms. The vote begins. The proposal on rights and freedoms was rejected by 38 votes to 97 with no abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 18, on feminisms and protocols for the prevention of male violence. The vote begins. The proposal on feminism and protocols to prevent male violence was approved by 99 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on proposal No. 19, on meetings and debt, to schedule payment plans. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] The proposal on joint ventures and debt, scheduling payment plans, was approved by 124 votes to 11 with no abstentions. We will then vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Alicia Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.34.0	For a point of order in this transaction that we have made together, to see if we can stretch a little bit of sentence that has now been put here at a point. In point 4, the final part of point 4, which says: « ascribed to the Occupational Service of Catalonia. It was just that, if we can pull it off, if all the groups agree, that end of sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.35.0	All groups agree? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Junts per el Yes, yes; Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, too. Looks like you're up to it. Therefore, it can be done. Okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, now, if you read us everything we'd vote for all the groups to know... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, all, no, the switch. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Rom... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Tell us the, uh, explain to us the little change he made some other time before he voted? Because that's what we're voting for now, isn't it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Isn't that it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.36.0	I'm sorry – I'm sorry – it's not that – it's not that. It was one. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , it was the following – it was the next – I'm sorry – I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.37.0	So, let's vote now. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs Romero, we're voting this now, and then you're gonna read us another time, and we're voting for it, okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, come on. Now we're going to vote on the joint proposal on assumptions and taxation, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, let's vote on this. The vote begins. The proposal on assumptions and taxation was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 73 against and 25 abstentions. Now they're voting for this. Isn't she close, either? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. So, now we are..., motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Catalonia Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, joint proposal to improve the welfare of children and young people. The vote begins. Go back to being the same as before, it seems. The proposal to improve the welfare of children and young people remained 62 votes in favour, 62 against and 11 abstentions. We repeat the vote. Therefore, the vote begins. Let's go back to voting on the proposal to improve... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Moreno, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.38.0	Yes, President. I would say to him that I can make a reading – it's three points, it's a short proposal – on which we are voting, please. [[Widow's remorse.]] If not, the third point only.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.39.0	Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.40.0	For this point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.41.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.42.0	Because the Rules think you're planning on asking for pre-vote reading, and we've already started voting here. Therefore, what the Rules say, in the event of an arrest, is that, in any case, they leave a few minutes and proceed to the vote; but they do not proceed to the reading, in this case. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.43.0	Let's have a look at it. Yeah, we'll read it, 'cause now this vote we're doing is new. So we look for it and read it. [[Greetings.]] The vice president will read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.44.0	"Third point: present yourself as a popular accusation, as stated in Article 91 of the Law 14/2010, of the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, in all cases of sexual abuse to infants or young people, beginning in the case of the Marists and the accused for the pedophile producer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.45.0	Let's go back to voting on this proposal, if that sounds like it. The vote begins. [[Greetings.]] The proposal was adopted by 72 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Motion for a resolution jointly submitted for the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si, Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot and the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Cree Constituent. This... yours... sorry, Mrs. Romero, yours, what have I said, you still don't see? [[Rialles. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Oh, okay, that's not a king. Okay, so, the vote's on. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] I'm sorry, huh? [[Pause.]] We're looking for him, huh? It's just that there's no title in the guidebook. [[Pause.]] Do the groups have any knowledge of what we are going to vote on? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, [[Pause.]] It's TTIP's, does it look like? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Well, that's it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's... so, we vote on this, which refers to the TTIP. The vote begins. The TTIP proposal was approved by 68 votes in favour. [[applause]] 14 against 53 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Catalonia Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, which is about the government's incompliments in relation to the plenary for social emergence and economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response. The vote begins. The proposal on the government's shortcomings in relation to the plenary for social and economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response was approved by 135 votes in favour, against and against. We will now vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot on housing for young people, increasing aid for the logue, rehabilitation of housing, housing for people with reduced mobility or occupied housing. The vote begins. The proposal on housing for young people, increasing aid for the logue, rehabilitating housing, housing for large people or people with reduced mobility and occupied housing was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 62 against and 36 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, Catalunya Yes it is Pot, Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent. [[Pause.]] Mr. Turull, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.46.0	Because we also want you to get this. And I think one day today is a very good time. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.47.0	It is proposal number 2, on responses to the justice system on the right to decide the Spanish State. [[Pause.]] Shall we read the resolutive part? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, it's going to be read by the first vice president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.48.0	"Response to the judiciary on the right to decide the Spanish State. A. In the last few months we have witnessed the demands of Spanish justice in elected positions for various political expressions related to the right to self-determination of Catalans and Catalans. That is, the right to democratically decide the country's future policy. B. The Parliament of Catalonia shows its support to President Arthur Mas and members of his Government, Joana Ortega, Francesc Homs and Irene Rigau for the open judicial cases from the participatory process of 9 November 2015. Support for the President and the Bureau of Parliament in the exercise of their functions. And support for Montse Venturos and Joan Coma and all the elected and elected associates persecuted for having approved support motions for the Catalan political process, for displaying the stellate or for other democratic votes produced at the municipal plenary. The Catalonian Parliament states that in a democratic society it is not conceivable that the persecution of elected officials or joint ventures for the fact that the political majority of their plenarys express the ideas they consider, democratically. C. The Catalonian Parliament expresses the commitment to defend all elected bodies that are threatened by the legal and police institutions of the Spanish State for the fact that they have expressed themselves or allowed expression of any democratic policy option.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.49.0	We shall now proceed to vote on Proposal No. 2, on the reply to the Court of Justice on the right to decide on the Spanish State. The vote begins. The proposal on judicial responses to the right to decide the Spanish State was adopted by 83 votes to 52, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We will continue to vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes and Parliamentary Group Candidate for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. Proposal No. 3 on the process constitutes 1. The vote begins. The proposal on the procedure was adopted by 72 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We will then vote on Proposal No. 4, on the procedure constituting 2. The vote begins. The proposal on the procedure constituted 2_has been adopted by 71 votes in favour, against and 12 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] We will then proceed to vote... – please, we are voting – we will proceed to vote on Proposal No 5, which is about the process. The vote begins. Apart from paragraph 3, the proposal on the procedure was adopted by 83 votes to none, with no abstentions. We shall then vote on proposal No 6, on the constituent procedure, apart from 4. The vote begins. The proposal on the procedure constituted, apart from 4, was adopted by 72 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We will then vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, which is proposal number 1, on reference, legal employment and guarantees. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sir... we started the vote. [[Remove from the view and see the background.]] Ah, it's what I asked for, Mr. Mirror. [[Jordi Turull and Black ask to speak.]] Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.50.0	Yeah, we wanted to ask you to read point c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.51.0	From the point...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.52.0	What.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.53.0	One hundred... what.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.54.0	That, yes, of Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.55.0	The vice president will read the c-point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.56.0	Letter c: « The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government to celebrate a binding referendum on the independence of Catalonia, as very late in September 2017 with a clear and binary question. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.57.0	Let us vote on proposal No 1, on referral, legal employment and guarantees. The vote begins. The proposal on reference [[strong applause and perlongats]] , legal tender and guarantees has been approved by 72 votes in favour, against 11 abstentions. [[The applause continues.]] Please, let's continue with the Ple – let's continue with the Ple. [[The applause continues.]] Please, let's continue with the Ple. Motion for a resolution jointly submitted for the Group of Junts for the Yes, Ciutadans, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, which is about the Revivals of the LOMCE. The vote begins. The LOMCE proposal on renewals was approved by 123 votes to 11, with no abstentions. And then we'll vote on the compromise resolution proposal that... [[Widow's remorse.]] All right. [[The president laughs. Greetings and Alícia Romero Llano asks to speak.]] All right, Mrs. Romero... now. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.58.0	Thank you, President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.59.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.60.0	I've had a lot of momentum and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.61.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.62.0	...I had to wait a little while, you've seen it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.63.0	No problem, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.64.0	Anyway, it's for, at point four...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.65.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.66.0	...we wanted to take the last half sentence. If you want, I'll tell you how we'd like you to stay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.67.0	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.68.0	"The Parliament urges the Government to set aside, as a matter of urgency, the Professional Training Centre of the Martorell Automoció.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.69.0	Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.70.0	It doesn't work, no, Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-06-2302.71.0	So, we will vote on the proposal with this change that Mrs. Alicia Romero told us. The vote begins. The proposal on the centre of Martorell was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. I want to thank all the parliamentary groups for this session. I think it's been a very, very fruitful, very productive session, and I want to thank them for their respect and, uh... And I think, thanks to Mrs. Alicia Romero, so we also had a moment of distension. [[Give me the applause.]] Very nice late.
