ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Asking the Government about feminisms]] [[300-00107/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on feminism, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - the Constituent cry. To expose it has the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.2.0	Well; very good morning to all, to the councillor, to the heads of the Català Institute of the Dones as well. Feminism is the radical idea that women are people. In fact, the struggle for equality, the demand for the rights of women, like any other movement of demand, goes from the moon, it takes a lot of time, and, therefore, it is plagued by histories, practices that have resulted from different forms of the planet, because it is also worth remembering today that feminism is not only white. We don't have time to look at the wide-ranging look that would certainly have on feminisms; we don't have time to talk about all their history, all their debates, their reptes, their conquests, debates that still exist today; but we will start with an act of honesty and explain some of what feminism we talk about. We conceive of feminism as the total challenge of the social and power relations established in patriarchal capitalism, a capitalism that has a logic of accumulation and privileges, and therefore needs exclusions and also rapes to consolidate it. Our feminism is also conceived as an intersecting struggle. We understand that people are not only oppressed as a genere, but we also have to add class, religion, cultural origin and, therefore, genere identities are also complex and not unique. We are supporters and fervently supporters of equality, which is why we often fight with so much force the empty speeches about equality, because we will only get to equality if we deepen the deep causes that explain inequalities and if we bet on policies of causal, structural transformation. We need to aim for the sexual division of labour, for example, to deepen the causes of inequality and to reshape it. We are also independent, and therefore we also fight subordination to interested aliens. And precisely because we are feminists and independents we know that only from the analysis of the subordination of women can we create an alternative to this subordination. And we are aware, therefore, that only contesting these subordinations will we achieve real and complete independence. What a pity we would do if we achieved independence, but you continued the half of the population, as at least, subordinated to oppression. We need to do a sorting of political bets, and this sort of thing we have today, so, in three favorite performances. First place: recognition. If they don't invisibly one, they'll invisibly all of us. Therefore, as a sincere and sincere recognition, we would dare to say, to all the women who have been part of the long feminist struggle. Without them, in fact, we'd still be a lot worse. It also makes visible the women who suffer rapes. We must make visible, too, inequalities, and to do so we must be able to seek complicity with women, with all women. That women know the inequalities of gender and, in fact, that men are also aware of the inequalities of gender. In fact, it is an awareness of the general population. The great victory of patriarchy, we might say, is that women are not likely to consider feminists, that women are ashamed to say that they are feminists and that they prefer to seek subterfuges for the sake of being fine and not as radicals. We must urgently create awareness, because if not, we cannot move forward. So that the new generations identify inequalities, stereotypes and social genera, which is why we are different from the world. We never want any more press headlines that name and life story of the killer and that don't even name the murder. In second place, among this tria: the feminist economy. "Capitalism and patriarchy, criminal alliance, we die. In fact, the right to a salaried job and also the bet for the distribution of all the productive and reproductive jobs, was already a claim of our company of the seventies, of the revolutionary feminists of the seventies. They understood that access to the labour market would help to generate a situation of economic independence and that, therefore, this would enable us to enjoy a project of propriety and non-subordination. Equal pay, elimination of any type of work discrimination, double working hours or the demand for public services that cover the need for care were claims made at that time and, in fact, are claims that are still being made now. At present, in the current phase of capitalism..., "crisis, in your gods. In fact, yesterday Councillor Junqueras spoke of crisis and we said 'pure and hard capitalism in one of its phases. This crisis, which in your Gods, has a face of women at this time. If we are already starting from an inequality in the attribution of value to the tasks that we carry out men and women, the current situation has still led to a more obvious setback. Retailers in public services want women to consolidate their caregiver functions. If the Bressol school is worth four hundred euros and the women, with much luck, can access a job of four hundred euros, it is obvious that the tria that realize the family units is that the woman does not go to work and that it is left performing the function of cure. In fact, if the cures were done by men they would be valued; the value of the cure is lower because we are the ones who realize it. Flexibility of the market against labor reforms: an obvious impact on women. We are in feminized, sexualized and precarious sectors; with low wages; with low qualifications; with low social recognition; with a greater incidence of temporality, with party days, return contracts, part-time; poor wage earner, and, obviously, reduction in contributions and, consequently, in the benefits to which we are entitled. Third place: male violence. "Excuse the pests, they're killing us. And we don't die: they kill us. The struggle against male violence must, in our opinion, be one of the main priorities of the country, of any society that wants to see with all its legislative body..., as is the case of our country and also of the Spanish State, which makes it see that it has a special protection of life. It's different when life is that of women, it seems. But it's that even all that could be absolutely perverse is that they take care of us only when we're already in the box. Violence is also that they attack us in the multiple forms of aggression that exist, violence is that they rape us or insult us; violence is also the calvary of the 83_per_cent of women who never get to report any type of violence; violence is also that they see us or crucify us; violence is the way we appear at the media. In fact we have seen that we are able to make statements to the standard when there are feminicides; we are after making minutes of silence; we are after making statements that may seem to be relatively blunt. But on the other hand, we know that male violence is not a priority when we are able to denounce the dead, but we do not place feminicides as the tip of the global and structural violence iceberg. We are aware that it is not a priority when we ask..., we continue to ask for explanations added to the women who have been assaulted, for example, by the street. « Why did you sail alone at those hours? Why are you dressed like that? How much alcohol did you drink? Report and bring to justice women who have denounced the tyranny of aesthetics or also companies who have claimed the most necessary abortion free and free. There is no determined bet to work on the phenomenon of violence from a community and cross-cutting perspective. We study, all of them much needed, but after the studies we do not implement them, we do not apply their recommendations. In fact, we don't put in certain forms or places of responsibility from the need that are covered for people with consciousness and practical feminists or, at least, with feminist formation. We don't focus enough on co-education. In fact, we are absolutely convinced that we will not achieve the so claimed equality while we have a model of schools that, among other things, secrete by sex – not only. We also need an integral plan at the level of communication media. We must make women visible and, in fact, we must be able to go far beyond quota policy. We, who, of course, defend quota policy, know that they are of little use, if these quotas are not, in part, covered by women who have a gender and a feminist view. We understand that we have a problem and we have a very difficult problem, because of its moral replica, because of its ethical replica; basically, because it affects the half, as at least, of the population and because we have the duty to solve it. We are aware that with a short intervention of two minutes or, at the very least, with the articulation of a young man we will not face the structural causes that it takes to advance in the land of equality, we will not face all the demands that feminism poses today. We would conform if we got out of this hemisphere had convinced some and some of us to claim feminists, to define ourselves as feminists is only the radical idea – so radical – that women are people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. To answer the words of Ms. Neus Munté, Presidential Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.4.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, ladies and gentlemen, you have done, in your intervention, the slaughter of male violence and, unfortunately, and of diumenge here, we must condemn and we must regret two new cases of feminicide in Catalonia, the People of Mafumet and Barcelona, a few days ago. And in what we wear from 2016 are seven women murdered at the hands of their peers or exparels in Catalonia. And there are, as we have agreed on many other occasions, gender stereotypes, but above all the inequalities that are in the origin of any form of violence against women, some gender inequalities – you also said it – that have relegated the woman to a secondary paper, eminently reproduced, and that behind this sad reality what we find are some causes of the whole structural. Therefore, it is obvious and I agree that public policies must be eminently transformative; but transformative in this structural sense, as the woman has been subordinated to the supremacy of the male role. If we look at various areas..., you mentioned the world of work, without going any further – there are no others – where you see sadly and graphically this reality coughed up, to which you also refer now. If we look at the field of work, as you do, despite the better training, qualification and qualification of women, inequality is obvious, not only from a point of view of salary but also of precariousness of work in its conjunction, with part-time contracts, under lower; in short, indiscriminate of women's talent. A higher level of format which has not translated into a reduction of inequalities in the field of work, years on the other hand. It is also clear that the crisis that we are patenting does not affect everyone alike and affects women in a more cruel way. In fact, the poverty risk rate of people working also shows this reality. The crisis affects more women than also working men, this is an obvious fact, which also has negative consequences, both in terms of lower pensions and lower unemployment benefits. And we could continue with the presence and visibility of women, both in the field of politics and in the world of business, in the private world or in the media. You started your questioning about feminisms, feminisms that come from the moon. Believe that our will is to put in value – to put in value and to do so, as you said, every time more and more urgently – all those actors and all those entities of the feminist movement in all their transversality and plurality, which, along with their existence, has fought to eradicate the many rights and inequalities that we have pending as a society. This year 2016 we celebrate the twenty years of those First Catalan Days of the Lady, which, from different groups and also with much force from the vein movement, have identified the situation of lack of right and freedom of women: the right to work, but also to divorce, abortion, and freedom to live without rape. And we've moved on in a lot of fields, and there's been some transformations, but it's pretty obvious that the way we're going is huge. In the world of work we have incorporated ourselves massively, yes, but it is also kept segregation by tasks, which ultimately means segregation by responsibilities and, therefore, also at the sub-level. And in the distribution of family daily tasks, let's say as we say, we could say, colloquially, that the women have gone out of the house but the men have not come in. Initiatives such as hourly reform, without going further, also pretend, in this new balance of working time, also, to achieve this objective of equity and a more equitable..., rebalancing of the tasks of domestic or family care. And you've made reference to communication space, to political space, and it's obvious that women are not in fair proportion, and that has an effect, too, very perverse, because this lower presence of women in representation and decision-making places, which is not less important, causes a lack of women's reference patterns that, in not being visible or sufficiently visible, therefore, do not exist and do not complete with the task that we all want. I'd say we're visible, but not enough. Legitimate, we are at all; but this greater visibility, in change, provokes very – very – aggressive responses and reactions. For what he does to the chess of masculinist violence, and again to take up this time period of the twenty years to which he refers recalling those first Catalan days of the woman, they have also made advances, unquestionably, from the optics of legislation, without going further with the standard marches that we have in Catalonia; also for what he does to the resources and the network of services for the victims of masculinist violence and to his sons and daughters. But all of these adventures are, in effect, short in finding the names of women who still face threats to these situations. You said: those we know, those who denounce, those who address an administration or a specialized social entity; but especially all those invisible victims, women who suffer any situation of violence, the type that follows, but who do not appear to the statisticians. And believe 'that we are very concerned, and we are very concerned, about the Government of the Generality, all this mountain of women, people and their children who suffer from this situation and who are not yet incorporated into the normalized circuit for such power, so proceed to an integral intervention as we would like. Speaking of the labour market and the discrimination that still exists, let us say, if it is especially safe that we suspect a part of the law passed in this Parliament, of effective equality between men and women, by the work and grace of the Government of the People's Party and the Constitutional Court, precisely because they suspect those instruments, those mechanisms of intervention of administrations in an area, employment, where these discriminations are produced, exist and are especially cruel. But we have the compromise, as you know, and we are working with trade union and business organizations through the Labour Relations Council and others, to pull forward and to keep the effects suspected of this law. I fully agree with you in the relationship you have established between feminism and independence. In fact, we would find at the length of our history a very important link, also, with this feminist look and the Catalanist or independentist movement. And it also coincides that in the constitution of the new state that we are building, a female look is essential to eradicate some of these situations that we are mentioning when we talk about wage differences, despite developing the same job; a new state where feminicide, male violence, ceases to become a scourge that we must lament, effectively, mass – mass – often, because whenever there is a single situation we can say that it is already mass often; a new state where women do not primarily suffer from an economic crisis and where we can have much more powerful ones to cope with precariousness and poor women. In fact, the best listening to face this is nothing more than a job and a decent salary. A state where full guarantees of access to women are given to all spheres of representation and decision making, free of discrimination by sexual orientation and where the right to motherhood is exactly that, a right, and not, in any case, a penalty. In short, one can overcome existing inequalities; a state free of discrimination. Before I run out of time, I point out some of the elements that I will want, therefore, to add to the second part of the inquiry, after listening to you, on the instruments that we have, and this Law 17/2015, of effective equality between men and women, in its totality, in its globality. But I'll also want to make it about the need for complicity and colza work with the communication media. You know that we have already started the work, concretely, with the Catalan Audiovisual Council, with the ACC, so that we can detect from the network those attacks, those messages that are denigrating, for which it does the image of the woman, but that also tempt against her dignity or that represent, therefore, directly an element of violence towards the women and that, by virtue of this agreement that we continue to develop in the proper months, we carry before the prosecution of hatred and discrimination any of these initials. Communication media must be an ally [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , not only to give a positive image of women, but also to incorporate many more voices – many more voices – women to any type of debate that is produced, I insist. I'm running out of time, I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.6.0	It would seem, Madam Counsel, that you share so much the analysis that we have done that you do not really only define yourself as a feminist, but you form part of this government to act as a feminist key. It's not bad people, actually. We are the first to recognize that in our political space we still have a lot of work to do. In fact, we have entered this Parliament as a parliamentary group with a composition of men that did not satisfy us; we have improved on this occasion and, therefore, we also start with the necessary self-criticism, but I do not know if your Government's joint is so clear on the issues that you raised in the reply. In fact, the government you form part of has a 36_percent of women, but they only named one in the rank of secretaries-general. I don't know if you have any type of ability to impact on this type of names. We have, in fact, the largest staff in the country, the Generality staff, we have more than 200,000 workers; in fact, 132,000 are women; we only have 68,000 men working in the Generality. The disproportion is 2 to 1, but it is an inverse disproportion in the high levels of responsibility, in the free name and designation. Therefore, something must be corrected in this sense. At the university level we already have 50_percent of teaching women; but, in change, in the higher levels of responsibility we only have 20_percent. So, it's not like I'm looking at women, it's like I'm looking at women. In the assumptions, and because we're talking about it yesterday, and we'll keep doing it, we didn't know how to finish finding the impact of genera. In fact, three times in the explanatory memorandum of assumptions there is the concept of gender, not the feminist concept. Where is the bet decided why the Català de los Dones Institute is really an institute of feminisms, what should it be? How many feminists do we have in front of the Institute's programs? What criteria do we follow to name the top posts of the Catalan Institute of Donations? Are we looking for feminist activists, feeling consistent with this necessary recognition that we have to make to the people who have campaigned in this cause? In fact, do we follow feminist criteria when we name people in departments of the highest responsibility in this area, such as Education, Health or the same Presidency? In fact, the Català de los Dones Institute has lost qualified personnel with feminist training and awareness, with a system of staff functioning that makes any employee, without any specific training, able to find in front of the deployment of programs that need very high expertise. So we don't just have to recognize the value of women. "We have all the legitimacy," you said; "it is obvious, but we have to prove it; we have to prove that those people who have campaigned, that those people who have tried to train and sensitize themselves have a recognition and are the people who are right in front of the deployment of these policies. What happens to the strategic spectrum of gender equality policies – or as the incumbent? How are we doing? Who are we focusing on? What do we do with the results of the evaluation study? - I've been doing it before. Yes, we do – we do – study, and we have studies, in fact, very interesting about what happens to the care network and full recovery for women in a situation of male violence. The evaluation of SIAD networks, for example, or the GenderCat report, point to a change implementation that very often and explicitly explains that they do not need more economic resources and that in changing with an effective leadership of the Catalan Institute of Women in feminist matters we would compensate for many situations that are given at this time. We call transversal action, which is not the same as interdepartmental action. There must be orders that they come from above because they act with transversality of genera and that this ceased to be an empty word. The feminicides, we understand, and you said, can have the perverse effect that we focus just the hardest situations, but that we can't visualize that patriarchy has many other types of rapes to make, precisely, the most dramatic culmination in the dead. But there have died in life: let us not forget the sin-treaty of many women when they are about to denounce; let us not forget the details that existed in the two governments of Artur but in policies of combat of male violence, details that we have not reversed; let us not forget what situation we have in jutjats. And it's not all about the Constitutional Court; we could be training jutjat personnel and get back all the auxiliary personnel we've also been hosting at the time. I'm done, Madam President. It is no longer just us that want to change things for our daughters – it is often said that our daughters and children find a better world – no. We have decided that we want to change things for our seas and our ancestors, because they deserve it too. And for that reason, we don't have much time left. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, I don't know if your ideas that we are gathering are right or that we too can have them on our own. And it certainly is good that it is so, and that, more importantly, we agree, and more in a matter as sensitive as it is. With these scarcely five minutes, various questions, honourable Member, to try to highlight the task that we actually carry out with the necessary cross-cutting, which is a step more and much more effective than interdepartmentality, which, in any case, is a step forward that can be achieved when in focus what is a first-class objective such as this is. Transversality that is carried out by the Catalan Institute of Donations, which the Department of the Presidency – because this Parliament also wanted it by virtue of the Law of Effective Equality, which was approved in the previous legislature – can provide for what it does to the impulse of the policies of genere and incorporating this perspective of genere, which will also arrive because it is the mandate of the law, in the press of the Generality. Feminisms don't go together, I absolutely agree. They force us to rethink the whole set of public policies: from urbanism and mobility, through sport or the economy; indeed, all spheres of action, in this case, of the country's government and its regulations. And we would have to talk about feminism effectively all the time, because as much as it does to the more theoretical currents as to the social movements that have been driving it, there are many different perspectives, and that, moreover, as it is logical, they have gone changing and have gone adapting to time, but with a common objective, that it is changing the relationships of existing genera to balance them and seize the women, eliminating the masculinity and misogyny of all spheres of action. Miri, I'm moving on to concrete things. You refer to the staff of the Català de les Dones Institute. It is currently composed by forty-six people with experience and training in the field of equality policies; fifteen people, concretely, of the higher body. The Law 17/2015 marks the existence of professionals of gender equality. And in this sense, we are already talking with Public Service so as to recognize this professional figure of gender equality, in the relationship of work places, I mean, particularly in the organs that must age for effective equality between men and women. The Català de los Dones Institute – and I have not greeted its president and executive director before – offers access and necessary training so that all the people who occupy these places can develop their functions with the required professionalism and expertise, in specific training and in continuing training. And we would define a special training plan for ICD workers, especially for new entrants. Also, through the School of Public Administration of Catalonia, with whom we have already begun to work a basic, progressive and permanent training in the matter of equality of women and men addressed to all staff and taught by expert staff, precisely to make the Law of Equality effective and to guarantee practical and sufficient knowledge that allows us to incorporate this perspective of gender into the Public Administration, according to our brand, also Article 16.4 of the Law. And, I insist, we are already in contact with the School of Public Administration to move forward in this matter. Of the more concrete aspects, also, of his intervention, instruments: the Observer of the Igualtat of Genère. Most recently we had the opportunity of having President Pitarch and myself, in appearance in the Committee on the Equality of Persons, to advance in what point is the..., to deal with already the decree to regulate this Observer of the Equality of Gender. Believe that we do implement and draw conclusions from all those studies and reflections from all those organs that come to us so as to improve our public policy in this matter. Recently, last week, we were meeting the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Male Violence, and it was possible to manifest not only those programs developed by different departments of the Government of the Generality with this same objective, but also to know, for example, the conclusions of the First Congress of Male Violence, which was held recently, this year 2016, at the Illustre Col·legi d'Avocats de Barcelona, with a whole series of considerations and conclusions that we also implement in the judicial field, in the educational field, in the world of work, and, of course, also in this integral vision that we intend to be able to offer from the Catalan Institute of Women. Our compromise is total, it is a priority of this government to fight against male violence, but the best position and the search for opportunities and equality for the combination of women. I hope we can find, too, elements of coincidence in the subsequent motion. Thank you for this question, which is always interesting, and also for the assistance and assistance of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the right to die decently]] [[300-00108/11]] The next point of the order of the day is: it asked the government about the right to die dignity, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.10.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, to give welcome also, today, among our public, to members of the Association for the Right to Dying Dignity, who are who have been asking us, in fact, to the Members and Members of this Parliament in compliance with this topic in a constant way, and especially the later months, in which we have asked to come to explain how the situation is both to the Commission of Justice and to the Health Committee ; and, basically, it is from his work and from his information that we made this inquiry. Look, now that I'm more full of life than ever before, I think you know that and it's pretty obvious, that I'm doing a little bit of a lump, I wanted to talk about death. And it's that this is a taboo issue for our society, but in the Parliament of Catalonia we collaborate that it's taboo. We are not talking about death; we have not spoken on occasions, at least debates about..., initiations in respect of how we die, in this Parliament of Catalonia in the last twenty years, they fall into one hand, the times in which this topic has been discussed. And it is, in fact, the only security we have in our lives, that we will die, both of the 135 deputies and deputies of this chamber as of all the citizenship we represent. So it might be worth talking a little bit more in this Parliament, too, to work together to end this taboo, respect how we die. Talk to us and not talk to us, in fact, do us, so also complicit in the problem we have, mainly, on this subject, which is that there is very little information. Citizenship has very little information about respect for its rights, of how to have a dignified death, and the professionals of the health system, socio-sanitary, also have very little information about respect for the rights of the patients, rights that have been regulated by this chamber and by the Government of the Generality, right to die worthily that we have, in our Statute of Catalonia, recognized. It makes two _messions this same reflection, also, from the appearance to the Health Commission of the Association for the Right to Morir Dignament, and it offered me to collaborate, and that my group collaborated in the sense, precisely, to make visible this theme, to talk to it, to open up debates, but also to convey those concrete proposals of things that are not working yet well enough to guarantee this right to the Government of the Generality. And it's in this sense, counselor, that I'm asking you this question, because if anything shows us in the Health Commission with that appearance, it's that we're still dying badly in Catalonia. Catalonia has been at the forefront of the law on the patient's rights, in the registry of early vows, in the development of palliative cures; but, unfortunately, to the Association for the Right to Morir Dignament they continue to arrive periodically complaints that the system does not work as it should. They explained to us cases, for example, when they came to the Commission of Justice, such as that of a man of eighty-eight years of cancer surgery, and when they were operating it they discovered that it was much harder than had been predicted and paralyzed the operation, and therefore they did not mislead him to solve the problem and therefore he was navigating to death. This man had made a document of early vows asking that he not wake up in a case of this type, and, in change, he was probed and had to spend time drawing blood, with frightening pains, patting..., and when he then asked, "Please help me finish my life, they said to him: "No, look, this is not legal and we can't afford it in the system. The whole fold was coming to this point because he didn't respect himself, did he? , his document of early vows, which he had made, which he had communicated to the hospital, which existed. We can't get to cases of this type, and more when this right we have it regulated and guaranteed in our system. There are still too many cases – there is already too much, but there is still too much because this is not the only one – of people who are painting unnecessary suffering at the end of their life in Catalonia and many people who die badly when it would not be hot. Still too often there is this avoidable patience in hospitals, in residences; people under hard, invasive procedures that are not just..., go, basically only manage to make us die slower and more painful, but do not avoid it or the fan better. This same science, this same technology, this same medicalization allows us, if we use it well, to reduce patience in this process when it's irreversible, and, in turn, it's not the most common thing we have in our system. We're still dying, too, too often, unintimately, in a space just right to share the pain with the people around us, with... with no psychological follow-up planned to take on what you see when it's possible to do it in... when it's an end of a process of malaise. And it's that less than 20 percent of Catalans and Catalans are dying at home, which doesn't mean that this is guaranteed to die better, to die at home, but neither is it? They're probably sorting it out in a lot of cases. And mass often still die, too, without dignity. Now that I am also living in the first person, and allow me this personalization in this inquiry, as if you are allowed to sort women as parim in our system, I have more of the contradiction than you may wonder how we die or reflect respect for how we want to die in those things that we might well predict depending on the case when we arrive at this death. And we don't need to, because we've got it regulated, because that doesn't have to be that way. But what's going on, what's going on? So in many cases, as I said, because of the lack of knowledge of the very rights of the same citizenry and of its relatives, because of the lack of awareness of the legislation on the part of the care workers and because of the lack of resources to take care of the entire population that I required and that I need. Let's go to pams, and get to the concrete. We don't know, from the city, these rights, because we don't talk about it, because it's a taboo, but it doesn't seem like that. There are materials, there are campaigns to be able to do it. And it doesn't get like it can be that at a time like the present, that in the 21st century, that in full 2016, at a time when we are campaigning about preventing traffic accidents, about lighting firecrackers with security, about how not to bite a jellyfish or what to do when a jellyfish bites you, or how to avoid the grip, we're not talking, too, making campaigns like government, respect how to plant how to die more dignifiedly. There is the document of anticipated wills or the vital will; only 69,000 people had registered it in September 2015, a 1_percent of the population. Something goes beyond misinformation. Another important issue is the procedure to do it and to register it, which does not make it easy for this increase to give you only a 1_percent of the population. Whether to sign it or not by notaries, paying the corresponding minute, or with three witnesses. I can't do it like that. There are experiences, in Navarre itself, that were explained to us from the Association for the Right to Die Dignity, in what they only do before a public function, with full capacity, is not enough. I'm sure they can modernize us, too, in this sense. I would like to make sure that it is very visible that that person... – and easy to recognize – that that person has made a document of anticipated wills, when you have to comply, medically. In the health care sector, there are systems to make it much more visible than it is now, because we guarantee that people are satisfied with their wishes. This is about the lack of awareness of the same citizenry and its environment in accordance with these anticipated intentions. But there is also the disconnection, the saying, of professionals who respect these rights and what the law says, not only because there are resumes to these themes, for the training of health personnel, but also for the staff around them, such as clinical psychologists, social workers, who should also be formed in this sense. There is a lack of training in the career, but there is also a lack of training in the continuing training of a professional in the sociosanitari system. This would secure the same professionals in respect of what they can and cannot do, "secure the professionals who directly meet the people in their death process, because the rest of their professional environment would also support them. But, besides, I would also allow the same professionals to ask these key questions to the patients, not only when you are already in a death process, but at any time in your life, you are questioning yourself and asking yourself concrete questions why you ask, as in the case of an embarras, right? And by the time you give birth, about how you want to be dead. And a third element, I told them: palliative cures. There's been some detail, counselor. There is a good system – it is true, that in three decades it has been created – from PADES to all of Catalonia, but there have been details. And that's why, at the moment – it wasn't fully implemented enough and the details have also affected it – only one of the five PADES teams in Catalonia remains complete, with all the necessary multidisciplinary teams: metgessa, infirma, psychologist, social worker; that, besides, there are no PADES in all times, and death doesn't respond to timetables or working days or holidays. And, therefore, if you die at night or die at a feast, most likely, even though your CAP has a team of PATES, you will not be as warm at that delicate moment. Or that, for example, there is only a team of PADES specialized for infants to all Catalonia, that of Sant Joan de Deu. Three very clear basic needs that I think I need to attend to and that I would like you to answer, counselor. And one last: dice, how do people die? And from the Association for the Right to Morir Dignament, repeatedly, we ask an observer of death. Data and ability to analyze these data, which would also allow us to make public policies a little more effective and effective in respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word the Lord Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Members, Members, I also start with a more anthropological, philosophical reflection: it is true that our society speaks a little about death, but this is quite universal, because in the great human experiences all the history of culture explains to us that language is short; among other things, there are cultural manifestations, such as art, such as religion, and even liturgy, which try to precisely compensate, to supplant this powerlessness of language at the time of talking about love, love, and death. And that's pretty universal in the history of culture, huh? The difficulty of societies..., is much studied by anthropologists, philosophers, historians, the difficulty as different civilizations have spoken of death, and they have all spoken with difficulty. Now, it is true that our modern society, in this sense, has been said so many times, it is a promising society, in which we thought that the technical progress and the technological progress... – the Faust, of Goethe, would be the great half-way in this sense, right? – we thought that the technical progress and the scientific progress would make us immortal. Faust is the great allegory of this promising spirit of modern society. And in this sense it is probably the society that has given the most bait to death, of all the societies and all the cultures that have passed away. So, actually, it's a cultural, spiritual change, isn't it? , which we have with modern society. Now we know that technological progress does not only not alleviate death, but that it sometimes provokes – it causes – unnecessary deaths, right? ; is the great lesson of the 20th century. And getting into the matter... because you've put a lot of fears about the table, concrete, and I'd like to be able to answer them all. First, the cases versus the norm. The two are the responsibilities of the government and the administration, but we have to distinguish. We need to ensure that we have the right regulation, the right regulation, and then, even if we have the right regulation, this does not rule out that we can give cases where it is wrong to do so. So, here's a regulatory task – in this sense we have to discuss whether we have regulation on our hands today – and then there's the task of ensuring that the hundreds and hundreds of thousands..., well, drawings of thousands of professionals actually behave in accordance with this rule, as in so many other areas of the Administration where we have proper standards, and..., violations or behaviors of professionals who do not comply with this rule, right? But cases... unfortunately, the probability that there is never a case of inadequacy to an appropriate standard is very low. I don't mean we don't have to look for this object, but there's never a case of inadequacy that's low. I'm saying this because this case you were explaining, obviously it's dramatic, but it's not respecting a rule that was in this case. Intimidated; you gave me intimidated. The hospitals of our country make a great effort. When I see hospitals, most of them... I don't ask them, they explain to me, on their own initiative, how they try to deal with the end-of-life moments that come to them many times in a survivable way and with difficulty before – acute hospitals–, and what are the spaces and how they seek the intimacy of the family, the intimacy of the patient, and how they seek non-shared spaces, including in emergencies, because there are situations in emergencies sometimes also very critical. And, of course, the socio-sanitary; why, to the socio-sanitary, the share of palliative cures is precisely built with this philosophy of ensuring the intimacy of the patient, isn't it? , at the last moment of life. And then, for what he does with the subject of psychology and follow-up, which is very important, precisely one of the most important initiatives that we have at these times in Catalonia in the field of palliative care, which is Observer Qualy..., which I certainly want to make a recognizance of the task that Dr. Gómez-Batiste has done in this country for many years, because there has been the intellectual and practical leader of this very good work that has been done in Catalonia in the field of palliative care, early intentions, etcetera, for many years. And for some reason we are..., the Observers Qualy is the reference center of the WHO, of the four– I think there are four in the world– WHO referents for this issue. And one of the objectives of the Observers is precisely to incorporate psychological care in a stable, permanent way into the teams, because that's important, too, this follow-up, isn't it? For what he does to the early volunteer document, see, four very quick questions, if not, he won't give me time to answer everything. Very well, you're right, Congresswoman; there are only 68,000 people, which means that this is a 0.9_percent of Catalans, but we are 30_percent of the total state, 16_percent of the population. It means that we are doubling the Spanish medium; it means that in Catalonia we have much to gain, but that we are clearly, clearly, clearly going forward in this matter. That is to say, the place of the State in which there is a fee to arrange, record documents of higher anticipated volunteers is Catalonia. It is already part of the shared clinical history. I mean, the only document that hasn't made a health professional that can hang on to HC3 is the early volunteer document. Don't put it on the health net. Any professional who accesses the clinical history finds in that clinical history the document of anticipated volunteers, if so decided by the patient. So, it's not on the target, it's in a much more important place, which is its clinical history, huh? because it's designed for the system. And it's true that we need to spread, that we're spreading and that we probably don't need to do any more. We also have to say that since the year 2014 there has been an important increase in the rate of realization of new documents of anticipated wills, but here there is also a question of cultural change and generational replenishment in this sense, and, therefore, the new generations are more sensitive to all this, and, therefore, this also has a natural demographic evolution. Now, disclosure? Yes, all: dissemination through the Pla director sociosanitari, who does some online courses, precisely, about this issue, which, therefore, is directed to the population most potentially interested in this issue; dissemination through entities, like, for example, Oncolliga de Catalunya; you agree with hospitals because the same hospitals are promoters of this issue– for example, the agreement with the Hospital de Sant Pau. You can access the document of anticipated volunteers through the portal La Meva Salut. The My Greeting portal is a very powerful instrument that we still need to take out, extrude much more potential in many senses, for example in this one. And it should be the great mechanism of access of any citizen to the possibility of making this document of anticipated wills. And the Office of the Citizen's Service of the Generalitat also broadcasts and disseminates with respect to this document. Professional training: very important, for which we say before, because a good standard applies correctly. And, therefore, the professionals must be trained. It's done, but does it have to do more work, or do it go on the way we're working at these times, what is it, in professional training? – because it's not a case, huh? Because it's not a case like what you've been talking about. First, a maximum degree accreditation in the framework of the Palliative Care Strategy, state, because all PADES professionals are accredited at this highest level– this is one of the lines of work in formation– ; to promote basic training at the undergraduate level, eh? And then there's a lot... there's a docent offer, at the academic level, important, in various universities, in relation to this question, postgradus, etc., and here's, again, Dr. Gomez-Batiste's leadership. For what he does to the PADES, it is certain that the PADES are a service that works with great satisfaction on the part of the citizens who then do the valorization, who are the family members. The rating of the PADES on the part of the citizens is very high, huh? That's what the data says. But the PADES were born precisely in the context of the unreformed primary care centres, when there were still unreformed primary care centres, and therefore we have never built the PADES in a structural way linked to the primary care. And now, what's the point we have in the Strategic Primary Care Reform Platform? Adequate integration between the PADES and the primary. And, in fact, this is one of the lines of the Pla de Salut. The Health Plan, in advance, with the approval of the Primary Care Reform Plan, already foresees as one of the lines the reorganization of the PADES, the construction of a network of pediatric PADES – it is certain, in this country, and I take it, that we cannot depend on a single unit of Sant Joan de Deu with pediatric PADES – and we must be able to make this integration, which is to allow us to answer many of the questions that you identified. Horaris. If the primary care has already guaranteed continuous care, primary care, and emergency primary care, and the PADES are well integrated into the primary care, we will resolve the continued care of PADES, week-ends, nights, estu, etc., and guarantee us, too, the composition. For what he does to the observer, very briefly. It should be an interdepartmental initiative, not exclusive to the Department of Health. But from the Department of Health we already do things, three: study of care at the end of life through the Pla director sociosanitari – here we study data –; the Central Outcomes, very important – and with this end – is preparing a monogram in these moments on the last year of patient care, which will give us a lot of information, and then the same Observer Qualy; as I said, it is not an observer of the Government, but in this sense it also completes this function, which does not mean that it is not possible to put on the table the initiative of building an observer of the Government on questions related to the end of life but in an inter-departmental clause. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. Got the word Mrs. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.14.0	Well, counselor. Thanks for the information of some of the elements that are working, obviously, but still unnecessary..., and therefore I believe that from the young man who will come out, from this inquiry, we can probably do..., to prevent, that it is our function also from the opposition, that still better things in the government. To engage, as I said, in the element of information to the citizenry. No, it is not enough with what currently exists and it is not enough the work that is done either with this information to improve the same public policies, to improve in training elements for the care staff and to improve especially in information elements for the citizenry. Hanging things on the web is not information: we have proof. It's no use... it's no use hanging information on the web, it's no use to get this information to the citizenry. There has to be a different proactivity. And in the end, all this, counselor, ends up with resource requirements too, and this is the most concrete question I would ask him for his last intervention: what do they foresee, now that he already has the assumptions going on and, therefore, can predict what will happen in his department, what do they expect the year to be allocated to concrete projects, to concrete programmes, to concrete proposals in this sense and for this topic? There is one element that we have not dealt with and that we obviously also introduce in the motion, because if it is true that we in Catalonia have been caught up in this subject, in the regulation of how to have a better death or a more dignified death, in what we have skills, we also have to be pushers and we also have to be caught up in changing the laws, and I would already touch on the contradiction that in a secular, modern, 21st century state, we have been penalized by euthanasia or assisted suicide. And this room can be a driving force for the rest of the state because it's changing this. He tried, this room, on previous occasions and for a very little while we didn't get out, we approved. The Congress of Deputies has also tried on two occasions in recent years and the absolute majority of the People's Party has fallen. Now there are different opportunities, there is also a proposal working from the same Congress of Deputies, from the United We can, in which, for example, there is a Catalan deputy, like Marta Sibina, working on it, but we believe that it is also worth it that the Parliament of Catalonia pushes forward a proposal..., and so it is asking the rest of the parliamentary groups, that we do, a proposal of law and that, therefore, we also speak in this political motion to be consistent with what our own citizenship says. And it's that the questions, which are valid but which have always been repeating the same, the last ones that have been made, tell us that a large majority of the citizenry wants this to be different rules. We were told by the latest CIS in 2009, made to Spain, that 70_percent of the citizenry is in favour of regulation; we were told by this fact to all of Europe in 2015, which tells us that only 7_percent of the European population is against assisted suicide or euthanasia being viable. And it is that this is an issue of individual right and freedom guarantee, and like all individual freedoms, while you do not encounter the freedoms of others, it must be possible. And, therefore, this is also one of the themes that this Parliament can once again be driving for the rest of Spain, because we can, well, finish regulating it as it has done in Belgium, as it has done in Holland, as it has done in Luxembourg, as it has done in Switzerland, Canada or many states of the United States. A freedom like this must also be in our regulated laws. And one last point, counselor, for one of the statements he made. It's true that death is taboo all over the world, but it's also true that there are experiences and that there are cases that show us that it doesn't have to be so, and they also explained it to us in one of the appearances of the Association for the Right to Die Dignity, as in a town, in a city, in La Crosse, in Wisconsin, a city of 52,000 inhabitants, 96 percent of the population had made a document of early vows. And it wasn't random, it was because there was a public impulse from a concrete measure that had made a type of questionar, from the key questions that people had to make and in their family environment respecting how we wanted to die, and that it had promoted that people of all kinds of religions, of all kinds of beliefs, of any kind of genera and of any age were doing this question and ended up making this document on their own volition. So, if we push it from the Public Administration, I'm sure we'll move from this 0.1_per_cent of the Catalan population to a much higher xifra. We're the autonomous community that has the most people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.15.0	Mrs Ribas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.16.0	... – I finish, President – with this expressed will..., on the part of the citizenry, yes, but it is ridiculous the name of the people of Catalonia that has made it. We don't have to give ourselves up for satisfaction. I think we can do a lot more, and that this young man who came out of this inquiry must allow us to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.17.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.18.0	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam Member of the Commission, I am very much in favour of the majority of the proposals he has made. I was trying to explain that for us this topic is a relevant topic, and so there are already many initiatives on the way from the Health Department, huh? That's why he explained, before I attended the Right Association to Morir Dignament, before this question is made..., just read the Pla de salut, and the Pla de salut explains that the attention to palliative care today in Catalonia needs to be reordered and special attention paid to the issue of infants, pediatric care, primary integration... We already have dissemination policies, and I agree that, given the data, we need to rethink new dissemination strategies because that gets more citizens. But they're not minor, the three I was commenting on, huh? Since the Pla director of social health, the agreements with hospitals... that's to say, where there have been initiations have given fruit. Surely, what we need to do is to replicate them more generally, put more entities like Oncolliga de Catalunya to spread this, put more hospitals in line with the department, etc. In any case, I take note of the Wisconsin case, effectively..., and study it in full detail immediately, because all good practice – not this, but anyone else we can identify at international level – is useful to us. That's the learning process... and finding other places where they did it right, let's just say, right? I was just saying that..., we make up for all two data, the data that we are in one percent of the population..., but the data that, differently, Catalonia is that part of the State where we have a higher percentage. For what it does to decriminalization, I think we agree that this is a debate that transcends a lot of strictly sanitary questions, huh? , and the treatment of pain. There's a philosophical debate, ethic. You know perfectly well. In this sense, they cannot be the object of a unilateral initiative by the Department of Health. It would be a mistake. I believe that it should not be the object of a unilateral initiative of the same government as the institution. I think that this must be the subject of a debate, if it is parliamentary, obviously, very broad, in all its depth, right? Therefore, I believe that it is absolutely appropriate, it is adjunct, that this question, just as it forms part of the agenda of many institutions in the conjunct of the advanced world, also forms part of the agenda of institutions today in Catalonia. And more with the new country that we want to build, I think it's at all congruent to pose..., the debate about this right, the right to dignified death, and how we want to guarantee it, protect it, with an institutional transformation that only has a sense, that is to guarantee better the rights of people to guarantee better the dignity of people. And if any right is associated with dignity is this. So it seems to me that everything is necessary, but I am opening this debate to the joint government, the joint institutions, Parliament and civil society, which is obviously what it is to do, right? On the other hand, it is the competence of the Department of Health, absolutely, to rebut the recommendations of the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia, which, of course, I would like to congratulate from this rostrum, because this year has celebrated its twenty-five years. In greeting many things began twenty-five years ago: the Catalan Health Service began twenty-five years ago; the TV3 marathon began twenty-five years ago; the Catalonia Bioethics Committee began twenty-five years ago. And I thank him for giving me the opportunity to quote, or that the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia is very short, because he has made an extraordinary – extraordinary – task, because the policies of salvation constantly observable very deep ethical dilemmas and very complex questions that are not to be answered from the pressure of public institutions and from a power like the executed power, but from another rhythm, which is the rhythm of deep reflection. And that's why he created a bioethics observatory in Catalonia, twenty-five years ago, independent, from autonomy. And this observer has told us, in effect, that after the Spanish law has been made, to some extent, conditioned by the Spanish law, our law, the Law 21/2000. I refer to the Law on the rights of information relating to the patient's health and autonomy. That law, which without Spanish law perfectly complements its function, once the Spanish law is approved, has remained a little conditioned. And, therefore, the committee recommends a modification, of the Catalan law, so as to avoid the inconveniences caused by the Spanish law, in the sense of explaining better, look at what we talk about when we talk about "life and what we talk about when we talk about "health, questions of a very great conceptual and philosophical depth. And these recommendations are on the table...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.19.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.20.0	...of the Department of Salvation and we have to take them into account. Thank you, honourable Member, for your inquiry. Bon dia, deputies and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. At the request of the Government, and in agreement with the parliamentary groups, the debate on the seven-point, which is the question to the Government on public transport and sustainable mobility, will be substantiated at point 13, and point 14, which is the question to the Government on relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain, will be substantiated at point 15 of the agenda. Can I approve for absence? [[Pause.]] The next point of the order of the day is: ask the government. [[Ask the Government about cultural policy]] [[310-00154/11]] The first question is about cultural policy, formulated for the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Ms. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.22.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, we have heard that this week you have met with the Secretary of State for Culture. And the question I'm asking you is what assessment you make of that meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.23.0	Reply the Councillor of Culture, Mr Santi Vila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.24.0	Good morning. Most honourable President, honourable Member, well, it was, as it could not be in any other way, an educated meeting; I rise to say, at last, cordial. But, logically, it rebuts with great scepticism, because it is obvious that there are objective problems that, for the time being, shortly after, surely we will not solve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mrs. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.26.0	I'm glad she was educated, especially for what Camus said, that leaving a society without culture is bringing it closer to the jungle. But I value positively, and our group also does, that meeting, since it symbolizes what good relations should be..., and to bet on that culture, that culture that must favor Catalan society as a Spanish society, and I positively value that openness and those meetings to dialogue. Look, a few years ago, this famous phrase was coined "Finance we are all. I would like us all to be cultured, and that Catalan, Spanish society should become part of that culture and that all its institutions should promote it and that collaboration between administrations should exist. Because it's not just about talking about culture, which is heritage, which is a way of betting on that intelligence of our society and that brand value that we should have as a reference, but it's also about betting on that quality tourism that must represent culture in our country. I believe that, at that meeting, Mr. Counsellor, although I make an assessment at this sceptical moment, many things were discussed, and many bets on important infrastructures for the dissemination of culture, such as the MNAC, such as the Macba, such as the High School Theatre, such as the Flower Market..., that I am absolutely convinced that it is a determined bet of the Government of Spain for culture. Mr. Counsellor, a writer you know very well, Valentí Puig, recently wrote: "Culture is necessary to feed those forms of shared illusion that make it possible for us to live together in society. Let us not miss those days, Mr Vila, neither illusion nor sharing. Because, of course, without culture we will all be engaged in living among the ruins of our intelligence. You probably know who I'm talking about. I therefore encourage you to continue in this dialogue, in this sharing and in this illusion with the Government of Spain for the spread of Catalan culture as a Spanish culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.27.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Levy. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.28.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I insist: that the meeting was polite and cordial does not mean that you do not preside over skepticism, because the concretions were completely non-existent. And the objective fact that we should continue to pursue is that since the year 2011 the State has withdrawn, to practical effect, from the culture in Catalonia, eh? And, therefore, it already treats us as if we were a literally independent state. And this is an objective fact. You think there was a reduction of 44 percent of the assumptions in the great national equipment in Catalonia where the State had a presence. But if the argument to justify this withdrawal was, in fact, that there was a very severe economic recession and that, therefore, they did not have tickets, so that they deny the facts during 2016, where, again, the State has reinvested heavily in the great Spanish national equipments, huh? , and here it is that during 2016 there was an increment of the assumption of around 10_per_cent to the great equipments, the Thyssen, the Queen, the Royal Theatre, which obviously did not occur here in Catalonia. This is the objective data. We will see if, indeed, from then on, this start of the legislature is marked by an objective, objective compromise, which must be translated into resources. Three large equipment shortages that are still on our agenda actually came out. Provincial Library of Barcelona. It's neither there nor expected. Arxiu the Girona. Here, indeed, the compromise, will have to follow, is that it is possible to bid this work – it is a millionaire work, eh? , more than 12_million euros – during 2017. We'll see about that. I'm saying that because you can also go with your own control. And the Arqueológico Museum in Tarragona, which, as you know, is an equipment of the sixties where since the sixties nothing has been done. "What do you say happened, counselor? Res. From the sixties. And now we find ourselves in a situation of col·lapse... that it would be very good for the Spanish authorities, by the way, beyond good intentions and the dialog, to start doing something about it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the conflict between the Fosca and Endesa valley]] [[310-00146/11]] Second question to the Government, about the conflict between the Fosca and Endesa valley. The question is posed by Mr. Albert Botran, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.30.0	Well, good morning. Mr. Counselor, the year 2016 after Crist, all valleys of the Pyrenees have succumbed to the conditions imposed by the Endesa hydroelectric empire. Totes? No, no, A small log called the Torre de Cabdella, in the Fosca valley, and its irreducible inhabitants resist. We would like to know if the Government has any form of support in this conflict with Endesa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.32.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Mr. Deputy. I'll explain to all the deputies why there's a log that fights, and they don't think it's a comic, no. It's a fight that's bad in defense of some good electric rates that's been going on for many years, many decades. Actually, it's been a few years since last century. Why? So because the municipalities and the veins and veins of those lands let it pass..., and they worked together to get there in Catalonia's electrification process, and that's partly offsetting a reduction in the electricity charges that they have to pay together and come and go. And that's happened so far. And changes to businesses, because it was a company and then they separated between generation and marketing, and changes in VAT regulations have made a price apply that is not what was agreed. Since the Government of Catalonia, although we do not have competitions in VAT or in electricity, we have worked together, we have mediated and we have sought and we have given and we have tried to find a solution to collect the town hall of the Torre de Cabdella, in all its comings and comings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.33.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.34.0	Indeed, as explained, the prices were improved since the 27th year, because the communal lands were given to the enterprise, and the conflict, now, that keep the Tower of Cabdella and the Fosca valley, is, since 2009, on billing and VAT, and the one that is claimed is 1,4_million, the one that claims the enterprise to the municipality, in some circumstances in which some of the positive effects that Endesa brought to the territory did not already exist, as was the generation of work places. Now, with automation, not just work places, not just improved electricity, as the conditions of the year 27 had been. The questions have worsened, the conflict has worsened since the deputy company decided on 3 November to send a subcontracted company to cut electricity, therefore, interpreting that the conflict had been resolved in this way. It was the venous mobilization that caused some of these to come to an end. It wasn't like that in all cases, and it was one of the ways, so the electrical sub-administration was cut. It gives the circumstance that this week of November 3 also came a resolution of the General Directorate of Tributes of the Ministry of Hisenda favorable to the interpretation of the veins on the basis on which to tax the VAT of these invoices of the light. Our question has been addressed... that the government's commitment remains much more firm. This compromise may exist. While it has a powerful law firm, and the way they feel much more helpless before this conflict, and the pressure and political positions have effects. We were talking about the 3rd of November that produced an electricity grade. How it coincided that week with the tragic fact of Reus, of the woman who died because if she lit up with spells, the company, knowing the image that she gives, quickly proceeded to restore electricity to the see to which she had carved it. The Battle of the Tower of Cabdella is not only for the seven-day period and the Assembly of the Tower of Cabdella, it is because all the valleys of the Pyrenees...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.35.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.36.0	...that they have hydropower plants, that they can have conditions... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.37.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, the Government of Catalonia has been, when asked and asked for by the Ways and Ways and the Assembly of the Tower of Cadella, at its side. We've had meetings, we've mediated, we've sought solutions between the assembly and the company, and proof of that is that he's working to reach an agreement. And, obviously, in defense of which is the interpretation on which basis and what is needed to apply the VAT, we are at the cost of the VAT being applied to the price bonus, which is the one defending the Assembly of the Tower of Cadella and the Ways and Ways of the Tower of Cadella. With this he will find, the Government of Catalonia, always at the side of the Torre de Cabdella and its veins.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.39.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about educational outcomes]] [[310-00147/11]] Third question to the Government, about educational outcomes. The question is posed by Mrs Sonia Sierra, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.40.0	Thank you. And, in the first place, condemn the latest feminicides. Good morning, Counselor. A couple of weeks ago, at a RAC1 program, you justified that Madrid had had better results than Catalonia to PISA, and I quote: "The percentage of private private school in Madrid is also much higher than in other communities. Fi of the date. Some very similar words, of course, to which he told me in his first appearance, and I quote again: "You spoke of other communities, whether they have better or different results. It is also true that there are communities that have aspired to other models where the private system has a very high level. My questions are: first, why do you consider that having a private school percentage makes PISA more successful? , as RAC1 said; and second, why do you think betting on a model where the private system has a much higher score? As you said in your first appearance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.42.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, for a time I had thought that, since we have some external results that are not of the Generality that are positive, I would have come to say that I congratulated the education system for getting good results. But no, she's worried about what I said. And I said a lot of things, you just took one. I said various things, among other things, for the question they asked me. The question they asked me is: « Listen, like Madrid, which has the same percentage of immigration, do you get better results? And I also talked about the private matter. Miri, as I may say to him, it seems to me that you will not end up convincing, I read the Milagros Pérez Oliva, in an article by El País, which I believe is not very suspicious of being Junts pel Yes, we went on to say: « Madrid and Catalonia have almost the same percentage of immigrants but, in the first, the bulk comes from Latin America and has Spanish as their mother tongue, while in Catalonia, the bulk comes from Africa and Asia, which sets up a scenario of many and very different mother tongues. With this linguistic diversity of departure, that Catalan students pass the language test is a merit. Another factor that has been used to explain Madrid's best position is that 50_per_cent of its centers are private; in Catalonia, this difference influences. So, I'm not telling you, but other people I think have nothing to do with our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.44.0	Thank you. I wanted to know the impressions of the councilwoman, not a journalist. Look, his words are his words and I've been reading them textually. And his words indicate that he believes that private school is better than not public and concerted. And you said it, you didn't just blame the public school; you also said that we have more immigrants here than they are Hispanic Americans. It seems that, when you are interested, mother tongue – this one that denies Mrs Rigau – does matter. But we have Navarre, with a percentage of immigration similar to Catalonia, with little presence of Hispanic Americans and with a majority of non-EU immigrants, especially from Morocco, and have much better results than Catalonia. I suppose now he's going to bring us Spain into our clothes. And we don't have to go far enough, because here, on the side, at the Hospital of Llobregat, we have a public school with a 90_percent immigrant and a middle school for Catalonia. The problem, and you said it yourself, is that years ago they assumed to be a model of success in the Catalan school, and this is the first year that Catalonia is above the Spanish medium in mathematics and science. The problem is that years ago they assumed a model of success and there are six autonomous communities that overcome us. I, then, blame it on the public school, the immigrants and the 'Spanisha ens robas'. Look, Mrs. Ruiz, you have a public school that you don't deserve, but above all, the public school doesn't deserve a counselor like you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.45.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.46.0	Congresswoman, don't act, I don't have a public school. The public school, of great quality, has it in this country. And, exactly, one of the things that favors... [[applause]] , one of the most proud things about this country is that, with the high percentage of public school we have, we have some results and we follow the OECD country that has increased the most in scientific competitions – the most of the OECD. Therefore, we are very happy with our public school, not only because it is better in quality, but because it is better in equity. Because if you have time to look at the whole file, not just a few statements of a one-hour question, you'll see that we're from the capdavant countries in lower percentages of lower fringes. This means that we are giving many more educational opportunities to our educational centres. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.47.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about school and out-of-school activities]] [[310-00148/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on school and non-school activities. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.48.0	[[The orator reproduces a sound recording.]] What Members have heard are children between the ages of five and six representing a play in Cambrils, in which they talk about « they will die, « matem, « killem, « ens están matant. These children also play to kill each other and some fall to the ground. And, as you know, it is staged that the Spaniards betray and massacre the Catalans. What values do you intend to transmit to children in Catalan school with this school activity?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.50.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member, I see that you have no problem using images of minors, recorded two years ago, of a teaching activity that lasts one minute of the 52,000 minutes a year that makes a teenager in school, of one of the hundreds of teaching activities, of a school in Catalonia more than two years ago. You get it out of context and make it serve to dictate your favorite feeling, which is: "The Catalan school that does it is to indoctrinate Catalan children. Is it to say that our... are we told that our masters, all our masters in Catalonia are indoctrining Catalan students? Miri, no. More respect for the docs' pocket. After that, I see that they only seek information from the network and certain communication media. Listen to me, the center, many centers, all centers in Catalonia do programming units to know its municipality and its history; it passes to all centers. And listen to me, the story is what it is. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.52.0	Don't get nervous, counsel, or try to control the opposition. Look, the work lasts more than a minute, we have seen it whole and represent another in Cambrils very similar, which is represented for seven Cambrils centers for primary children. Don't rush the subject by saying we're politicizing. I asked him about the values that the Catalan school defends. Do you feel comfortable with parents leaving their children at school to teach them war games? So their teachers can teach them how to play kill, betray, and hate? Do you agree, Mrs. Ruiz... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.53.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.54.0	...with that Catalan school...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.55.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.56.0	...must transmit the culture of peace and non-violence? Respect for different peoples? The Peaceful Resolution of Conflicts? You and your party councilwoman, Mercè Dalmau, don't you see any problem in this video? You say this video is history, you, as head of education, do you really believe that children between the ages of five and six are able to appreciate the historical context of Catalonia, Cambrils and Spain, and Europe in 1640? Do you really believe that? You think so? [[Greetings.]] If these works do not convey values and are not able to transmit principles of history to children between the ages of five and six, then, Madam Counselor, what is the purpose of making war, death and hatred play out and for the Spaniards to betray and massacre Catalan children? [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm asking because we don't understand. You guys...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.57.0	Please, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.58.0	...you'll know why you do it, why you take iron here and why you don't do anything. In Citizens we will continue to defend a school in which the values of peace and the culture of peace and non-violence are taught in our schools. I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.59.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.60.0	...to apologize to the Catalan parents and to say that this is not going to happen again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.61.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of Parliament, I do it again: a minute of a teaching activity and it is asking the Council of Education to apologize to all Catalan parents. Listen to me, at our schools – and I know very hard that in these uprisings neither you nor any of your group have children and know it – neither are you going to hate, nor are you going to kill, nor are you going to teach war. And, listen, I'll read you the one who wrote us a Reus entity, which is a heritage documentation center. Say, listen'm: "The commemoration of historical events that they assumed confrontation between nations and the recreation of battles is totally common in Europe. They don't just do our centers. Without this supposed to fuel the hatred among the peoples, the contrary years, it is only possible to remember the commemorations that encanny made of battles like the First World War. Finally, he says: "When you explain the anti-aircraft shelters, for example, of the Civil War, to the schoolchildren, as in the case of this entity, we talk above all about the attacks of Italian aviation coming from Majorca, and at the moment you are promoting the hatred of the students to the Italians. The story is what it is and it needs to be explained, and even recreated in a fun and festive way, and that's not what I'm saying, it's an entity. Listen to me, the story that is explained to our schools is not to fall back into massacres, war, or violence. Our teachers are witnesses of reconciliation, peace, dialogue and justice. But, listen to me, the story is what it is and it has to be explained how it really is and not how some people would want it to be. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.63.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of hospital emergency services]] [[310-00149/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the situation of hospital emergency services. The question is posed by Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.64.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you know we have serious problems with emergencies across the country. We keep all the winter ahead. Could you explain what's going on?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.66.0	Thank you, Madam President. I appreciate you asking a question a little less demagic than the previous group, sincerely, because it seems to me very important that you ask a question about emergencies; it is a topic that concerns us most. What's going on in emergency today? Similar things that have happened over the last few years in our emergency system, because, if you look at the emergency demand pattern this week from the hospital bridge to the hospital in Catalonia, you will see that we are with some data that is practically identical to those of the previous year, and the previous, and the previous; which means that we have an endemic problem in Catalonia with the issue of emergencies, which we have to face with the most energy. That's why from the Health Department we're putting in a new instrument to try to deal with this. We do not want to answer only with the winter plan, with PIUC, the emergency problem, but we are developing an emergency plan and continued attention that intends to build an authentic national emergency system with an analysis of the demand we have today, much more detailed than we have done so far, to try to give far more effective solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.67.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.68.0	Thank you, Counselor. I read him a fragment of a letter from the Federation of Veins and Veins Associations of Barcelona. He says: "We distrust the seasonal plans and the success of the inventions that have so far been completed by the different managers who have passed through the Health Department and who have resulted in a failure. I know that you and most of the people who are here don't like the emergency breakdown, but you have the responsibility that doesn't happen and, more importantly, you have some tools; since a year ago, you have some tools, for example, to reverse the disaster that Mr. Boi Ruiz did. And someone will say: "What is there to see Mr. Boi Ruiz? In 2011 Mr. Boi Ruiz in this Parliament said: "The time of truth has come, and he has put himself to shut down primary care centers. And he didn't do it to get away with it; 2011 in the region of the Jungle locked up seven primary care centers for the drop-outs and leaving no urgent attention for the more than forty-thousand people. Was it? 1-million-euro menus. Of course, it's in California, if we tank primary care centers, if we bring in primary care pediatricians, what happens? The emergencies are col·lapsen. And in 2011 people warned: "If we do this to primary attention, it will reverse and have an impact on emergencies. And that's what's going on; actually, you said, it's been a few years. I just wanted to say: now we're going into a phase of talking about assumptions. You told us many times: "Ostres, let's talk about the assumptions. So, let's talk. Counselor, go see your government companies and tell them that primary care needs more money than the vanguard and its subsidies. Perhaps the primary care needs more money than formula 1; and perhaps the primary care needs more money than the Barcelona Archdiocese, which is given 1_million euros per year, the same that costs the emergencies of the region of the Selva. And if they don't, we'll help you, counselor. We go with you, we go with you to talk with them and we can read them – and I finish with this – what they say to you: "We would invite you, as an experimental method, to pass a minimum of seventy-two hours in a liter to any passage from the hospitals of the Sea or the Valley of Hebron, with a patch of plastic with its relevance to little, no bells...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.69.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.70.0	«... to ask for help and to make their needs... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.71.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.72.0	As my obligation, I went to visit the emergencies of the sixty hospitals in Catalonia. I've had time to see her in these months, and I intend to see the other thirty that I'm missing. And sometimes I got the vice president to do it, and they're on their way, too, that we can do it directly with the president. Unfortunately, honourable Member, the emergency problem is not going to be resolved. Because I would be much more comfortable if I could say about the problem of emergencies what I can say about the problem of waiting lists: that the problem of waiting lists is basically – not just, but it is basically – a question of resources, and if I don't have 1,000_million euros today I assure you that we absorb the waiting list in Catalonia in a year or a year and a half. But in emergencies no, in emergencies it is to analyze demand, we have a new type of chronic patient that before there was no 50 percent of the emergency today is fifteen to sixty-five years; therefore, we are talking about the people who have to go to emergencies because they survived the diseases that before it was very difficult to survive. There is a topic of drainage capacity, of guiding hospitals looking at urgency so that the capacity of hospitals..., the drainage is higher, but above all – above all – has very little to see with primary attention, why the basic data that we need to retain which one is? That only a 12_percent of the emergency today in Catalonia is level 5, which is not urgent, which is what could be attended to by primary care, and in change, a 52_percent of the emergency today in Catalonia is level 4. What's the level 4 emergency? That urgency that doesn't need to be resolved with a hospital emergency, but that can't be resolved in normal primary care, and that's why we've invented the CUPs, which is why Catalonia's health care system has a CUP network, which at these times is rethinking the brand of the director, which is what we need to resolve this 52_percent of the emergency demand, which is what is now collapsing. But this also goes through a re-education of the city, which is our job to make them hear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.73.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.74.0	...that according to what kind of emergency you need... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.75.0	Sisena asks the government about the guaranteed income of citizens. [[Ask the Government about guaranteed citizenship income]] [[310-00150/11]] The question is posed by Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.76.0	Thank you, President. Will you advise, is it compromised before this Parliament to include the proper assumptions, the year 2017, a specific and sufficiently gifted game for guaranteed citizenship income? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.78.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, thank you for the question. You know the government has a clear commitment to the most vulnerable. The guaranteed income benefit for us is a social land with a complement that involves a social and employment integration programme for the beneficiaries and there is already this item in the assumptions, there are 70 million euros. What happens is that if we do not have guaranteed income yet we cannot put the name of guaranteed income, and we have put 70 million euros to what we have now, "minimum income of insertion, hoping that from this Parliament all the parliamentary groups, with the proposal that there is, can reach the guaranteed income agreement. Therefore, not only these 70_millions, but also 14_millions more for active insertion measures, which is what we are asking for. Guaranteeed income accompanied, therefore, social land, accompanied by a social insertion and employment programme. And that's already in place, in 2017's own assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.79.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.80.0	Thank you, President. Madam Councillor, yesterday the Congress of Deputies approved a socialist initiative to set aside the vital minimum income, which will benefit about 730,000 families throughout the State and which will be involved in the proper assumptions of the year 2017. And while, in Catalonia, you, counsel, do not complete what you yourself approved in the general policy debate: these assumptions do not have a specific heading for guaranteed citizenship income. My parliamentary group has asked for it, the Catalonian Parliament has asked for it, the committee that promotes it, the social entities; even so, there has been a wave of fame this week. That is why my parliamentary group has included a task to create and equip it, even if it is at least, with a game that must be expandable, just to show that it was not so difficult to accomplish what this Parliament agreed to. Councillor, social assumptions without a match for guaranteed citizenship income are not social assumptions, they cannot be. For one band, we are told to allocate the minimum income resources to guaranteed income, but this is already insufficient according to the draft assumptions presented to us. And on the other hand, they tell us that they don't have the resources to make a guaranteed income of citizenship at the time that they approve guaranteed income motions and, more importantly, include it in their election program. We are betting for a broad agreement, for a policy as important and necessary as this, an agreement with the promoters of the ILP, with the unions and the social entities that allow us to make a sufficiently effective income, that it includes social and labour inclusion plans and that it aims not only at the people who need it, but at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time. Counselor, ask for concrete. Is there going to be a specific match of guaranteed citizenship income to the assumptions, yes or no? How much money are you going to spend on it? What's his calendar? When will you call a negotiating table with the will to agree and not marish the loss? When will he open the negotiation? Will you work with the Government of the State to implement the vital minimum income in Catalonia as well? How long will we have in this scene of uncertainty or, what's worse, how long will the citizenry have without unprotected resources? Madam will sincerely advise that the Government has a political will to ensure that you make the central element of social policy in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.82.0	Thank you, President. Member, I have already made it clear: the government's commitment is total with guaranteed income, but it also respects the chamber, and if from the chamber there was this commission that was working for guaranteed income, it did not seem to us that the government had to go ahead and put the direct assumption on guaranteed income. We have put the money, I have said it clearly – you will see it – in the share of minimum income for insertion and, moreover, in the summary made by the vice president of the assumption, in the direction of guaranteed income, therefore, clearly, of 70_million. We have increased the requirement for active insertion measures because we also believe that guaranteed income must be this, a social land accompanied by social insertion measures and work measures, and that's all there is. But I will tell him and announce something else: we have been waiting for the whole year since Parliament agreed; we ask for generosity from all groups. We don't have a pension reserve fund to get the money and move it to another band in Catalonia, like they have in the Spanish State and they're from the PP government. So, we have to work with the assumptions that we can have. But I am announcing that the month of generation we are calling from the government all the entities, all the parliamentary groups in order to be able to pull the guaranteed income forward, because we have waited all the year that you have agreed from the Parliament and it has not been possible. Therefore, we ask for generosity to all so that we can pull it forward in a way that is real, effective and that we can pay it and that does not fly pigeons. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.83.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about priorities in the field of mental salvation]] [[310-00151/11]] Seven questions to the Government, on priorities in the field of mental salvation. Asks the question Mrs Alba Vergés, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.84.0	Thank you, President. We have talked a lot in this Parliament, in the mouths of Members, Members and also the Councillor of Health about the social determinants of salvation. We have also seen how the crisis has impacted people's living conditions, how we have made ourselves more vulnerable, and how it has increased inequalities in health. In all these indicators, those of mental salvation are the ones who in a most uplifting way have taken the last few years to our country. Some data. In 2013, 23.1_percent of people who have endured more than one year are at risk of mental distress. In the busy people, Counselor of Treball, it is only a 9.5_per_cent; therefore, from 23.1 to 9 and mig. In 2015, a third of the 169,000 people treated were for severe mental distress; 22,000 hospitalizations, with an increase of 15.8_per_cent, compared to the previous year. To the emergency services of hospitals they also tell us, they warn us that they have a strong increase in urgent attention related to mental health. The average states are 18.2 days per acute episode and 66.6 days for a treatment to restore normal life. And what's harder: a 6.3_per_cent of these people re-enter after 90 days. Last June, the Catalonia Mental Health Federation also gave us the report on child and adolescent mental health care in Catalonia. Unfortunately, data isn't better for infants and young people. 18,8_per_cent, severe mental disorder; an increase of 29_per_cent in the entrances of the youth population, and a 17,9_per_cent re-enter the head of 90 days. We can imagine everything that this represents for the life of a person, of the family, of his surroundings. Mental salvation has this great personal, family and social impact. And we do it without stigmatizing, because everyone and everyone can have a mental health problem at the length of our lives. The WHO defines mental salvation as one of its main priorities and a challenge of public salvation. In this sense, also the report that they delivered to us says that a good part of the hard mental disorders begin in early years and that the problems not dealt with in childhood have a strong tendency to persist in adulthood. The Pla de Salut 16-20 places mental salvation as a priority area and insists on what it does to child and youth salvation. And I want to ask you a very specific question, counselor. Do I want to ask you what we will see this 2017 respect the priorities set by the Health Plan in the field of mental health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.85.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vergés. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.86.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, we know that the social determinants impact on the salvation of the population, all the spheres of the salvation of the population, but these years of the crisis we have seen that the indicators in salvation, in the majority of pathologies, have endured well, including improved. They have increased inequalities in salvation, but, if we see the population globally, the indicators have not entered, except in one area, which is that of mental salvation, in which we have a drama, because it is an area of salvation in which we are worse. Why? Because it confirms what we already know: that the social determinants in the sphere of salvation in which they impact most strongly is in that of mental salvation. Therefore, not only has there been an increase in inequalities in mental health, but there has been an increase in the state of mental health of Catalans and Catalans as a result of the crisis. And that's why this assumption, if you have a headline, if this assumption is to be summed up with two words, for what you do to the Department of Salvation are mental salvation. Because mental salvation will have an increase of more than 20_percent of the presupposition. Because to mental salvation we put 70_million more on a premise of 365, but if we add the increment of the 15th year in relation to the 16th year, that it was 29_million, we are talking of an increment of 100_million euros for mental salvation, which means almost 30_percent of increment. Because we have to, because it's an obligation, because our obligation is to deal with those problems that are especially dramatic, and this is the most dramatic of all, especially in the childish realm. But all this coming of resources, which has been seen with great expectation on the part of the sector – so, we have an opportunity, the sector is not aware, the sector is very hopeful with the assumption of the 17th year, it will be a historic leap, the greatest leap that will ever have made the assumption of mental salvation since we have the skills in salvation to the Generality –, I would not have felt, this increase of resources, if not the one put to the service of a new model, which is the Community model. And this model we have, because Europe has said that, of all the Community models that have been in operation in Europe, the best is that of the IAS of Girona. Europe has said, with the study of the Refinement, that we are the referent at the international level, surely the best of the world, at the time of making a model of attention to community mental salvation. And what we're doing at these times, with the consent of the professionals, is deploying this community model. So what we're doing is putting in a lot of resources, but because we know where we want to go, we know where we're going. And we have the objective that, as it is in other parts of the territory, Osona too, every time the ills are less attached to the hospital and more to the community. That's what we'll get on the assumption of 17th. Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.87.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the state of the processing of aid for the temporary paralysis of the fishing activity of 2016]] [[310-00152/11]] Let me ask the Government about the state of the processing of aid for the temporary paralysing of the fishing activity of 2016. The question is posed by Mrs Magda Casamitjana, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.88.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor Meritxell Serret, today yes, today fishing. Seen from the fishing sector in the encircling and watering modes began in September 2015 and ended this July. Many days and many months have passed, and sees them executed on the part of the fishers impeccably. And, despite everything, we know that the sector has not yet received the help it receives. In November, the Directorate-General for Fisheries announced that there was almost 1 million euros for the payment of these aids, both to shipowners and sailors; in this case, thanks to God, for the first time. Even though sailors can also attach to these aids, the conditions established for the ministry have not de-motivated the request. Only new sailors have been able to join it, because the aid offered to the ministry is incompatible and little competitive with the industry. We know that the Directorate-General for Fisheries has had to work in a very difficult and difficult context. The new restricted and imposed criteria that have been fished – more so – by the Ministry and the insistent immobilism of the State have made it very difficult to get to the right place. The Generalitat can only act as a mere administrative office; the criteria are given and benevolent from Madrid. Imposing is the only state dialog with our fishers, who will charge a year later for what they correspond to. Counselor, re-centralisation is very bad for the Catalan fishing sector. We are anchored, once more, in the past, and we cannot advance, once more, and in many other things, as we would and could. This year – we want the last one to follow – it's up to us to draw a trailer. But... and we know that you will complete, and so will the sector, and you will find a solution to the upsurge of these aids. What is the status, counsel, of the processing of aid for temporary paralysis of fishing activity? I expect a very good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.89.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Casamitjana. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.90.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, really, we are ahead of an example of how the re-centralisation that the ministry is doing harms our productive sectors. From the Department of Agriculture we have been dissatisfied with the first moment, with the ministry, because it does not finance the totality of the fence, because it does not solve the social problem of the sailors, and especially when, when they had already begun to see them, they changed the conditions and imposed some demands, as you well said, restricted and out of the way and which have made it difficult for our fleet to access them, and above all the sailors. Since the department, despite the fact that it is only intended to be a manager, we have worked intensively and have sought to find solutions. So, we've enabled a presupposition game to move forward and speed up the payment of these aids, and we've worked hard to find alternatives to those so restrictive requirements and make it possible for them to end up receiving the aids. And so now we'll have 256 ships and nine sailors who'll get help. Actually, for what he does to the sailors, we have a problem. The conditions of the ministry do not solve the difficult social problem that exists, because they continue without allowing the help to equip itself, if not, to the import of the atrium. Despite this, we continue to work intensively, we are working with the Social Institute of Navy to enable a system that allows for a faster and more automatic charge on the part of the sailors of the visual aid and we will continue to work and claim to the ministry that increases the imports of the visual aids. As you said, from the department we are compromised, we are committed to the sector, we want to push the Catalan fishing fleet forward, which is a medium power to the Mediterranean Sea, and from here this week we will start paying these aids, for an import of almost 1_million euros, to these 256 vessels and to these new sailors. And this compromise also, if I may say so, that in the agricultural sector too, we have suffered from the re-centralisation of the RDP, with this breakdown of more than EUR 150_million, we have succeeded in making 100_percent of the payment of aid in the economic sector– 3.8_million to 457 branches–, and we will make 100_percent of the aid to natural limitations, from 11.7_million to 4,932 beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.91.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the latest results of PISA tests]] [[310-00153/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the latest results of the PISA tests. The question is posed by Ms Marta Pascal, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, as has already been said at this monitoring session, a few days ago the results of the PISA reports were made public, which, as we know, therefore assess educational skills. And what's going on, for what it does with the results, is that the efforts that have been made in the past for what it does to the education system, therefore, have tinted its fruit. Despite the complexities, despite the difficulties arising from the crisis, the results make us optimistic about the future, therefore, that our education system has. It seems to us, from Junts to Yes, that there are some facts that are interesting that we can highlight and that, moreover, we can compare them with European standards, in terms of excellence. Scientific competence: Catalonia is the country of Europe and, in fact, of the whole OECD, which has improved more in this area, and, therefore, we are in standard, therefore, like those in Switzerland, Ireland, Germany, the United Kingdom or Denmark. Reader's understanding: we arrive at five hundred points and are also located in the European and Spanish medium, in fact, and touching countries such as Sweden, Denmark and Belgium. And in mathematical competence, in which we also miss much, therefore, move forward, we are located in standards like Norway, Austria, Ireland or Germany. They are good results, but in our opinion we must follow, because, if we seek excellence as in the country, obviously the education system must aspire to its best results. The good work done for your department, with you in the lead, however, let me also say, a good work done for Constellera Rigau and her team, in the previous term, have allowed us, therefore, that the positive impact is begun to notice in the results that PISA standards in both European and OECD contexts. But I insist that we keep going. And, therefore, since the education system has managed to rethink itself, since we have been able to enjoy the establishment given by the LEC, the Law of Education of Catalonia, which has given us the ability to arrange all the elements of the system and, in this sense, students, teachers, families, economic resources, pedagogy, educational innovation, skills, therefore, we lay all the flesh in the grass and follow in this line. It is stated that some of us wanted to impose LOMCE, and we have already seen the results of this educational law. It is fixed that the LEC has provided us, I insist, stabilized and trusted in the system and that the results are coming. In any case, Counselor, we would like to know, so who is your opinion respects these results and, above all, who is the line to follow in order to improve even more the results that our education system offers us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.93.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Pascal. Reply to the Teaching Councillor, Mrs Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I think it's time, as you said, because in any case what I deserve is me, to congratulate the education system for all that change you said. I like to put PISA in context. PISA is an international exam that is done every three years, which is more showy, so it is not censal, and for what it is to serve us is to refer us also to the international level. But above all, what PISA confirms is that they already give evidence of the assessment of basic skills that Catalonia has had years ago, which is that our system is improving. And it's just these tests, the basic skills, because we do them every year, because we do them in every centre in Catalonia, because we do all the sixth grade and the whole fourth grade, which we need to make decisions at the educational policy level. We are, you said, satisfied with the good results we have had, and that is why we congratulate the education system very much, but, as you said, we want to continue to improve. The important thing is to know that our education system in Catalonia, despite what some say, is very well oriented. We have an educational system that we see moving forward in quality and equity, that's a binomial that the capdavant countries teach us that it's possible, as we're doing here. For the first time we are progressing in quality, because we are above the European media, as you said, in all three competitions. In the scientific competence, which was the bulk of this examination, of this proof, we are at the levels of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Germany; but we also have good results in the low strip. And it's really surprising, when you look at the results, to see that as a percentage of students who don't take advantage of the skills we're among the best in the OECD, we're in the eighth position. And that must make us very happy, because that means that the schools of the Education Service of Catalonia if one thing they do is compensate for the inequalities of our students. From here, as you said, we must continue to work, starting from a good base, which is what we have at this time; that the educational change that is due to the end of the Catalan school is well oriented, and that is important to know; that the plan for educational success, which was placed above all to help those students who do not get along, is also giving good results; that educational policies, as you said, which have been done in spite of the great difficulties that this country has experienced, have followed the uncertainties, and above all, that what we have to continue, unlike others, is to take a pedagogical look at the system, and not ideological. Because when that's how we manage to put projects in the way, like the impulse to read, the "Now I write, a personalized school support for those kids who have more difficulties or the curriculum change, important, as well as the skills that this country is making. Therefore, today is not the time to say other things, but to congratulate the education system, which precisely in this room today has been so highly and unjustly criticized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.95.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the model of great public work, the impunity of great enterprises and the revolving doors]] [[317-00099/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.96.0	Thank you, President. President, these past weeks have been familiar with various issues related to the mismanagement of various public infrastructures, as well as a series of irregularities in environmental contamination situations. For one band, we have found that a state-owned company, Aquamed, in the midst of an investigation for an estimated fraud of more than 25 million euros and thirteen detainees, has left to myths the process of decontamination of the Flix pant; a contamination that is not only within the embassy, but also in the lands of the industrial complex managed for decades with impunity by Ercros, and where the Generalitat, responsible for the control and vigilance of the contamination of the soils, has not done the dues nor as it touched. It's no wonder, since Ercros is one of the companies involved in the famous revolving doors. For another band, we have seen how the Spanish government has announced a rescue of the Madrid radials for an estimated import of 5,500_million euros, a model of public rescue of infrastructures that its party has historically endorsed in Madrid at the cost of the PP and the PSOE, a model of public rescue that here the tripartite implemented and intensified with the famous tolls in the shade that, for example, cost the rescue of the Vic-Ripoll tram for 275_million euros. Benefits? The builders of all time, there are ACS or OHL, Ferrovial, Sacyr, and here Promotion of Constructions and Contracts, Comsa Emte, Copcisa and Abertis at all, with our lord. Obscurantism, discontrol, impunity and revolving doors. Making public works without economic sense, social or environmental respect, converted into a business model where they always win the same and always loses the jointness of the citizenry. The example of friend capitalism, privatization of benefits and socialization of impacts and losses. What does the government think of all this model of great public work, impunity for big businesses and revolving doors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.98.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, we have always apostatized for a model that encourages public investment and does not take refuge, if necessary, in concert with the private sector. The public-private model is not an invention of Catalonia, it is a practice expressed in most countries around us, and well controlled, well planted, well followed is a good practice. At the end of this there are examples, and you have pointed out some, clearly wrong practice. And when that happens, we don't have to question the model, we have to pursue these examples of bad practice, and we have to get to the bottom of the situation. Aquamed's case is not clear, and it's a clear case because it was this government that took him out; it was this government that put itself at the forefront of the complaint about the situation going on in Flix, and it's this government that the week you're going to make a commission with experts in the territory to discuss the abst of this problem. Therefore, one thing is the concessions, that there must be, and the other thing is the cases of practical or abusive evils, that there is also, unfortunately, and the radials of Madrid are some, and we will see how ends, for example, the topic of the tunnel of Pertús de TP Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.99.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.100.0	Thank you, President. Phrases loaded with good words, but which do not correspond with the daily action of your government or other cases involving exemplics. Just a couple of examples in the form of questions: what do you think about the contracting of two former Convergence advisors, Pere Macias and Felipe Puig, by the Barcelona Municipal Government in Comú - PSC to deal with the issue of the tram? Or how does it justify that in the lands of Ercros to Flix, the Agency of Residues of Catalonia donated as a land where the workers and the workers can only be twenty-five minutes a day? What do we even know today that a minimum of three new contaminated sites have been discovered outside Flix's industrial district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.101.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.102.0	Yes, thank you very much. You must know that at the expense of our enormous environmental concern for Flix's case, which is, and I have already reiterated to him the role played by this government, and this government has alerted and is not following, at the expense of this too we are concerned and very much about the reindustrialisation of the area. Things have been connected and, therefore, this is a government that is not just... that is capable and able to cope with the environmental alarms that create them, but that makes it compatible with an essential project, also, of Flix reindustrialization. For what he does to the contract that another administration does, in this case the Government of Barcelona, the truth is that I do not see myself with the color of answering it. I believe that this question must be addressed to the representatives of your municipal group at the Barcelona Assembly and ask them the criteria for the contracts that they make of certain people, that they'suppose, at least this is the argument that they have made, therefore, expert to occupy this responsibility. But, as you can imagine, this is a question that this government and I, particularly as the president, cannot answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.103.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the guarantee of the continuity of the Councillor d'Interior]] [[317-00103/11]] Eleventh asks the Government, about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, there are many Catalans who see, that we see with concern the radical drift of your Government, and it seems to me that the intervention of the Councillor of Education when she said that history is the story when it is taught that Spaniards killed Catalans, is a good example. I want to remind you that the Spaniards have never killed the Catalans. [[Greetings.]] This is absolute manipulation on your part. But I will not only refer to this social radicality that you have seen today, but I also want to refer to the violent radicality of your governing partners, the members of the CUP. The CUP is no longer solely and exclusively able to attack the Squadron Mosses at these times, but it is already able to demand the head of the Interior Councillor. The most recent facts, Mr. President, show that when it comes to the kale borroka of the CUP you shake the cams. For this reason, my question will be very specific: Mr President, are you on condition to guarantee the continuity of Councillor Jané in the Government of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.106.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you've cleared a lot of things. I will have to believe exactly with what this statement sustains that "there are many Catalans who are concerned about the radical drift of the government; the two things, "are radical, exactly what I mean, and on what it is based to say that there are many Catalans who express this concern, because I would like you to accompany me with this concern of data. To the second specific question: I am clearly in a position to ratify, because it is the President who appoints and terminates the members of the Government, and this faculty, for the time being, except that the Constitutional Court or some other authority acquires a superior competence, for the time being it is an authority that I still have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.107.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.108.0	Mr. President, when I give you the moon, you look at me the saying. And what is evident is that your Government and yourself are prisoners of the CUP's anti-system. And for the Catalan Republic I have to tell you that not everything – not everything – is good. They are prisoners of security, but they are also prisoners of security in policies of job creation, education and health, especially education, as we have seen a moment ago. Yours, Mr Puigdemont, is an isolated government, institutionally isolated because it is unable to break the blockade with the Spanish government, and also isolated in Parliament, as it can only agree with those who defend social radicalism and political radicalism. And you said: "Who says so, that mine is a radical government? The majority of Catalan society says so. I no longer ask you, Mr Puigdemont, to listen to us or to the Government of Spain. Listen to the majority of Catalans who bet on wisdom, on balance; in short, they are normal people. Do not aspire, Mr. Puigdemont, to remain a clone of Arthur Mas. Have the responsibility, the gallarity and the courage to bet on adding...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.109.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.110.0	...instead of continuing to divide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.112.0	Thank you very much. I think he didn't sort out a good day to want to argue that this is a government and this is an international process, and I hope that at the length of the control session I will have the opportunity to ask you some examples that would deny what you have just said, as well as recently, there has been evidence that you have forgotten what you have just said, that the majority of Catalan society wants to know exactly what. Do you know what the majority of Catalan society wants? He wants a reference. Do you know what brings Catalans together? Specifically, 84_percent of inquiries to the later published issue, the reference. What unites Catalans is the reference. Who's in favour of referral? So, the vast majority of this Parliament. In any case, if you want to look for reasons of isolation, reasons of radicality, you are looking at your own files, and you are looking at your government in Spain, which is precisely losing some votes at the Congress of Deputies of some laws, for example, the reform of the Constitutional Court, which with its impunity and absolutely lack of dialogue they wanted to impose. And today it turns out that the society, not Catalan, the Spanish society, to whom is it going? It's going to you, and it's systematically. And this is definitely a festival that's not over. And for what it does to economic data about whether we are prisoners or not prisoners of the CUP, I will also give them that to Catalonia the data of business growth, of internationalization of investments, of innovation, of foreign exports not only grow, but also that they lead the conjunction of the Spanish State. Do you think this is possible, honestly, to hold the two theses? The data I give you with the argument that this is a policy that is the result of the secrecy of what you say the anti-systems? That doesn't hold up. Therefore, it is data-based, please, if you want to make such compromises for the image of the country, and you intend not to escape a bad reputation of Catalonia that is not supported with concrete data, because, in the end, of this reality in living people and businesses, and people who are in the dark deserve that their political representatives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.113.0	President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.114.0	...that his political representatives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.115.0	Dotzena asks the Government, about the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the negligence of the Government in the compliment of the mandate of the Parliament in relation to guaranteed income of citizens]] [[317-00100/11]] The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.116.0	Thank you very much, President. President, the matter has been raised. So, the formula and the address to you, because it's no longer a matter of the Counselling of Work and Welfare, or of Social and Family Affairs, but it's already a matter of country, it's a question of country. Yesterday we gave the first step of the presuppositional debate, of the approval of the presuppositions, and we did not get out of it so that it effectively makes the guaranteed income of citizenship. In the figures that are presented, the same minimum income of insertion to which reference has been made this morning presents a lower allocation than the actual expenditure that took place during the financial year 2016, and also at the road yesterday we still have, again, unions, social entities, the same platform promoting the demand and demand the urgency of this guaranteed income. We ask you this question: do you believe... as it may have been, your government so negligent in the compliment of what was an explicit mandate of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.118.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rabell, what I hope is that the parliamentary groups are not neglecting the parliamentary mandate and we agree with what we are about to agree on and that, for reasons that they do not want to see directly with the background of the debate, we do not move away from an agreement that we have to play, if we want, if we want to, if we want to, political, because this compromise, this waiver of the neglect of what this Parliament approves and listens to the demand from the Catalan society, because it is indeed a question of a country, can come up with a good agreement; an agreement that, moreover, you have translated presupposition, and you know it, and the Council has said it, was said by the Vice-President and I will repeat it today. It's a game that's not diminished or it's the same, it's an increase of €70_million. And that, indeed, at the time when the Catalonian Parliament agreed that we are all waiting for it to be agreed and that we have more to do with it than with it, that is guaranteed income, effectively, this government will be on condition to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.119.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.120.0	Yeah, well, we talked about it. Let's talk about quantifiable magnitudes, because at the end of the day, it's what defines the concept. Look, Mr. Pere Aragonès has been saying for a few days that guaranteed income was inexhaustible from a presuppositional point of view because it involved a cost of up to 4,000_million euros. According to the parameters of the survey that has been developing and designing, let's say, the majority position, which was based on an income of sufficiency and on a parameters of gradual attention to families, the estimate and the numbers that came out of about 1,600_million euros. Therefore, we are speaking of a magnitude, of figures of this magnitude. Look, we – and I don't think they're the only parliamentary group, the PSC's companies have already expressed themselves in a similar vein, and I guess they're not the only ones, neither they nor we – we're fighting because they can, if not, play a sufficient game during..., by means of papers, there's a way to go after them: the contingencies, which are important in these assumptions, the margins that give us the slight increase in the sore of disability, but we can't go for a game as important as this one by managing other resources, such as, for example, the foment of occupation. I believe that the problem we have here, many times, in this debate, is an ideological problem. We fear that it still weighs heavily the idea that the poor are suspicious, and we expect that here a determined action will come to enable a match, like at least 500_million euros, to pose...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.121.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.122.0	...the little at the door, and start implementing guaranteed income.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.123.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.124.0	Thank you very much. The poor is an objective to eradicate. There are many ways to approach how we eradicate the poor in Catalonia. And I think that in the diagnosis we agree, I think that we should also agree, and I think that we are more close to the agreement than not to disagree, in the practical, effective, real receptions to be able to approach the goal of eradicating poor people in Catalonia. I ask them to be, too, generous, because in global figures I think we can agree, even if we can agree on the timing of implementation. But can we agree on the model? I've already answered... I asked you this question in a previous answer to a question from your group. This is the question: can we agree on the model? Because I believe that if we agree on the model – and there are grounds for agreeing, because there is one thing that seems to me to be a win, that is to incorporate active policies, that it is a win for everyone, also for what they understand the guaranteed income, because it is not simply about making a contribution to money without any type of co-responsibility; what this people wants is to opt to work, is the best guarantee that there is, say, to eradicate the poor – if we agree on the model, I am convinced that the challenge will end with an agreement and, therefore, that in the next few years we will be able to presuppose the quantities we need so that we finally have this instrument that we all want to have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.125.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the absolvement of excellence and equity in the education system with the assumptions presented]] [[317-00101/11]] The President asked Tretzena about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.126.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many honourable President, we have recently known the data from the PISA report, which, if they do not contain all the necessary elements to fully assess the performance of our education system, do give us some clues. We can celebrate and congratulate you for the better data correspondents in Catalonia, while occupying the five-year or six-year position of the global balance or for matters between the autonomous communities is not yet the excellence to which we aspire. Experts warn that Catalonia, together with Murcia or Asturias, are the communities in which the socioeconomic level and the social class have a greater weight in educational outcomes, and it does not produce an equality as strong as that which is produced for example in the Basque Country or in Castella and Lleó. The assumptions that have passed the exams to the totality of the opposition today continue to keep public education underfunded. What's your opinion of respect? How can we achieve the excellence and fairness that we all pursue?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.128.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, the answer you should give should reproduce an important part of the Vice-President's and Economics Councillor's intervention in the presentation of yesterday's assumptions, because you should remember perfectly that in the priorities of this Government, in the growth of the assumptions, the social parties, and especially the teaching, have an indisputable role and, among the teaching, if you are concerned about fairness, the special needs that have the centers that you know work with other complexities, because it is a guarantee of fairness, precisely, that you can allocate resources, perhaps or many, that we now have at your disposal, that you are pedaling for trying to get this kind of advice to the country, that you may not be very proud of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.129.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.130.0	President, we listened carefully to the Vice-President, and it is clear that the assumptions that his Government has just presented present some better, which we do not intend to deny, but we do want to draw attention to some very important facts. For example, the goal of the 6_per_cent educational investment granted on the basis of the approval of the Catalonia Education Law in 2009 is still very far away. They're offering us a 2.17_per_cent, and we've fallen below the 2010 level. Mrs Reguant reminded him yesterday: while 2010 was a student's expenditure of €4,215, she said it would be €3,620. The parties dedicated to construction, reform and the better part of the centres are very inadequate, when there are still 1,010 barracks in Catalonia. Not only do teaching places not increase enough, much more than the expansion claimed by 6,000 places, but they increase in 870, and this year 798 had to be contracted. Neither does the improvement of permanent training programmes nor the increase in their offer. The investment in training of the teaching staff cau in more than 57_per_cent respects 2010. There is no euro for pedagogical innovation. It is essential to ensure the replacement of the first day's downloads, increase the seedlings and recover the six-hour public education, in order to avoid that the socioeconomic level remains so decisive in the performance of the students. We're still a long way from excellence and fairness, and your government's assumptions don't catch us there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.131.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.132.0	Thank you very much. We are not far from equity, we are not far from it, because precisely if something shows the data of the PISA report is that just in equity– in equity– Catalonia occupies a very good position. I see that the assumptions did not please them, because you obviously all these measures that you find to be missing, some of them are – they looked at them well – but the combination of the measures that you would claim to sum up I do not know if a few thousand million euros more – a few thousand million euros more. And in the end the figures are counted and debated. Does this country generate and make a tax effort to get the money needed to hold the education model you assign to it? So, this country does it. Does this country have the fiscal effort of its people to be able to devote it to educational policies? So, no. Will you help us to keep the key to our fiscal effort so that we can devote it to what you and we agree on? This is a question that does not expect answer now, but it will have the opportunity to be answered, for example, in the state's own general assumptions, for example. Mr. Iceta, we've prioritized. We have prioritized to have, for example, more teachers than ever – more teachers than ever – 3,500 more teachers by 2017; we have prioritized centres with special educational needs; we have prioritized to guarantee fooder scholarships; we have prioritized to try to favor universities as well. That's all we've done. It gives for which it gives, however, at the time of being able to distribute the money, to us the priorities are very clear, and, believe me, we are not very proud.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.133.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the priority of the Government in relation to the model of public health in relation to the current situation of the health system]] [[317-00098/11]] Fourteenth question to the president on the political situation, formulated for the lady Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.134.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in Citizens we are very concerned about the public health situation in Catalonia. For too long, Catalans have suffered cuts, collapses in emergencies and absolutely intolerable waiting lists. Today there are eighty_y_eight people in the Vall d'Hebron waiting to be admitted into a room on the floor; some diagnostic tests have a waiting list of more than a year, and yesterday we had headlines in the press like this [[the speaker shows a full camera]] , in which the child ICU of the Hospital de Trueta collapses. For us, that issue is of vital importance, and that is why we want to know what is the opinion of the President of the Generalitat, what is the model of public health you want to bet on. How can you explain, as President of the Generalitat, to the Catalans that health is also a priority for you, for the President of the Generalitat? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.135.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.136.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, priority? Four hundred and eight million euros more. I hope that you will agree and that you will prefer 408_million euros more than not that they do not follow. What's the priority? What model is Catalonia's? So, the model that in these moments creates the interest and respect and admiration of the international community. And I say it without exaggeration. And if you know a little about the situation, the catal model, you'll see that it's a model that's very close and that in certain areas it's posed as a reference. We're not moving away from this path.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.137.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.138.0	Thank you. Mr President, you have to answer to the citizens of Catalonia, who suffer from the collapses, who suffer from waiting lists and who suffer in a corridor waiting for them to give them a room. I believe that, in order to improve health, priority must certainly be given, and that means having more resources and managing the best. And to have more resources I would say to you: do you consider that it is to prioritize health when, in your budget of the Generalitat, the item that increases Mr. Romeva's department is higher than what increases the item to reduce waiting lists? Is that a priority for you, Mr. President? Is it a priority for you not to go to the Conference of Presidents to talk about a better funding system, while tomorrow or the next morning you will have a meeting to repeat the 9-N? Is that a priority? And not only do we talk about how many resources – there I have to disagree with Councillor Comín –, it's also about how we manage our resources. On the waiting list there is also an important issue: there are doctors of the same specialty who have waiting lists of one month and others who have waiting lists of nine months. That can be managed better. And we have pre-registered a bill in this Parliament to improve the management of waiting lists. And do you know what your parliamentary group has done, Mr President? Introduce an amendment to the whole so that we can't even talk about this, see how we better manage resources. You do not want to go to work at the Conference of Presidents for a better funding system, you do not want to improve the prioritization of resources towards health in your budgets, and you do not even want to discuss how to better manage waiting lists, I insist, without sometimes implying an increase in budget allocation. The problems of Catalans are real, and they are from today, and they can't wait for the happy Arcadia that you are promising and that you know it won't come. Every day and every euro you set out to extend the maze towards separation is euros and days we lose to give better health to Catalans. Think again of the Catalans, reconnect with the reality of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.139.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.140.0	...and they'll be a government again. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.141.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.142.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The problems of Catalans are real, yes. The Dog for the Yes isn't real, huh? [[Let's give the rialles a round of applause.]] And that's not a Catalan problem, but you're very concerned about them, they're worried about them; they're worried about the Perreo for Yes, which is where they're going to do their parliamentary work. [[Widow's remorse.]] Calm down. Don't worry – don't worry. He's not nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.143.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.144.0	Are you concerned about the opinion of the citizens of Catalonia about their sanitation? It is very easy: look at the satisfaction questions, if they tell you something or consider them appropriate, look at the satisfaction questions of the users of Catalan sanitation, as they say. And I'll punch her with a eight and a half. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, listen. Do you care or not, the data? Perception can stretch like a tick, but the data is finally solid, and the perception of the citizen when asked: "Are you satisfied with the health model? ... so it turns out that they value him with a half and a half. And outside the country, I insist, the Catalan model is set as an example, as an example of very good practices. But do you agree to reduce waiting lists? So are we. Reducing them in a way, let's say, bluntly, as the counselor said before, would require about 1,000 million euros – about 1,000 million euros. In an interview a couple of days ago, a senior representative of his party, and a lot of economic questions, said that of the expense relief that they have managed to agree with the Government of the State there was, literally, quote: "4,000 million euros... for our priorities, referring to the priorities of Ciutadans; 4,000 million euros. Will they put some to work in favor of Catalonia reducing the structural deficit of sanitation, which would enable us, if we were to overcome, to meet the needs of the waiting lists? Four thousand million, they say they have their priorities. Will they prioritise any decision regarding Catalonia? We'll keep a close eye on him. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.145.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the response by the international community of the contrast between the attitude of the Spanish State and that of the Government of Catalonia in relation to the reference]] [[317-00102/11]] Fifteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the latest political events. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.146.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Very honorable president, Time magazine included the Catalonian reference between the events of the year 2017. That's no less, it's very symptomatic, because I think everyone has inside that they'll be referring to it or referring to it. Everyone in and out of Catalonia knows of the determination, not only of the absolute majority of this Parliament, not only of the Government that you preside, but also, and above all, of the vast majority of the people of Catalonia, who want to find in the ballot box the solution to the future politics of Catalonia. This man has an exception, obviously, that it is the Spanish State, which is still doing the deaf, continues because of the threat, intimidation, the brute game, the judicialization of politics and the politicization of justice. Where people want to put an urn, they ask for it. And this at the international level is also seen, you see just this contrast: our determination, our transversality, the democratic and peaceful radicality of the process, on the one hand, and the political blindness, our immobility and the phobic strategy to the democratic deepening on the other side of the State. The episode of past divestitures, when the Speaker of Parliament had to be declared, showed very much this contrast and had, I think, a lot of international visibility and impact. And everyone saw that the reference or reference was democracy and the demand or demand was imposition. This diviners, president, has called a summit for the referendum, a summit that will again be a demonstration not only, I insist, of this determination, but also of the strong political and social transversality of those who favour the referendum. That is why, President, we want to ask you about this contrast and how you think that all the steps that we take on one side, in contrast to those that the State does, are understood at the level of the international community.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.147.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.148.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, you actually quote one of the reference magazines, especially at the end of the year when you announce what will be the moving events that will pass in the world the following year, which is Time magazine. And between this fact, the situation in September of the year you see, is the reference that is announced and that will be made in Catalonia for the independence of Catalonia. Therefore, someone, and no less, gives credibility and is looking forward to what happens in Catalonia. In the second place, you also ask which is the perception that has come from the world of what is going on in Catalonia. I will cite recent examples of these past hours and days. A few hours ago we learned that the Conference of European Regional Parliaments gave support to the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, to President Forcadell. We have heard the explicit support of European parliamentarians and political representatives, such as, for example, the President of the Gal·lesa National Assembly; the twenty-two Members of the British Parliament who have signed an instant motion the Spanish State to stop judicializing politics; the support that has come from representatives of the Republic of Ireland; the support that has come, also, from the elected representatives of Scotland; fourteen Members of the United States who have asked the Federal Government to express their concern to the Spanish Government for the criminal procedure that is being followed in Catalonia; in Italy, various Members of Parliament have expressed their support, among whom the Vice-President of the European Commission, the Scottish and Slovenian MEPs; and the Member of Parliament who has been asked by his Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Deputy President of the Council of the European Affairs Committee, the President of the Scottish and Slovenian Governments, the President of the Council of the European Parliament, the Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Finland, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Minister, the Minister, the Minister of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Minister of Ireland, the Prime Minister of Ireland, the Minister of Ireland, the Minister of the Minister of the President Jan Peumans said: "I am of the opinion that the task of the president of a parliament is to organize the widest and most open space possible for the political debate and, by this means, to promote the expression of all the views of society. The Parliament of Catalonia has been democratically elected and can rest on a long democratic tradition that has a broad support among the citizens of Catalonia. Letter addressed to the Spanish Government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.149.0	Thank you, President. [[Member's compatibility status]] [[234-00150/11]] After the control session we move to the next point of the order of the day, which is the compatibility situation of a Member. The third secretary, Mr Joan Josep Nuet, will read out the opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies, which has also been published in the plenary file. I ask the secretary to proceed to the reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.150.0	Thank you, President. "The Commission of the Statute of the Deputies, at its plenary session on 20 December 2016, agreed to draw up the following opinion. After examining the data declared for the Member Sergio Santamaría Santigosa concerning the professional, labour or business activities which he carries out and the public authorities which he occupies, in addition to Article 23.1b of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission shall take into account the legislation applicable in the matter of the incompatibilities of the Members, in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Rules of Procedure, proposing to the Plenary the situation of compatibility of the Member Sergio Santamaría Santigosa. The secretary of the committee, Maria Senserrich and Guitart, and the chairman of the committee, Jorge Soler González, signed it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.151.0	Can this opinion be considered approved by consent? [[Pause.]] Let's move on, then, to the next point of the order of the day. [[Proposal for a resolution on the defence of the freedom of expression and the right of initiative of the Members of the Parliament of Catalonia and the compromise to preserve them by means of all their governing bodies]] [[250-00752/11]] The fourth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the defence of freedom of expression and the right of initiative of the Members of the Parliament of Catalonia and the compromise to preserve them by means of all their governing bodies. In accordance with Rule 165.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed resolutions may be submitted by the group or parliamentary groups which are the authors of the proposal. As this motion for a resolution has been tabled jointly by two parliamentary groups, we shall proceed, first of all, to the turn of interventions by these groups, for a maximum of two minutes. In the first place, has the word Ms. Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.152.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to you all. From a few years ago, the country has manifested itself in its clear form in two senses: eth right now self-determination and eth social and democratic change. And he is no less than in Europa's hornet, or Europa who has an alarming ascent to the far right, despite episodes of racist cutting border barrages, despite regressive economic policies, accomplices to austerity and increasing inequalities. Aguest country, aguest small country, luenh to align itself with aguest mes repressiu and poc egalitari, aufri alternative of change, of mes democratisation, of mes equality and of mes justice. And the country that is most grateful is repeated attempts by the Spanish state to keep us stuck in a centralist values, to reject the front line of democratization, to negotiate human rights and collectivities. Diendres past era deuant deth Tribunal Superior de Justícia de Catalonha giving supreme now President of the August Parliament and reaffirming was approval of the conclusions of these constituent trials, which we have already begun. Because, we insist, in this country and in this clear social majority that you are here today. Tanben will be at this side of the table. It is deputies Corominas, Simó, Barrufet, Nuet, and an aut cop was President Forcadell, denouncing the attack on the representatives of the people, denouncing this judicial violation that I have claimed to suspect bereavements of the resolutions of the policy debate generate that all of us here are here. Defending eth lawsuits constitute eth referendum. We're defending because we're defending 84 percent of this country's population. I'm defending you, too, from the Spanish state, from the authoritarian regime, from the captor of freedom and sovereignty. Defence was free to speak of referendums, to speak of constituent trials and to speak of what we dongue was all about. In the past, we want to arrive at agreements of separation from the regime deth 78, which is not such a cause, I will not say any other cause than to judge Members, to coerce was freedom of expression, was inviolable from Parliament's opinion and from Members and Members of Parliament. We want to make it clear that you are due, eth referendum and eth trial constitute, will do yes or yes. We want to make it clear that we are helping to make this happen as much as possible. Because we wanted to stop them from changing, we thought it was independence and it was the opening of a trial that constituted sound, or Poden Ester, if not social justice. And we can't just talk about it. And here's the call for what we're doing at the Tribunau Constitucionau, this is the State Prosecutor's Office, this is the State Attorney's Office, this is the deth madeish Govèrn der Estado, by Vox, by Catalan Civil Society, by Clean Hands. This is a gear that will provide for the empire of you and your people that will punish your loved ones that will give you debate, that will talk, discuss, parliamentary, that you want people who are willing to listen to 85 percent of the population of today's country. And that's all we want to make clear..., and to a nom, and you say: Declaration 1/XI, deth 9 of nine me. This proposal for a resolution aimed at saving, affirming, empowering was the sovereignty of the aguest parliament in the face now approval of the Law of Transition, in the face now convening and realization of this referendum, and now organization and execution of these trials constitute. They stick to what they do, so much so that they look at a high-end legal text that has been written to them for a long time, a text that I have written, that I have died and buried, that we have already put it in blue content of recycling. He felt that she was a summons now president and the members of this Bureau, as a complaint in a criminal trial, we were forced to yesterday, in this chamber, to reflect on a few things. He was the first to know that being a state didn't mean it was a dialectic. You know, you know, and that gives us two options. It was first and foremost to assist the great wills of change of this country, and, therefore, not to deny it was possible that it was the majority of this population to resolve in favour of independence and not to deny it was the possibility that the present country should constitute a trial; a trial is not to be determined after the dictatorship. I want to do it and I want to do it again. It was a good option and we limit to that restrictive application of this law, interpreted by the centralist expert of whom it is drafted, and implemented for that judiciary that is not still debugged. And this, against that not the Statute. And, as you can imagine, we are most favorable for the first option. And by that time, we can't wait for a month. And indeed, as Members and Members, there are some questions that are important. And to parliamentary groups willing to standardize that it is acting on pain against it was the presidency and was Mesa deth Parliament? No, we're not. Is there any parliamentary group that his supporter of denying eh debate in Parliament? No, we're not. And to parliamentary groups that they want to use was you and is then a tribune to deny eth debat en carrêr? No, we're not. And it's a pre-pause of resolution and tanben an act of sobriety from August Parliament. Mesei, tanben, dad nosati, an act of disobedience. He who can't admit it was only the assumption that she was president and is now members of the Bureau are still jutjadi or incapacitated for an ordinary tribune. Eth Parliament, as an institution cannot admit that it was its authority to question itself, or that an age-old tribune was empowered to disqualify a president who is superior to his majority parliament that reflects the popular mandate. Poqui cos can say how we were tied reason and democratic reason, legalized and legitimized. Not here and in conflict between legality and democratic principles, was legality and was supremacy of democracy now. And when we said that eth Parliament was not touched, because it was our sovereignty, it was she who said that eth Parliament is inviolable, because they represent you at all, that she is going to give exactly this, that eth Parliament is not touched. And it came to pass, when he heard, that we would send him, that he that hath left him, that hath left him, and that hath left him democracy, and he that is, the Spanish State, because he hath called an undemocratic political judge. And we also want to remind you that they are not first and are not the only political judges that the Spanish State has seized and is still in existence. As a guest, he was his usual practice. At the end of it, as they went back and went back to where it started, denied eth political conflict of the Hons, refused to talk about it, refused to find a democratic solution from a referendum, treated as a purely legal, criminal, and even irresponsible theme. To judge without legitimacy is not to impart justice except that I am a mere exercise of power, and he is an authoritative attitude, to subdue us, to exercise eth power arbitrarily. And from this, I am told that I am told what I am qualified to do, that I am tyranny, that I am a dictatorship. And today we don't want any months, jams, crazy, against arrests, and still against the people of Catalonia and they're legitimate popular power. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.153.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. The words of Mr Lluís Llach, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.154.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, today we present a motion for a resolution in defence of the freedom of expression and the right of initiative of the Members of this Parliament and the dignity of the elected bodies which they manage and represent. I would like to thank Catalonia. Yes, it is. It is her willingness to compromise and improve the consensus, because we are finally talking about democracy. This proposal has no other objective than to oppose the sequence of attacks with which the two-name Government of Spain - the judiciary tries to annihilate the functions, objectives, prerogatives and, ultimately, the sovereignty of this Parliament. That's right, you're solemnly erected in the tomb of Montesquieu. The political powers that dominated the State during these forty years did not have enough to destroy the Constitution of 78, and by force of making a restrictive reading of it, that which was to be a window buildings open to democracy and freedom, have converted it into an old barracks and with stillers, inaccessible to the political needs of the people but servilely accessible to the interests of the great oligopolises, customers and power-griggers, as it was manifested with the night reform of Article 135 of the Constitution. The text of 78, which was to be that where, once democracy settled, you allowed it to evolve and improve it, became a minefield, a text that was obsolete and definitely unusable for society's longings, and particularly for Catalan society, according to all the questions. Today, from this farostol, we should warn the aspirants to Spanish citizens who, despite what they say to them continuously, do not have the problem with Catalonia; the deep – deep – problem they have with the same Spanish democracy, which continues to treat them, treating us as subjects. A political system that is defined as democratic must not be a militant, nor unremovable, mark; in it all political expressions, from reformists to rupturists, are a bitch. The victory of independence in the later elections and the will of the majority of this chamber to be loyal to the democratic mandate rejected has multiplied the democratic stereotypes of the State, and so we find that, at the insistence of the always fined general prosecutorial office, a criminal complaint is filed and admitted against the President of the Parliament for allowing the approval of the conclusions of the Constituent Committee of the Study of the Process, which I ill-presiding, on July 27, 2016. Certainly, an unprecedented fact in the democratic countries of the European Union that surround us. And when we thought that we had seen everything, that nothing could surprise us any more, we watched astonishments as the state government exult and exult when it discovers a concept that, as it turns out, is new in its political practice, that it is the dialect – the dialect –; repeat the word as if it were a talism and learn it coming to Barcelona to dialogue with them themselves. Fantastic. Ditirambic. To see so many difficulties in your practice exercises, humbly, yes, I offered them a small dictionary of antonyms about the dialog. Dialeg, first of all: the use of courts to deal with conflicts of political nature is a clear perversion of the democratic quality of the Spanish State. Dialeg, antónim segon: banning debate in a parliament is to deny the abecedari of democratic language and even more so if the debate is required for the same parliamentarians, scrupulously in agreement with what the Rules of this chamber dictates, which, in passing, in Article 21 of the third chapter, defines us all as inviolable for our opinions and votes during the exercise of our functions. Dialeg, for the third time: to push the steps of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to the President of the Parliament to manage a debate is a seminal disarray and a democratic fraud, posed to speak of fraud; to pursue the debates of ideas by the criminal court is inconceivable in any democracy that deserved that name. As the President herself said, we live in a country where everyone can talk about our process of independence, families, tertules, radios, televisions, journalists, politicians, sociologists..., everyone, everyone can talk about it, except the institution that represents all those who talk about it, this Parliament. Dialeg, before the fourth: in democracy and the court can force the Bureau of this institution to censor the issues that need to be discussed in Parliament on behalf of its deputies and deputies, and less so if they are responsible for a large part of the citizenry. Yesterday, when I was in charge of defending this proposal, four members of the Bureau had a dialogue calling for a request from the State's lawyer, who saw that she was constantly excited about our activities and vices; for this demand it is intended to force the members of the Bureau to exercise censorship on the issues that this Parliament wants to discuss and cancel parliamentary declarations, which is as much as it is to start using the word in its parliament. In short, they curse to manipulate the debate in this Parliament; in short, in the palau of political reasoning they want to ban the word, and in short, the house of popular representation pretend to erase the will of a large part of the same people. Today we want to retaliate the president, tomorrow we want to coerce the Bureau, and I just want to ask us when we will be sealed off our mouths, each other. [[Greetings.]] I'm done... I'm done... don't applaud the female kiss singers. [[Rialles.]] I end with a few words from President Forcadell: "We will continue to defend the sovereignty of Parliament in order to guarantee its plurality and richness; we will continue, of course. We will stand firm in the defence of democracy and freedom of expression, because now is the time of politics and not of the courts. We'll keep it, of course, that no one doubted it. Thank you, President. And today this dinner is not a courtesy formula. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.155.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Llach. In order to defend the papers presented, Mr. Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.156.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Generalitat, deputies, councillors..., listening to these first speeches, these two speeches, you use an old technique, a technique that is already invented, that is not new, eh? You don't think you've invented it, which is political victimism. And political victimism is always part of a premise, part of an external enemy that oppresses – that has been used in other countries, it is nothing new, as I say to you, you know, that of "Spain robs us, " do not let us vote" ; an external enemy that they forget, moreover, that they have been pacting with that... [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.157.0	Please – please – ask them to respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.158.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.159.0	It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.160.0	Thank you. As I was telling you, an external enemy in which you defend yourselves; an enemy, by the way, with whom you have been negotiating fiscal amnesty, energy reforms, labor reforms... [[Greetings.]] The Masters of Convergence are very friends of this external enemy; in fact, they have practically ruled with him, and cases of corruption have been covered up for each other. But it is always the fault of others; it is the fault of the Spanish courts, which are politicized. But then we put forward a proposal to depoliticize the courts here in Catalonia and you disagree. Is it not perhaps that you want to choose your judges, as you do in the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia? Because, then, in the Congress of Deputies, against, and in the Parliament of Catalonia, also against. And then you never make self-criticism; you never make mistakes, you do everything right. They never mismanage, they never have cases of corruption, they never have debts to pay, they never make mistakes. We are the others who are wrong, and when they disagree with our speech they say that we are demagogic, that is another of those very old and already invented words. And, finally, what they like best is to distort reality. And they do so with this proposal today, which clearly distorts reality. And it distorts reality because it is a proposal that says that we cannot talk about everything in this Parliament. And that's a lie. Why is that a lie? Because in this Parliament we can and talk about everything every day. Mrs Forcadell and the rest of the members of the Government and of Junts pel Yes, do you think there is any Catalan who is believed to be unable to speak of separation in this Parliament? But if you talk every day. Look, I have prepared a calendar for you in which you are all full, absolutely all full, since this legislature began, and you have spoken of independence every day: January, February, March, April, May, June, July – in August, no, because fortunately there is no full –, September, October, November and December. They have spoken every day of independence, every day [[applause]] Every day in this plenary session. Every day you have talked about independence, but you say no, that you cannot talk about separation in the Parliament of Catalonia. Look, fortunately, in this Parliament we can talk about everything, as it has to be in democracy, fortunately we can talk about everything, also of separation, as it cannot be otherwise. In fact, as I have shown you, you have spoken every day of separation; you have done absolutely every day. Unfortunately, there are other topics that don't talk so much, huh? You know, for example, about education, where the president already said he didn't like to talk about issues like the Koiné manifesto, that that doesn't touch, now that doesn't touch that in Parliament. They don't talk about dependency. And what they never talk about, what they never talk about, is corruption. I don't know what's wrong with them, they never talk about it. I've prepared you another calendar of corruption. Please note: January 2016, corruption, not one day have spoken of corruption; February, one day; March, not one day; April, not one day of corruption; May, not one day of corruption... I have every month, eh? Do you know what are the only times that corruption has been talked about in this Parliament? When Citizens have put forward a proposal for corruption, because you don't like to talk about corruption. [[Greetings.]] And I understand that the gentlemen of Convergence do not like to talk about corruption, because they have seized seats; they have had to change the name of the party, they have had to invent another party. But, gentlemen of Republican Left, don't you talk about corruption? , and the gentlemen of the UPC, don't talk about corruption? That's what worries me. Because I understand that Convergence doesn't want to talk about corruption, I understand that those who have to change their party name, their acronyms, and their seats, don't want to talk about corruption. But, gentlemen of Esquerra, the truth is that I expected something more from you in this regard. We will vote against this proposal and we will vote against it because we do not agree that we cannot talk about everything in this Parliament. We believe that absolutely everything can and is talked about in this Parliament, and it is done every day. And as I have shown you, independence, separation, Brexit, 9-N, summits, summits, disconnection, we speak absolutely every day, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members. We have tabled a number of amendments, which have logically not been accepted, because we were asking for something as revolutionary as the law; we were asking for something as revolutionary as the law is the same for all. We do not want political privileges. Maybe you do, but we don't. Today, in the Congress of Deputies, we have put a question to the Government in which we demand an end to the outbursts. That which you do not like so much, because you also voted against the riggings. Finally, already, in a proposal we have recently tabled, they have had nothing but a vote in favour, they have had nothing but a third vote in favour of putting an end to the havoc. Today we presented it at the Congress of Deputies, because for that the Constitution changes very quickly. There is an express reform and there is an end to the strangulations. But you don't like it, you prefer political privileges. Well, we, in our amendments, have proposed ending political privileges. We have finally proposed that we are all equal before the law. Because, you see, all ideas, of course, belong to democracy, to all ideas, to those who are separatists and to those who are not. That is democracy, and this Parliament is debating all ideas, as it has to be, as it cannot be otherwise. And so you legitimately defend your ideas and we defend ours legitimately, and with respect to others, that I believe it must be the formula that must always prevail in a democratic parliament as in which we are. Ideas can be defended from all points of view, but do you know what you can never do? Skip to the laws. That's what we politicians can never do, because if politicians skip democratic laws, how are we going to demand that citizens don't? How are we going to demand that citizens comply with the laws if the image that politicians are giving from our seat, by the way, that they pay us the salary to work and not to jump us the laws, we constantly skip them? Laws can be changed if they don't like them. Now they have it harder, because they are in the Joint Group, but they can change them; the laws can be changed, with effort. When you don't like something in democracy you can change, you can improve, you can reform. You guys prefer to jump at it. The other, I assure you, and I tell you firsthand, requires more work. We have to talk, we have to negotiate, we have to deal with some, we have to deal with others, and that is very difficult. Some of you have shown that you are incapable of doing so. Unfortunately these amendments that we have tabled..., has confirmed to us the spokesman of Junts for If they have not been accepted, none of them has been accepted, therefore, we understand that we have to understand that you think that politicians can be above the laws and that it doesn't matter the rules of the game, you have yours. How are they going to comply with the Constitution, how are they going to comply with the Statute of Catalonia, how are they going to comply with the laws, how are they going to comply with the Rules of Procedure of Parliament if they do not comply with the code of conduct that we have unanimously voted on by all Members of this Parliament? If you forgive the CUP, Convergence, the code of conduct, it will be that the budgets are complicated. If they do not comply with the code of conduct voted unanimously by all Members of this Parliament when a person is not respected, regardless of whether he is king, minister or prince of Asturias [[applause]] If that is radically broken, what sense does it make for us to be discussing law enforcement today? If you do not comply with the code of conduct that you voted for, too, President – you also voted for it, the code of conduct. Honestly, as I was telling you, when laws don't like them, they can be changed. You've preferred to skip the ones you change the ones. You'd rather jump over the laws than reform them. In this Parliament we talk about everything, in this Parliament we talk about separation every day. This Parliament has all the ideas. You continue to make political victimism – you continue to make political victimism – we will make politics for you. You continue to make summits to talk about 9-N. By the way, you voted against the 9-N, don't you remember? Three days ago you voted against a referendum; now the referendum is the great solution. You continue to make summits of the 9-N, you continue to leave the chair empty at the conference of presidents, Mr Puigdemont, which we will already make politics. Don't worry, we'll do it. You continue with your summits and your meetings. And then, as a last thought, and I tell you with all due respect, Mr Lluís Llach, I was lucky enough to be born in democracy, but you know, and you know it firsthand, which is a time when you can't talk and you can't talk about everything, and I think fortunately we're in democracy, and in democracy and in this Parliament of Catalonia you can talk about everything and you do it every day, as it can't be otherwise. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.161.0	Thank you very much, Mr De Paramo. Next, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.162.0	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President. Well, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the motion that comes after we have incorporated... and we thank you very sincerely, for the attention and cure with which we have been able to talk about a whole series of points that we have raised, that have been incorporated and that we think that, in fact, they align or specify the terms of the resolution that is ultimately subject to your approval. Look, there's a first problem – there's a first problem – that just came up or came up now, and it's that, formally, it's true, here we can talk about everything, huh? Everyone can get up and say what they want, too, the problem is more complicated. The problem is much more complicated – we are now having a little bit of proof – and, in fact, the perception that it is – and it is something that we have noted and demanded that it is laid down in the resolution, because it is important and relevant – in the democratic sphere, in the European Union countries, in the context of consolidated democracies, there is a moment of perplexity before what is happening here, of perplexity; because it is not frequent..., we are not talking about a judge speaking before a person who is representing the public for a matter of corruption, for a crime... No, no..., we are talking about something that is unheard of in the functioning of democracy, and it is about the disengagement of the judiciary in the debate. This is unprecedented, and that, in addition, is making him put on the street. That's still more unusual, huh? Therefore, we have a hard democratic anomaly and a hard political problem. And, so, we can't keep it, can we? I believe that what we need to hear and what is being raised before this Parliament and what we need to be aware of is that we have a few legitimates; there is at this time a few legitimates. I have the derivatives you have. We have noted that there is an important and serious political problem, a serious fact, which is the judicialization of a conflict of political nature. We said the other day accompanying President Carme Forcadell when she went to testify before the High Court of Justice; the diluns also, with companion Nuet. We said it and we repeated it, because... – and we think that, from this point of view, this speech is aimed at democratic public opinion–, it is not possible to transform, to transfer to the penal path to the one that has to solve politics through the constraints that politics knows, which is the dialect, which is the confrontation of lives, the confrontation of proposals, the interpellation of the opinion of the citizenry by democratic methods, to the whole conflict posed in terms of democracy, the pact, the agreement. These are the instruments used by politics to resolve in a civilized way those disagreements, those conflicts that arise in societies. Okay. We're in front of a very perverse situation that puts in a path without exiting a conflict of political nature like the one that arose, huh? , in the manifestation of a democratic aspiration of Catalan citizenship, which somehow feels uncomfortable– and this is much wider than the will or independence option in the current political framework– and which aspires to a self-government that goes much further. Okay. That is the problem we have raised. Either we approach it and place it in a land where we have possible solutions, which is in politics, or if we place it in the sphere of justice, the path without exit is obvious, and the only conclusion is criminalization, because we are establishing a criminal route. In the end, the conclusion of a criminal proceeding is a conviction. It can be absolute, but it can be a..., it can have different steps, but it brings us here, and, finally, this is the dynamic that's set. We have also raised some issues because we think that because of this, because the conflict has to be conducted and brought back to the political ground, it is important to carry on democratic reasons and to place the issues in the clearest terms. Look, we've raised a few points that are in the sense of undermining a question in which we may sometimes be overly controversial and placed in uncertain terrain. Freedom... in democracy, freedom is not something that is "irrestricted, something that has no restrictions. Democracy is not freedom without limits or the exercise of majority power. Freedom is the respect of the majority, the preservation of minority rights and democratic working rules. And also a certain relationship of democracy with the legal order, with the laws, because, even so, we can't imagine a situation in which representative democratic institutions seize..., calling on popular sovereignty to do anything. And, from this point of view, the organs that preside and manage a parliament, a representative institution, it is true that they order and limit the exercise of certain powers, precisely to guarantee the rights of minorities and the democratic functioning. Therefore, there is no free bar, but this... an ultra-liberal conception brings us, precisely, to tyranny and leads us, precisely, to question the true foundations of democracy. That's important to say because when there's a legitimate conflict in the end, it resolves the conflict either by force or by negotiation. And that..., which doesn't necessarily mean for the rape, but the bump has been planted. And then we need, to prolong the conflict in a land of dialogue and a democratic land, to build vast social majorities that build up this dynamic of justice and which, therefore, place the land in the debate..., there, in the area where citizenship can be mastery of its destiny and its decisions. I am very glad that it has been discussed, and I think it was the President who said so, that in the Congress of Deputies the authoritarian and centralizing attitude of the People's Party begins to have difficulties in large-scale votes or significant votes. We hope that we will fall, that our fellow Members will contribute to the fall of that express reform of the functions of the Constitutional Court which placed him on the front line of conflict and that he will, rather than arbiter of the justness or constitutional fonament of things, be a gendarme, eh? And, above all, the Constable of parliamentary life, huh? Let's hope we do this, that we get it. Which actually proves that, however often they also feel in this room, many things are moving to Spain, too, huh? And that there's also a democratic public opinion that's gaining ground and that hasn't said its last word all over this, all over here. Therefore, we will insist on saying two things: neither judicialization... but also construction at the time of large democratic social majorities in favour of the right to decide, in favour of the taking of the word of the citizenry, in favour of democracy. Because we understand, too – we understand, too – that one of the aspects of the struggle for democracy is the preservation of institutions and that we also understand... – and this is an important debate that this Parliament will have to do and that it will have to go after this Parliament – that the disobedience that we talk about is a response and action of civil society, but that it cannot have the same translation at institutional level. Therefore, we make it clear. It is a perversion to democracy and a tempt to the normal functioning of a parliament such as that of Catalonia. At the same time, we are looking for "majorities of society", calling for democratic public opinion because we do not want to propitiate to that thing..., to which we would like to commit for its logic the Spanish Government, which is a stumbling block, an institutional frontal shock. We must look for the support of political democracy and citizen opinion just to deal with and resolve the conflict in a land where we can have a solution. Let us hope, therefore, that this will be the case, that we will contribute to this position and to this debate. And once again, therefore, to express our solidarity with the President of this Parliament at the time... so in this very complex situation that she is living at these times. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.163.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Next, to fix its position, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.164.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies..., the Socialist Party of Catalonia and its parliamentary group have always been a staunch defender of the Catalan institutions and their self-government. So much so that if we know them in the current form, in those of the Generality of Catalonia and the conjunction of its institutions, it is for the special insistence of the Catalan lefts – and with the PSC as one of the main actors – because at the time that this was under discussion there were other options on the table. And if we have, therefore, with the period of the Republican Generality, it has been by special insistence of the Catalan lefts, the PSU at its time, the PSC and other formations that require the return of the Generality. The debate we are discussing today, therefore, deeply saddens us, and we give it with all sincerity. The situation we find ourselves saddened and worried about at the time. We consider it deeply regrettable and, among other things, we regret it because we believe that it could have been avoided. First of all, I should never have approved the reform of the Constitutional Court's Organic Law, which was promoted by the PP, which to a large extent denaturalized it, and in this sense I will not go because I refer to the words of Lluís Rabell to respect. And for this reason the Socialists, among others, have voted in favour of the initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party to repeal it. Nor should we seek a solution to the political debates we have raised as a society – or to what we have raised now or, in general, as a whole – through a judicial offensive, through the judicialization of politics. Not only will we not find solutions to the debate we have raised as society, but we will probably take advantage of the prospects of finding dialogue and agreement solutions, which is what we need to look for when a society, obviously, is as diverse and plural as our own. And in this sense we call for reflection on the political party that at this time occupies the main responsibilities of the Government of Spain, which is the People's Party, but also those that support it, like Ciutadans. The strategy that the People's Party is following, not so much now, but many years ago, has been greatly exacerbating the conflict we are experiencing. Because it is a conflict, when there is an institutional crisis of representation, of the territorial organization of the State with which we are living, when there is, indeed, a clash of legitimacy with which we are living. It was an enormous irresponsibility to treat Catalonia's constitutional reform process as the People's Party treated it, with the sole and spurious intention of obtaining an electoral vote, which probably obtained, in part, thanks to these questions. But it was a huge irresponsibility that just now we are starting to glimpse some popular party spokesman – some popular party spokesman – who admits to me that this was a mistake. But it was still a mistake the way in which a public campaign against this State ran from the territory of Spain came to an end; it was a huge mistake. And from then on, nothing has happened other than to concatenate errors and plantations that have affected the relations between the Catalan institutions and the joint institutions of the State. When will this absolutely obtuse strategy end? We don't know, but we're making a call to reflection so that it doesn't make the problem worse. On the other hand, we have found a strategy, which we have also publicly denounced in this chamber, a strategy of escalation in the confrontation, in the clash of legitimacy between the Catalan institutions and the institutions of the Government of Spain also fed from here, also from a certain majority. And it's not that I'm inventing anything, or it's a pure appreciation of me: there's enough to read some – not all, but some – of the Council Advisor's reports for the National Transition to see how an appeal is made to exploit the contradictions that may exist in a given system, which is that of the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy. And it's a strategy that's well-known; I'm not going to talk to you about political victimism, because I didn't come to this, but the classic strategy of forcing the seams of a particular political system to continue reporting the consequences that can come from this forcing the seams, right? From this year on, from this leap to the wall. In some cases, there are actually democratic contradictions on the table that may exist. In all democracies there are imperfections and we know well that ours is far from being a complete and perfect democracy, like, for another gang, many of our surroundings; but there are none other than apparent contradictions, if we want to go a little further than the land of the slogan. In this sense, let's say that we can't share the main premise that this motion for a resolution starts from your own title, huh? – « Motion for a resolution to defend the freedom of expression and the right of initiative of the Members of the Parliament of Catalonia –, because..., and we cannot share this premise and, therefore, even if we agree with some general demonstrations that are in favour of the motion for a resolution, we will not be able to vote in favour of it. Among other things, because we have discussed the question of Catalonia's self-determination and the question of Catalonia's independence in this Parliament since the first parliamentary term. We have been in charge of looking for some of these occasions; I will not hate them with a list of all because, let's say, according to a large enough remarkable, but to go only to those who are computerised and have, therefore, easy to find, already year 98 there was... Go, year 89 there was an initiative on the right of self-determination of the Catalan nation; year 98– and for the thousand, eh? , but year 98–, a non-law proposal on the initiation of a process towards the independence of Catalonia; a proposal for a popular consultation by reference to the independence of Catalonia, the year 2010; the Commission for the Study of the Right to Decide and a long series– long, I say, not the abhorrex – from initiatives sometimes driven by civil society, sometimes by parliamentary groups, for the Joint Group, on the question of independence and self-determination. So he talked about it. And the same Constitutional Court, in response to the Government of Spain, when the Government of Spain claimed that it could not be constituted or that the constitution of the Commission for the Study of the Constituent Process, which is the concrete and most immediate reason for which we find ourselves in this debate, was annulled, replied to the Government that it could not estimate its claim, because 'it is inherent', and I say with words of the same Constitutional - "to every democratic parliamentary system the possibility of subscribing to political discussion any question of general interest. And it is obvious that the secession of Catalonia is a transcendent issue of general interest that can be debated and debated. This does not mean, however, that any one of the governing levels of a complex state with our own, can adopt any decision on matters of general interest, ignorant, to do so – and more so in cases as far as they are concerned – the mechanisms of law reform, the reform of the State or the reform of the Constitution. In this sense, I also agree with a good part of Mr. Rabell's intervention. And if you want to look around us, we can see the very interesting feeling of the Italian Constitutional Court about the reference for the independence of Veneto, which, in general, coincided with some of these arguments that I am exposing you. Look, we're sorry our efforts were due. I can assure you, and you know, that we have done everything possible like the Socialist Parliamentary Group because we do not find ourselves in this situation, in order to try to avoid the institutions of our country, the Government of the Generality of Catalonia and, in the sense of doubt, also the Bureau of Parliament, a situation with which today is produced. But, as I said, so far it has turned out debatable. You say, for one band, that to make the trout break the eggs, and for another band, I don't know if it's said, but it's very clear with this idea that the hardest thing to do is to apply, with this idea, that we don't share in absolute, reliable lex and perish worldly, huh? We don't agree, you do the law, so the world dies. We believe that this is the very denial of politics and we commit the People's Party to giving another type of political response to the situation and the debate in Catalonia. If that is not the case, we will remain in this atmosphere where we find ourselves, and it is a situation that we also deeply regret and fight against. We understand, therefore, perfectly the determination of the independent forces in the pursuit of their objectives, because we have equal determination in the achievement of our objectives; but to whom we commit ourselves. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – it is to reverse the current dynamic of escalation in the institutional confrontation, the clash of legitimacy, and to enter into a phase of distension and dialogue, in which we do not ask – it would not happen – any political formation that I renounced its political objectives and its maximum program, but in which we do ask...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.165.0	Mr. Pedret, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.166.0	I'm done. In that we do ask that we give ourselves the opportunity to find a democratic political solution to our situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.167.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.168.0	President, ladies and gentlemen, advisers and advisers, will allow me a first reference to the intervention of Mr Ferran Pedret, in terms of allusions. You referred to the responsibilities that the People's Party may have held over the years, and it is clear that when a person assumes governmental responsibilities, he assumes that, responsibilities, is entirely right. But I ask you that when you do a certain analysis, you also do it with a broader look and remember how the State debate began; that I don't know if it's really the reason we're talking about what we're talking about here or not, but in any case, I would like to remind you that the State debate started with what it said "the Tinnell Pact", that it was a pact in which its parliamentary group was and that, basically, it was the People's Party's political wing in Catalonia. [[applause]] and political wing the political majority force that at that time ruled Spain. So, when you do analytics, you don't just ask for the self-criticism of others, but you also do self-criticism of what you do yourself. This motion for a resolution that brings us to today's debate is based on assumptions that, without beginnings, we will tell them that they are false and that our group cannot share. First of all, the investigation of what the president is objecting to, is neither to cast a vote nor for an opinion; it is for an act of disobedience, and in democracy disobedience has these things, which have consequences – it has consequences. Nor can the inviolability of Members be called; the inviolability of Members applies, precisely, to votes and opinions expressed in the discharge. Article 21 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure cannot be read. It is obvious that no Member can take advantage of the inviolability to commit actions that may be considered criminal, because, in democracy, democracy is that all – all – are the same before the law, we are still Members, we are still Members of the Bureau, we are still President of the Parliament or we are still Councillors. Neither is the freedom of expression in question – the third element. Preventing a concrete debate in a place where it does not correspond is a common practice. So usual that, look, this very week, our parliamentary group we have been notified to the Governance Committee of this Parliament that they do not allow us to forward some papers to a proposal of law being processed in the Parliament, amending the Law of Veighers. The views of our parliamentary group had the joy of questioning the vegues and the comarques. They were not allowed to proceed for a decision of the Bureau of the Governance Commission, chaired by a member of the CUPs and employed in a legal report– this, yes – based on a ruling of the Constitutional Court. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's clear – it's clear – that it's not possible to talk about what I give you the real win, it's not that they want it to talk about what I don't give you the real win. [[Greetings.]] You want to spend the day talking about independence; others want to talk about the things that are the competence of this Parliament, such as the old days and the locals. In short, you know perfectly well that appealing to the compliment of the laws is not a problem of democracy. Precisely because democracy is based on laws, and it is democratic laws that guarantee the exercise of democracy. And precisely the authority of parliamentary chambers, the authority of this parliamentary chamber is in the force of the law. How would he feel there would be parliamentary chambers if his laws were not to be complimented? Captain. In democracy there is also another deciding factor: it is that the laws can be changed. Yes, in the corresponding place and with the corresponding majorities. Yes, they need to do it in the right place and with the right majority. What is not democratic is precisely disobeying laws. I'll put a simile on it, very banal surely: the semen do not limit the mobility of people, the semen regulate the mobility of people; the laws do not limit democracy, they regulate it. But we are fully aware that this is not the debate. The issue is that you, those who want independence, have a political party objective and constantly use provocation to look like what it is not: that you are against rights, that you are against freedom, that there is no democracy, that you have oppressed it. Look, this sounds to me like a song inspired by imaginary poetry, which some of the kisses ended up believing. In reality, what is little democratic is to skip the traffic light in red to consciousness and complain about the fine, violate laws and complain about consequences, ignore democratic lives, press the judicial system, provocation, photos – photos. Not just the photo of someone pushing the High Court of Justice, the photos of the counselors are notified and teaching the notification before the hemisphere, or posing! , or posing in front of the journalists, because it is clear. [[Widow's remorse.]] This is their staging, it's the search for sacrifices and the search for martyrs for their cause. So, listen, we, in this song, don't like us or find us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.169.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word "Mireia Boya".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.170.0	Well, first of all, a sincere regret ath Grop Parliamentarian of Catalonia Yes you can, ath Signor Nuet, ath Signor Rabell. We've had a considerable effort today, and I think I'm on my way and we're on our way to the Madeish cant; they can't position themselves with matches that they said they said here. You're at the end of democracy, you know, and we want you to fight. That said, you need to be aware that I am limiting you to the fact that you want to hold the referendum and the Madeish that you denounce it even though it is judicial and you still think that it is time to correct it. From then on, we delayed you the 23rd of this referendum, because it was clear to us that he was legitimated, and that he was a people of Catalonia, and that he was bound to be freed not from his constitution, nor was he a Spanish Constitution. From then on, there was freedom of expression of this Parliament not to a limit, because in Parliament and we are representatives of this people, from which we emanate and popular power. That said, Tath Grop of Ciutadans, I think that when I pay attention. Mos seems to be talking about corruption when he was CUP, not his attention. By the way, we didn't talk about the Madeish strike tomorrow. It wasn't fake. It was real. It was because it was the first motion that entered into Parliament's notice that his corruption followed was not. And if they want to consult it was web Lhums and Taquígrafs, which we have published this week, on behalf of Atlas this corruption of the Catalan Countries, they will find four volumes, seven hundred pages, ninety. It was a question that hesqui: did you almost become a popular accusation? Because we and we are all, and you are in the head. A message to the three parties, already fast, is over: binding referendum; he was his last opportunity. They started out as a non-peth campaign, because a referendum continues to link you to say that it will have all consequences. Eth are after the train, that there is no train deth soc of trains what they talk about, ee aguest. Put up for democracy and start for the peth campaign not. And it's lessons of democracy deth PP..., would have bad words if you had to think. Pressing eth judicial system. Sonque will do this: Gürtel case, seven deaths and a coma. And he was his democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.171.0	We're calling it a vote. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. Mr. Rabell, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.172.0	Yes; only a precision for a hint that has just been made. Very short.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.173.0	Okay. Thirty seconds, Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.174.0	No... I am very grateful for Mrs Boya's thanks, but I would just like to make a point: we, as a parliamentary group, do not distribute democrats' and non-democrats' books. [[Greetings.]] And we believe that whoever does not vote what we think is not because you are not on the side of democracy, but because you have a different opinion in the democratic debate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.175.0	Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.176.0	For allusions by Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.177.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.178.0	Yes; I still take advantage of Mr. Rabell's words. The Tinell Pact, Chapter « Criteria on general political action, spoke of the compromise of not establishing agreements of governance with the PP, the compromise of not establishing-there government pacts or parliamentary pacts, nor of facilitating the access of the PP to the Government of Spain, but did not imply either a sanitary cord or an annexation of the PP. [[remorse of the voice]] , with which thing... – no, no, listen... – with which thing, obviously, in the parliamentary process of a very broad set of initiatives could be dialogued and agreed, as in fact was done on many occasions. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.179.0	Let's go vote, then. The vote begins. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] The motion for a resolution on the defence of the freedom of expression and the right of initiative of Members and the Parliament of Catalonia and the compromise to preserve them by means of their governing bodies was approved by 81 votes to 50, with no abstentions. [[The applause continues.]] [[Question to the Government on the competitiveness of the Catalan company]] [[300-00109/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the competitiveness of the Catalan company, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. Joan García. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.180.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Counsellor Baiget, after this very epic moment that we have experienced another day today, we can talk about a topic that may not be so much attention in this chamber, but I think it is, therefore, very important. We don't think we can finish this 2016 without talking about the Catalan fabric. We already know that talking about entrepreneurs and competitiveness may not be the most comfortable these days of assumptions, having their CUP allies watchful, counselor, but I imagine we could do it with some transparency. It is also true that you, from our point of view, have long been adamant of a lack of policies that we consider populist and that ultimately change the priorities of the Government of the Generality, for us, and that today, therefore, as we have seen before, they have also been reflected in this way. He has devoted himself, I think, to turning us away from the reality of an economic activity that you know perfectly well, Mr. Baiget, that there is not much comfort in the scenes of instability to which your government inexorably intends to lead us. The same CEO describes us that, over identity passions, for Catalans the priorities are others: the struggle against the dark, the concern for the economic situation. If we consider these expressed priorities and that they are also a democratic mandate for Catalans, perhaps it is time to be discussing a change in the model of production, the better of the factors that make up the ecosystem where our businesses live, the better of the competitiveness that this supposes and, as well as the disappearance of job insecurity that indicators, such as high left-wingness, reflect every day. Perhaps it would be the inclusive time to talk about this third or fourth industrial revolution that many suppose we are living globally and how to implement the theories of his acquaintance Jeremy Rifkin in Catalonia, but we don't have time, maybe not. But no, I think you... I don't know if you do, but your government does prefer to face the day-to-day face of an impossible future and to waste all the time and money we have to spend on a latent reality. All right, counselor, we, humbly, today we will insist on it one more time and speak from one side of the business world: competitiveness to our peppers. Competitiveness is an essential factor in precisely fighting against the dark; in order to increase competitiveness we need to increase productivity, and in order to do so we need to increase the factors, many of them transversal, that build it. These factors are still more important when we talk about the authentic Catalan business texture: micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, 99_percent of the total. We believe that we need XS measures for XL problems, measures that accompany businesses at any stage of their life cycle. Because companies have, like any other human creation, a vital evolution that, like administration, we should worry about. We talk a lot about entrepreneurship, about the birth of entrepreneurs, but we neglect growth and consolidation, and we also forget about the measures that can be used to prevent it from disappearing. A fact, this last one, of special cruelty. For the last few years, since 2008, thirty thousand enterprises have been lost in Catalonia, a 4.8_percent of the total number of existing enterprises, but still worse: small enterprises have been lost one_of_each_three, counselor. Think about what this means for all those who are behind these companies between two and fifty workers, think about the social consequences and the personal cost for a small businessman who lives in a company that has no defined second-opportunity mechanisms. You think about everything we could've done and we haven't done since the institutions. And now we're thinking about what we want to do, because the diagnosis is done: the peppers know exactly what time we left them behind; in fact, you know, for starters, what time the Administration stopped paying; you know perfectly how many days they've been maring their bill; you know perfectly what day they should have charged; you know perfectly how many interests of delay this delay will entail; you know how many more days they'll be able to endure this and, above all, you know before how many families they'll have to give their face. Associations representing these companies know what is true of their government's reports on payment. So, if one goes to the half-time payment report issued by the Vice-President of Economics and History, we see that they are true myths and that they extend us from what the Law of Morosity and the European directives establish. What's the point? Could you be more clear at the time of writing this report, counselor? Could the late payment of grants given to entities working with the Administration be included? Could you include the actual payment data from the service's performance to the revenue into your current account? And it's that the Administration can do more for our peppers. The current public contract system leaves no room for the peppers, does not give access to small businesses and, therefore, leaves out the bulk of the catal product. We know that it is at the Congress of the Deputies that we must fight a good part of these measures, in fact, we are already doing it; but the Generality cannot disagree. This government can do much more with the tools that it has at its disposal, such as, for example, getting old so that the peppers can access the public contests lottling everything that can be lottified, and adapt these contests so that a small company can take over the guarantees that are required of it. Moreover, they can perform a task that, while we know that they are not used to doing it is absolutely necessary for the peppers, is control over the payment to subcontracts. That is to say, as now we cannot guarantee the access of the peppers to the contract directly as to the auctions, assure those who at least will be able to charge the day they touch them, as to subcontracts. And today there are no mechanisms for effective vertical control of contracts in the long run. It is essential to have all objective information about sub-contracts that work together or together with the principal contractor and the collection dynamics respect the services they are performing. What can your department do about this? We think that with all that remains clear, let me say, is that the relationship between the pepper, from our point of view, and the Administration has no feeling. Nor does it create a romantic relationship, but it does establish as a minimum a link of empathy or as a minimum a link of efficiency, a link that could be enhanced by facilitating the access of micro- and small enterprises to an efficient, rapid, close administration that accompanies and responds to their needs. But when will we have the Law 16/2015, of 21 July, of simplification of the administrative activity? I believe that we are all aware that this deployment has, at least for us, ceased to be a priority of your government and, therefore, ends up affecting the generators of the 72_percent of the occupation in Catalonia and 60_percent of the GDP, of our GDP. Because the list goes on and it's long. Counselor, do you know how many peppers access technology transfer services to implement innovation processes? Do you know the degree of knowledge that peppers have about the services that they offer from Action? Do you know what they think of the few who have had access to the utility of these services? Do you know if the government is coordinated enough to know who the most demanding professional profiles are for the peppers? How long will we have to wait to have a real map, for example, of accessibility to resources as basic as the high-capacity mobile network or optical fiber network? I suppose he's going to try to answer some of these questions now, but before you think I'm really not the one who's going to listen to him, but the little businessman, who doesn't actually ask us very much, just ask us to accompany him without miracles or trying to at least put him through a lot. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.181.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Further, Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Advisor, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.182.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. In the course of your intervention, you have begun your inquiry by saying something that is not certain, that the priority of this government is not economic growth, it is not economic progress and it is not job creation. False. This is the government's top priority and proof of this is also all the process we're doing, because if we don't have all the instruments, if we can't guarantee the future and a future with full competitiveness for our citizens and also for all productive activity, then we can't do it. And that's why we're doing it. Therefore, the main priority. And there is no inaction – there is no inaction. Many, many initiatives have been made. I'll give him a... I don't want to make a list, huh? , telephonic, but yes..., you will see, who are all the initiatives that we are carrying out in this matter and especially also – also – for the small and medium-sized company and for the micro-enterprise, because obviously, and as you said, it is the main company in this country. And, therefore, she is the main destination of all the government's actions in this country. You say: "Economic activity is not comfortable with instability, with the political instability it generates. So, look, by definition entrepreneurs and businesses are immersed in an absolutely unstable market. I don't know what's going to happen. Businesses that they had – that they had – an absolutely controlled market, suddenly and back we have seen how it was changing and uncertainty is always a variable in the business dimension. But it is that, in addition, a week ago, the data from the growth of the gross domestic product of the third quarter came out: an increase of the 3,4_per_cent year-on-year. That's it. And if we look at the sectors, the industrial sector this third quarter grew a 5.4_per_cent. Is that how it affects this unstable claim you're saying about the functioning of the economy? So, look, if we look at sectoral data, industry grows, industry is fine. In tourism, we can present a balance as never before, and not just by the name of tourists, which may not be the xifra or the most relevant data, but with the tickets and what is the part of the entries that have been left here. All sectoral indicators are also moving forward. The retail trade evolution index has grown twenty-five months ago. And the most important indicator for us, and also for you, that is how the occupation in this country evolves. So, look, this is the problem that we still have to solve, move this economic recovery, which is, we have to move it to social recovery, it goes a little bit with..., it got more complicated. And we have to generate occupation, you have said, of quality, well paid and also generating that every time there is a more important number of people working. Forty-one months resulted in the tax..., that the number of year-on-year-olds recorded is lower than the previous year. And the last results of the active population survey have given the good combination because it is redefining the force and creating occupation. And that's what's going on in this country. Therefore, this is the reality. He told us about payments and payment terms. Yesterday, the vice president said at the time to present the draft budget. The name and payment period has been significantly reduced. It's narrowed down. And the data... and as it is counted as the methodology we have to use and we have to learn, it is the methodology that is determined for all public administrations. Therefore, it has been reduced, an effort has been made with many difficulties, that we have them, an effort has been made to reduce the term of payment to companies. And businesses... and if they say so, if you talk to them, as usually businesses recognize that there has been this reduction. He talked about the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to public contracts. It's an important issue, yes. It's a subject that we, like the government... are working on, working on from the General Directorate of Contracts. And what is it that we have to do so that every time there are smaller and medium-sized enterprises that can... and also micro-enterprises that can access this public contract? The first thing: donating information, because two years ago it was not known what was going on with the public contract in this country. We started to make a public contract observer who allowed us, for the first time, to know and quantify what part of the public contract of the Generality and of their companies went to big companies and which part went to small and medium-sized companies. And the fruit of this we can..., we said that the year 2014 was the first year in which, for the first time..., not in name, because in name are always more important small and medium-sized enterprises, only in volume, in volume of contracts and awards, for the first time, small and medium-sized enterprises were the main recipients of public contracts. If we didn't have this source of information, which wasn't there before, we couldn't give these results and we couldn't do one thing that's more important: to take 'consciousness, which is what needs to be done. But they are getting to know how public contracts evolve, so measures have been taken – measures have been taken – and there is an instruction in which it is intended to promote access by small and medium-sized enterprises to public contracts. What? You've already said it, fighting, making a division by lots, making there are lots in public contract here, and making it possible in these lots to present small and medium-sized enterprises as well. According to what we do: reduce guarantees, certain guarantees and certain criteria of experience, that the crisis situation has caused many small and medium-sized enterprises..., some of new creation, because you have talked about those that disappear, it is true, it is a harm, but there are also many that believe and Catalonia is the most dynamic part in creating enterprises in the State. Therefore, even those who believe, who do not have..., because they may have the capacity to access public contracts have reduced criteria both of experience and of guarantees. Because the guarantees, at a time when there were financial difficulties, it's important that it's revived, and that's what happened. And together, less guarantees, more lots, less emphasis on price and more emphasis on the most qualitative aspects: this is an instruction linking the government and all the organs of the General Administration. In addition, there has also been..., a code of good practices has been signed that should be signed by all those entering into a contract and participating in a public contract, in which it is also talked about..., and limit certain actions that can be done with subcontractors. So, all that you're pointing at... the government is already acting on it and already doing it. The deployment of the Law 16/2015, we are deploying it. Aviat – Aviat – all Catalonia will be connected and all the joints will be connected to the single business window. It is happening, that this also supposes a savior in all the actions that the enterprises, especially the small and medium-sized ones, must do, and their relations with the Administration. You say: "Ask small and medium-sized enterprises if they are happy with Action. So, we're asking them, obviously, we're asking them. And the answer is yes, because Action is working because every time there are more opportunities and more businesses that can do what they want to do: export, innovate and work. Miri, I'll start now... – then, in the second part, I'll be there more – but, what do we do? To be competitive we have to go out, we have to internationalize ourselves and we have to innovate. In terms of innovation, between the year 2016 and the year 2020 this government will allocate 102_million euros for innovation, and we will do so through the RIS3CAT communities – that the year 2016 was 24_millions, for the year 2017 we will call 31_millions–, also with the nuclei and also with the innovation coupons. With the Horizon 2020 programme we are on condition... – and we want to capture more than 310_millions–, we have captured 310_millions of euros – we have captured them until half this year. To promote the access of the small and medium-sized company to innovation, and also to research and technology, one of the things we have recently done has been the link agreement between Eurecat and LEITAT. An agreement that will have to foster a major centre of innovation for small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. Then I'll continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.183.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.184.0	Thank you, Counselor. Well, he answered a few things. We don't think there's time to talk to all of them here, and some of the things he said to me, so we agree. The only one that we may not be seeing..., or are not seeing us or the companies we talk to, does not, but it really costs a lot that all these initiatives, some of them, that I will now comment on, come to the small and medium-sized company and micro-enterprises. You have spoken of the main instruments of which we must equip ourselves. So, look, we have..., we are part of a shared sovereignty, and, as such, we went to Congress and yesterday we approved a motion that gives or settles the charge on the ground. We've always talked about energy. I've told him many times that we'd do it: we've done one for me to do it. I believe that this is a clear demonstration of our commitment and a clear way of exercising our sovereignty as Catalans. I imagine that there is no form..., and if I want to say how we can do it..., because it really took our initiative, it did not follow your group or some of the groups that are part of your government. To talk about this subject... therefore, he wanted to close it. He also talked to us about the issue of instability. Well, maybe there are things we don't understand, but the Inquiry into the exporting climate to the Third Quarter Generalitat of 2016 doesn't say the same; it precisely gives a balance that brings us..., a trust balance, that brings us to the second quarter, in data, of 2012. So, I think there's a date here where we can't agree. Also, if we are talking about business trust, the index of business trust harmonised also tells us that in the last quarter of the year it was a given negative, while at the joint meeting of Spain – which in the end is a middle – the given was positive. So, another data that doesn't give us the same feeling. In this case – he spoke before feeling – so this feeling is all-positive. Also, including, if we are talking about data of internationalization, its own government, in fact, at the time of presenting the assumptions has done an analysis of the future of the export to Catalonia for 2017 that takes advantage of the results of this 2016. Therefore, I believe that you are also aware, a little, that there is a certain impact. And I'm not saying so much about their process of instability, they do everything possible because they believe it; fortunately, there are companies that don't know how to believe and still trust in our product fabric, but they do everything possible to do it. Keep talking. He talked about innovation before. Miri, if we talk about innovation, I could donate..., or I think it's important that we talk – one day we'll have to talk – about the balance of exports and imports of high-tech products. It's denied, it's still denied. It got better during the crisis – it didn't get better because we got better, just because they didn't care about this type of events – but it got worse again, and it continues to get worse. And this is a clear innovation that we believe that we, therefore, need to take very much into account. We're just warning them. In the end, the proposals that we will make, that we will bring them to the next Ple, I think that in some points we can coincide; we hope that we will agree, but understand this as a warning. I think someone, from the opposition – and it's our paper – has to warn them. We also believe that the game that you have set aside for the assumptions for research, development and innovation – as much as you think is very important – is not enough. It's a 3.95_per_cent more than 2015, but it's that the 2015 assumption was very far from the 3_per_cent European medium asking us, of medium, which, of gross domestic product, we have to invest in this type of growth, if we want to hear all this. So, counselor, please, you've donated a whole series of data... maybe you've made an over-vision, I say, triumphalist. I think we need to stop thinking more and prioritize more, so all the measures that need to be affected and that affect our product fabric, our business fabric and, especially, small, medium and micro-enterprises. We'll do it, we'll keep doing it. In fact, I think we're the only group that's talked about these businesses and the businesses in the room this whole year. And I hope we can find, at least, certain points– certain points– of coincidence one can work together. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.185.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.186.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, yes, you have put forward an initiative to reduce... no, to cancel the charge on the ground, it's self-consumption. In fact, when we laid down some Catalan strategy, all that is the promotion of the electric vehicle and electric mobility, one of the points was the suppression of the toll and the tax on the self-consumption. And this is one of the areas where we have to work. Because, look, he says: "The concern of Catalan companies and expectations. Before yesterday came out the chamber of commerce to make a press release on which were the prospects with which the entrepreneurs of this country face the year 2017. And one of the determining factors of competitiveness and concern they have, for the future, is precisely the cost of energy. And in the cost of energy, we must have an impact. They also have another concern: that of taxation. And here you have also exercised your ability to decide in Madrid. And they have decided, for example, to increase the import of payments on behalf of the company tax with a decree that they voted in favour of September – not yesterday's, September's – they voted in favour, they voted in favour of validation. I have the results of the votes here, if you'd like to know. Not yesterday's, not this week's, which was abstained – yes –; but that of the other, they voted in favour, and drew more than 8,000_million euros in liquidity from the companies of this country; from the not-large companies. Because with 7_million billing, they are medium-sized businesses, and some small ones, which charge 7_million billing, and now they will save more than five points on their account deductions. And this does not help, precisely, the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, nor the competitiveness of enterprises in this country; because access to finance does not continue to be easy for enterprises. And, as it does not continue to feel easy, if the three liquidities, they will have to resort more to financing. Exports. Exports do..., exports that grow the most – and have increased an 11_per_cent in this..., last year – were exports of high technological content. Therefore, we may have a negative balance, because we still import many areas; but each time we are growing more in high-tech exports. And the evolution of exports – I am not a triumphalist, I say the data –, of generation in September of this year... – the year before was a year remembering –, of generation in September of this year, of the year 2016, continues to grow a 2,1_per_cent, the volume of Catalan exports. And this 2,1_per_cent grows while in Europe the majority of countries in the euro area and the majority of countries in Europe cau, and cau world trade. That means our businesses are making an effort. And that the year that sees the percentage of growth is less than the percentage of growth of this year does not mean that exports fall, means that they will grow a little less. And here they do have work, because – a given I will donate it – there are 40,000 Catalan companies that export; but, of these 40,000, there are 16,400 that they do it regularly. Therefore, the difference between these 40,000 to reach 16,400 is what we have to deal with because each time there are more companies than those that are occasional exporters that are transformed into regular exporters. And that's what we're doing. You said Action. Miri, we've gone to Action and we've done 23,000 businesses. Not all these companies are big companies. Most of the companies that have done and acted and that have helped themselves from Action are small and medium-sized enterprises. And, in addition, we are continuing to work so that there is this possibility, that they are every time more small and medium-sized enterprises, through the innovation coupons and the internationalization coupons, that they can export and that they can innovate. And we'll do it, and we've changed the tech network, and we've brought it back, because every time we can access smaller and medium-sized businesses, and it's easier to access these businesses to innovation, too. And with financial support... we're giving it away. We have created a line of 25_million euros to advance to give support and to donate..., to get involved in projects that start but can be consolidated. And this will be the line of work that the Government of Catalonia will continue to do in order, precisely, to promote the competitiveness and business dynamism of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.187.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about public remuneration]] [[300-00110/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on public remuneration presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.188.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I want to start this inquiry trying to make an X-ray of which is the current situation of public workers in Catalonia. While the Government of the Generality repeats, among others, the undefined staff or does nothing to deal with the possible consequences of the European Courts' judgments on the equipping between the rights of the internal and the functional; or do not schedule the payments they give to the workers– of 2013 and 2014–, you who, among others, are increasing the number of internals by 14_per_cent– all with your data, eh? –; increase staff in a temporary situation; increase senior staff by 11_per_cent; directories by 13_per_cent; increase eventual staff – which, as you know, are those advisors appointed to the senior staff– by 14_per_cent. Therefore, while you were pre-charging the template of public servers and not recovering the rights they lost in an emergency situation – that was true, that there was this emergency situation, but that now even you recognize that it no longer exists –, what you are doing is inflating the political trust. While the officials of the Generality have lost 20_percent of their purchasing capacity or have lost their productivity complement or their contributions to pension plans, what the Government does is to create more structures for the process in which to sweeten their shields of the cause. That is to say, more precarious versus more endollism, more temporality versus more process-livers. [[Greetings.]] The government, in its moment, was in a very hurry to retaliate, but very little..., is in a hurry to recover the rights that have disappeared and that do not have the workers. And I'll give you some examples. Mirin, the structures of the different departments of the Generalitat are based on a pyramidal structure, which begins for the President of the Generalitat, continues for the councillors, the secretaries general, directors general, subdirectors, service heads, section heads and you will function base. And they have a payoff that matches their responsibilities. All right, that's it. It's true that we could go into debate whether they are, the remuneration, correct or not. But, well, that's all right. But then, in each of these departments that exist in the Generality there are a series of entities, there are a series of societies, consortia, foundations, which have their own structure and depend on some of these departments. And what a surprise that many of the higher ranks of these entities, of these foundations, of these societies, their subs are higher than those of their superiors. And I'll give them some examples, there's a lot of them, but I'll give them some. Mirin, the general manager of the Railways of the Generality has a sum equivalent to that of the president of the Generality, with 136,000 euros. But not enough with this, the president of the same entity has a sum of EUR 128,000. It's to say that these charges cover more than their superiors, that they are the advisors or the secretaries-general. But we can follow with many more examples: the director of the Incasòl has a sum of 115,000_euros; the director of the ACA, of 140,000_euros; the director of the Consorci Sanitari de Terrassa, of 109,000_euros; the director of the Agency of Residus de Catalunya, of 110,000_euros; and the manager of the Consorci Sanitari de Terrassa, of 109,000_euros; the manager of the Consorci Port de Mataró, who charges 132,000_euros, but more than complements his sum as manager of the Consorci Portbou with 37,000_euros. In case he was just as soon as he got to the end of the month, so he gave him a paycheck, didn't he? [[Greetings.]] And so we could end all our interrogation time. Do you really think, counsel, that the assumptions that you have presented to us are acceptable, with everything that we give you? And what happens when all this happens? So the public servers don't recover the rights that you took from them. I wonder if this will be your policy in the future. Well, in any case, in the future whenever they continue to rule. Why do you think putting Mr. Agustí Colomines at the head of the School of Public Administration of Catalonia, who is to form all the officers of the Administration, is entirely neutral? What I don't know is what they will do with all these bodies and with all these entities created in the service of the process, that in the Catalans, more than 300,000_euros, only – only – with the authorities, such as Mr. Viver Pi-Sunyer, of the Institute of Studies of Self-Government, Mr. Victor Cullell, Secretary for Self-Government Development, or Mr. Josep Maria Reniu, of the Office for the Millor of Self-Government Institutions. Madam Counselor, after all these examples and many more than I could pose them, what I ask of you is that you come to this cliff and apologize to the people of Catalonia on behalf of the Government for the deception they make day to day to our society. It's clear who's stealing from us isn't Spain. It is the Catalan establishment that takes advantage of the public resources of Catalonia, with the consent of its Government and also of its members of the CUP. As you can see, Members and Members, very appropriate social policies. "The most social assumptions of history, say, do they? So it's a bad thing they were the most social assumptions. And after this parenthesis, let's go back to the public workers. And I'd like to ask you a series of questions, Counselor. Could you answer me when they are willing to negotiate – not to inform – with the unions to schedule the return of the 2013 and 2014 pay? Can you answer me, ma'am, what will you do to get back the two hours of the teacher's lectual schedule that is more than fifty-five years old? Can you tell me when they'll make an offer of public employment that starts the recovery of seedlings? Can you explain to me, Counselor, what is the strategy they will follow to recover the functional seats we had before the retail of 2012? What will they do to reduce the storm? What's wrong with the Social Welfare Fund? In short, advise, stop feeding your trips to Ithaca and start working for public servants, who have actually made a personal effort during all these years of retailing; work to recover your economic rights and your social rights in accounts to create empty state structures but full of endollisms; prioritize resources to make our Public Administration an example of management and not an example of malaise, and leave your victimism parked and assume the responsibilities that surround them as government. Change the direction of your model and seek to reduce the grate to try to increase the muscle. And if there are no solutions to all the commitments they have made, let go of our parliamentary group, which is willing to work for the Catalans, and not just for a few. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.189.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Next, has the word Ms. Meritxell Borràs, Governance Advisor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.190.0	Thank you, Madam President. Your honourable Member, thank you first of all for your inquiry. It has obviously been correct; I understand that it cannot be otherwise. But the information you have given is certainly not. In many cases, contradictions in themselves, and in more ways I will try to explain it - he has asked many questions - and put it in advance. You know that we already had, if I don't remember it barely fifteen days ago, the appearance of the Public Service secretary and the Director General, in which they already explained some of the concepts that you ask for today. But I'll entertain you, won't I? Because I see he didn't make it clear, or maybe he doesn't want me to make it clear. From the outset, tell him that the data he has given is certainly not, and as long as he does the effort..., and I invite him to look at the public data..., that they are public, more so, and they are in the data bank. And so, in this sense, it will become clear that what you said here today is not true. First place... see, let's go to pams. Listen to me, you were asking me for the return of everything that is the rights of public workers. You'll explain it to him here, won't you? And he explained it in a long way; I won't, I will. But you know that yes, that the 2012 payments were eliminated; that a good return of the 2012 pay has already been made last year and this one; that it remains pending and is awake with the unions the remainder of this 2012 pay; that it has recovered, for a band, the days for personal subjects, as well as the days of vacation for old. That's one issue where there's an agreement, too, and so, in this sense, it comes back, isn't it? Or, for example, you ask me: "Listen to me, why so many interims? So, listen to me, you know that for years we haven't been able to make offers from public workers, and, therefore, the way to guarantee the services was precisely through the interns. Logically, therefore, yes, we have made a reinforcement through inters, because we do not want public service, precisely, to have difficulties. And that's why we didn't make an increase, as you said, and that's right, that's the issue. So, listen, here's back to what the conditions of public workers are, back to what many have already done, from other business, like what you quoted: the 2013 and 2014 pay. This is a topic we have on the table, which we negotiate with the unions, logically. And, therefore..., today also tell him that there is no agreement – there is no agreement – and, therefore, it is an area of difficulty..., because, logically, here he has resorted to it to do so. But you mentioned other issues, didn't you? He's been rooting for us, and, frankly, either there's little knowledge about him or maybe he's been using it in excess of demagoguery. Because, you see, listen to me, I was quoting some of the people who work in what is the public domain, but not strictly in the Administration, but in the public sector, and you were quoting me, for a band, from the person in charge..., now I don't remember who I was quoting, but you said it. So I don't have to go back there. But we could talk about the same thing if we talked about the case of the Spanish Administration, right? If you speak of Espanya, it will be established that the President of Adif charges more than EUR 164,000, or that the President of Renfe charges more than EUR 158,000, or that the Director of the Currency and Stamp Factory charges more than EUR 146,000, or that the President of the National Securities Commission charges more than EUR 159,000, or that the President of SEPI charges more than EUR 217,000. Well, what you find to be all wrong, which is that I am superior to what the President and the Councillors are, seems to be good for you in Spain. Home! It would be appropriate for you to have the same criteria. I can take both of them, huh? , to say: "Listen to me, this is not good for Catalonia, but then it is not good for Spain. You, who care so much about Spain, look to save him now that you have my hand. And tell them – say them – that in this sense they know that there is perfectly the compromise that we charge that they enter into this whole area of the public sector..., in any case they may be, the soul, superior to that of a counselor, that this is so in all and every one of the charges that from the time that the legislation was approved..., they must enter this barem and that, therefore, in this sense, the head of the new appointments has been superior..., at the very heart of a counselor. So, listen'm, man! I'll go over something I tell you and you'll see that things are what they're like, won't you? For another band, listen to me, I'd recommend it... I understand that you're absolutely anti-procedural, and that's why you're here. But, look, if they want us to call him, let's call him, huh? You say to us: "Listen to me, you have increased an 11_per_cent– if I'm not mistaken, it seems to me that it's the xifra that has given –" the trust, and all for the subject of the process. Listen, do you know that this government had reduced to a minimum what exactly the trust and who exactly are the cleanest and most trusted people, which, logically, must be, that any government is there? We're not demagogic in this matter. Therefore, an increment of an 11_per_cent at a time when the download had been above 50_per_cent, at a time when we have a process ahead..., yes, that you do not believe, but this government, yes, you know? This government believes the process it has between hands, and therefore, logically, we have to answer and we require the people needed to last it to term. Therefore, this increment of '11_per_cent believes that it is not to any extent excessive for what we have in front. Therefore, listen to me, we have said, and we will say again, that we will make an offer of public office of seven thousand public workers, which is the maximum that the Spanish Government allows us, but that we will not give up on them, and therefore, in this sense, there is a clear bet for which it is the public worker. And to also illustrate it – let me tell you what you're doing, right? – you were talking to us about the School of Public Administration, the School of Public Administration which, as you know, is more than a hundred years old, was created in 1912 by Enric Prat de la Riba, and this is a school that does a lot of good work today, yes, through its director, and a school that I hope will soon be able to bring here a bill of law that will represent a transformation of this, and that will therefore be a symptom in this sense to continue working for the public servants. Therefore, listen to me, as you know, the one that was hard to finish the year 2012, of reducing, for a band, the rights of public workers, some, as you have mentioned, of the sou, of others, as I have said, of the days, elements that have already been recovered, because you know that the fourteen pay has already been recovered the year 2015, which, moreover, the theme of the days, therefore, has been recovered now, and the 2012 pay has already been recovered, on a good part also, this 2015 and 16, and it will be, and we have scheduled for 2017 and 2018. But, believe me, when the government of that moment – I did not form part of it, but I did see it, logically, of course – it took those decisions, it was neither by taste nor by will, but by some very difficult conditions in the case of the own finances, but also in that which forced us by the Spanish government. It was mandatory, and I say so in this sense, because you know perfectly well that the limit of deficit that Europe posed was not precisely distributed and, therefore, the major burden was precisely for the assemblies and for the autonomous communities, and therefore for Catalonia, and this was, therefore, enormous difficulties in being able to deal with it, in that Administration, the Government of Catalonia, which is precisely who we could say has the major actions in social matters. I hope you do, don't you? He'll answer me and I'll be able to answer the rest of the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.191.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Borràs. The word has Mr. David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.192.0	Thank you, Counselor. I don't have any kind of problem that you illustrate to me, but what I would ask of you is that you give me concrete data, because you tell me that my data is false, when I'm bringing them from the portal of transparency and their own government pages. Therefore, what I would ask is that, in any case, if my data are false, then explain to me which data are not correct so that I can assess them and look at them through their governance page. On the issue of trade union agreements, you say they have reached an agreement for the 2012 pay, that's right, but I was asking for the 2013 and 2014 pay agreements. You say they're trading. Well, I don't know if they're negotiating or simply informing or discouraging about what they're doing, because it seems to us that there's no specific type of proposal. So, what's the government's proposal? What is the timing proposal they have to pay the debt they have to pay for 2013 and 2014? That's the specific question I'm asking you, Counselor. That you're talking about demagogic, man, you, after the show you've been doing today and the days before, so, man, it's, if not, surprising, isn't it? [[Some applause.]] Then you told me about the director of Adif, Madam Counselor, you told me about the director of Adif. So, look, you're right, you're right, and you know what? That we will achieve the necessary reforms at the Congress of Deputies. And what we've claimed and what we're going to claim is that there's a sub-table for all these different entities and agencies. Therefore, we are claiming it and we will claim it from the Government of Spain, and in the same way we want to claim it from you that you make this sub-table to actually establish what is the payload that each of the trust or other levels must have. You told me about the subject of trust, and you said something that surprised me very much, and I would like you to stay clear here and that's how it's moved. You have acknowledged that this increase of the higher ranks is the consequence of the process, you have said it here. Is the increase of the higher charges the consequence of the process? So, miri, do we know what we prefer? We prefer to increase the workers' rights and not the trust, ma'am. And then I'd ask for a self-criticism, too, wouldn't I? Because you're tired of the fact that you always blame Madrid and it's like Madrid. No, look, you're doing a lot of bad things, and you're not doing things right. And so, what we're claiming is that there's a bit of self-criticism and that there's no need for victimism. And then, then, I'd really like to have you answer me to a series of questions, that they're the ones I've done and that I guess you haven't given him time or that you're now passing the documents because I can answer them, that you do. Many thanks, Counselor, deputies and deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.193.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.194.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I'll start with the beginning, won't I? You said to me, "Listen to me, I would appreciate it if you told me that these data are not the right ones, so we're so easy and so, so, it's already, isn't it? I agree. But do you know what's going on? And I'm telling you with all the good stuff, we could say, Congressman. I, to the last questions I had on behalf of Ciutadans, wanted to clarify a little the subject on which he was going, because then the answer can give better results, right? Because your question is what you say in concrete terms is public remuneration. Of course, I, listen to me, have looked at the whole area of public pay; but the area of whether they increase or lower the interest, whether they push or lower..., this is another area. No, you don't look surprised. Listen to me, you ask me about public pay; listen to me, ask me what I want about public pay, which I win, not very prepared, more. So, in this sense, what you need. Now, if you ask me about an environment in which the motive of your inquiry is not, therefore, concrete, listen to me, I'm telling you, it's down with the web; it can be done perfectly. But I'm already getting ahead of him, so he told me on behalf of the correspondents that they're not the data you gave. So I know it's hard not to answer it, but I'll appreciate it, so another day we can just – not as long as I'm asked – just say what fears they'll make the questions, because then, logically, we can answer; if not, no. Regarding the 2012 pay, as I said, she's back in good measure. The rest, therefore, is scheduled. Yes, they did, say, "I'm not going to say one thing for another," six working group meetings precisely to work on what the return of payments 2013 and 2014 is, and that's right, that's not what I'm going to say one thing for another, it's true that today there's no agreement and, therefore, in this sense we're struggling to move forward in this matter. But, look, Mr. Congressman, you said something that I found very hard: you said we liked the show, didn't you? I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, listen'm, little joke. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Little joke. Do you know what's going on – do you know what's going on? You have a lot of respect for Spanish justice, don't you? , or you're laughing at me and the rest of the counselors. [[Greetings.]] Or you're laughing at me and the rest of the counselors. Why do you know what's going on? I today rejected the fourth notification – the fourth notification. He's very grateful to you and very fond of you, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, and it represents that we have succeeded. So, no, listen to me, we haven't sorted this out. I have this fourth notification today. They sort of came here, not us. Listen to me, they could come perfectly to our place; they have tried to come here and not to us. And yes, why don't we just have four notifications? Why do I have to store only four notifications? You're excited, I know – I know. But, listen to me, this is a topic that is not strictly what we have to talk about today. You're the one who wants me, from this background, to put it in the dimension of the show when, for our part, believe me the utmost discretion. They're other people who... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, for our part, the utmost discretion. It was chosen to come to this chamber on a day like today, when it was precisely about the sphere of democracy, it was about the need to be able to speak freely in this Parliament and, therefore, it was not our thing that today, precisely today, we are coming to bring this notification. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.195.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Borràs. Thank you all very much. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.196.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Asking the Government about public transport and sustainable mobility]] [[300-00113/11]] The next point in the order of the day is: it asked the Government about public transport to Catalonia and sustainable mobility, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.197.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, with great rigour, because Mrs. Gabriela Serra says she is very attentive, and therefore, let's say, we try to be very strict in all the statements we make, look, we carry this issue, we ask about public transport and sustainable mobility because it seems to us that it is a necessary issue and it is a topic... I don't know, they are resorting, but it is a matter of concern and it is an issue that we need to go forward, that we have made passes, and therefore we also have an interest in knowing the government's understanding of some of these issues. But I can't, before going into the situation of public transport and the issue of sustainable mobility, deal with some questions about infrastructure, which also affect us as a country, pull out of the information that last week came out, not by name, but already updated..., the news that the State had to do with Madrid's radial motorways, at a cost of about 5,500_million euros. There were these millions of euros that Minister Pastor said wouldn't cost the Spaniards a hard time; surely not the Spaniards, but the Catalans sure they would cost us a lot of money. This is the typical reversal, the model, let's say, which has been used by the Spanish Administration in many other topics, and, therefore, it is a recurring theme: we have seen it on various occasions, no longer only in the area of motorway infrastructure, but also in other areas, as we will later comment. But in any case, we wanted to take advantage of this forum to denounce the fraud – because it has no other name – of the Madrid radio motorways; some motorways designed in an area where there were already lives of access to the capital of Spain free of charge and where, therefore, it was in the opposite direction that these motorways could end up having some type of benefit, as has been shown. And it's obvious that no one was going through these lives, and, finally, they had to be rescued. And it's worth some analysis, too, of how it goes at the cost... and the fact that these companies ended up failing. It is inversely true that some of the expropriations initially planned for a value of some 380_million euros ended up costing 2,250_million euros. Therefore, someone did the business, and someone did the business at the expense of all the citizens. And, as always, someone, then, in their moment, tried to apply this to the coast, let's say, of the Catalan motorways. Now, in these moments, the State says that this will not cost these moneys, that there is a reduction; but, ultimately, we want to put in place that these moneys that will cost this recovery or this rescue from these highways we will end up paying, at first, surely the Catalans. And, with that, I link up with the situation we have in the infrastructure in Catalonia. Also Minister Pastor – who we have already been able to prove, let us say, that her truthfulness in public statements is not very credible – announced to us, a few months ago, that there would be no extension of the concessions of the AP-7 and AP-2 motorways, dependent on the Government of the State. We do not believe that this is the line that has been completed; in any case, the Government of the State has not demonstrated this on previous occasions. And, therefore, it seems to us that what it is to do is to free the traffic, to free these motorways, to constitute what on some other occasion..., and you have occasion to express yourself also for what it does to the Eurovinyeta, and, therefore, to get a territory where there is a cost, because mobility has a cost, and, therefore, it has to be paid, but in any case, it is not at the expense of all the users we use the way. And, therefore, to have tolls anywhere, but in any case, it is to harmonize and to help regulate the traffic. We see, therefore, that this facility to invest in Madrid and that there has not been in Catalonia has caused us problems at the N-340, at the N-240 also, where the left-hand side is high, where it approaches and where it is claimed, in band, let's say..., because the release of the tolls allows the transport of these lives to the highway, and, therefore, to free these more paths for the internal transit. Recently the Government of the State has also refused to finish an infrastructure that is necessary for us, that is the connection of the A-2 with the AP-7, a necessary nude, a nude of communications necessary to make possible also..., to gain this mobility, that allows us to connect these important lives, and, therefore, not to avoid, another time more..., the State leaves without any reversal in this field, just as it is passing also to the National II, where the promises repeated, also, to finish a work that we have never seen finished, that has not finished, that is said..., that there are many promises, but at the end they are not finished. And, finally, an environment that you know well, which is the finalization of the B-40, its tram between Abrera and Viladecavalls. It's a place where they've left a road to go, and there's no sense in it. And we will not discuss the need or the non-necessity of its totality, but in any case it is clear that the government of the State should also be asked to do so. The only movements of land, the only movements of machines that have been made in these areas have been when elections are held. Then yes, the minister or the minister will come back and explain to us that they will finish that work, but finally, at the end of a few days, it ends without happening. And, therefore, they see this development in the field of infrastructure, which also affects sustainable mobility, we straighten out, we try to straighten out..., and we also want to denounce the lack of reversal of the Government of the State to the railway network, in contrast to what it has done with the expense, with the desirousness that there has been in the field of high speed. In the context of high speed, the Government of the State has marked a plan to communicate all provincial capitals, a plan of €40,000_million, a plan that has proved itself on many occasions that it has no type of profitability, social or economic, and that, in any case, what has caused it is the river and, let us say, the indignation of many of the citizens. And, yes, some, like the other time, insist, with the same model, have ended up rich at the cost of making some investments that do not correspond or balls, as in the case of the Guadalajara-Yebes station, building a station to two kilometers of Guadalajara..., that does not take anyone, they say, because they are easier to go on private vehicle than on train. Someone who has made himself rich at the expense, let us say, of requalifying some land, more concretely, the husband of Mrs Esperanza Aguirre, expressed by the Community of Madrid, who, therefore, has obtained some substantial benefits. In any case, what has been seen with the AVE..., it is obvious that it cannot be that Spain is the second country, after the Xina, in kilometers of AVE. It doesn't have any kind of logic. We see, for example, to provide some data, that in the case, let's say, of France, or in the case of Japan, for example, there are 150,000 users per kilometre of AVE, and in the case of the Spanish State there are 11,000. Therefore, the differential is clear, and this has ended up with a deficiency that has also led to the closure of some of these lines for being of very low profitability and negative profitability. And, finally, we also woke up, about fifteen days ago, with the great play of the Pertu tunnel. It is another operation « Florentino model, because, incidentally, in many of these operations Florentino Pérez and the companies linked to the IBEX Madrid, where we will also have to make about 557_million euros, which is the deficit that the joint venture has at these times, also by incapacity. In any case, this: I insist, very easy to find resources to spend on questions, let's say, that after they do not have any type of profitability, and then we find, in the case of Catalonia, that the plans promoted for the Government of the State..., to put an example, the Pla de roulaires Barcelona 2008-2015, which had to be allocated a quantity, a reversal of 4,000_million euros, was simply a 10_per_cent reversal. And then it's scandalous..., the urgent plan, and we put the emphasis on the urgent word: it had to be a plan that had to be carried out urgently in order to finish, let's say, solving those most remarkable and urgent deficiencies, which had to be carried out in a couple of years, and only 4 % of this urgent investment had been executed, to which 306 million euros had been allocated. In any case, this is the model, a model to discourage public transport, a model that has not tended to generate investments in public transport closer to the citizen. And this – and then, in the second part of my intervention, I will mention it – also affects what is the financing itself of public transport, but we wanted to set an example that there was no willingness on the part of the Government of the State to make these investments in public transport, and that ends up having an impact, obviously, on mobility. These scandals, these moneys that should have been destined to model, to work for an efficient public transport network – are already railways, are already road, in some cases, depending on which ones are needed–..., it has not been possible, given this lack of will of the Government of the State. And then, if I may, also express, for example, illogical things, such as the second and third cities of the Spanish State in number of inhabitants, València and Barcelona, are not connected with a high-speed train; in change, it does happen in the case of Madrid. And, therefore, they favor a deal that they don't... try not to pass through Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.198.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.199.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs..., MP Bloods, thanks for formulating this inquiry, in which, to hear us, you, from the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, try to counterpose two elements, which are a paradox in themselves. Fixin-s 'hi: last week there was an agreement between the Generalitat of Catalonia, the Barcelona Assembly and the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona to make a new bet of social and environmental nature around the tariffs of public transport. And all three administrations agreed to continue freezing public transport tariffs, to make a very important effort in this regard, and, in other words, to reinforce some of the titles that have this social nature. We're talking about the new T-16; we've been through the T-12, the past year, which guarantees gratuitousness for users younger than 15 years, and now we're going through until the seventeen years. It's very powerful, what we're doing from Catalonia, huh? , with an integrated title, and it is a very clear bet for a sustainable mobility system. Let's do the T-16, which means we cover the entire compulsory schooling stage, and, for another band, we also improve and reinforce the T-Turn, and give the highest level of facilities. Therefore, there is the freezing; there is, for another band, the impulse of these two titles, which we have just completed, and the appearance of a new transport title, which is the environmental T-Episode, to deal with situations of high levels of atmospheric contamination. This is a very important effort. Who at these times is turning this effort on public investment are, basically, the Catalan institutions. And here we have found that there has been a flagrant disinvestment of the Spanish State over the last eight, nine years. The data is very strong, and it's some data that we think is worth sharing in this hemisphere. Mirin, the year 2008, in the public transport system of the region of Barcelona, in the sense wide, to the thirteen comarques, to hear us – that means that we arrive until Osona, we arrive at Bages, we arrive at Anoia, we arrive at Ripollès –, we passed, the year 2008, from an investor effort of the Generalitat de Catalunya for current expenditure, to face the malfunction of public transport, from 255_million euros, to 350_million euros this year 2016. The Barcelona City Council increased from EUR 89_million in 2008 to EUR 128_million in 2016; the Barcelona Metropolitan Area from EUR 71_million in 2008 to EUR 108_million in 16. And where is the paradoxical situation produced, and what is the basis of the complaint that we have made? It is: the reduction of contributions, who starred it? Basically, the General Administration of the State: we move from 173_millions in 2008 to 98_millions in 2016. This is the situation. Therefore, the Generality, the Barcelona Assembly and the Metropolitan Area make an extraordinary effort to bring a clear message to the citizens of public transport as an instrument of social nature and a very clear environmental stake. We have a disinvestment on the part of the State, but, for another band, the same week – fixed-is-here – that we arrived at this agreement and asked the Spanish State to recover the investor rhythm, the same week, the same day, we know of the decision on the part of the Government of the Spanish State to rescue the radial highways of Madrid. Fixin-s 'hi, we asked, here, in the transport system of the region of Barcelona, of entry, a contribution more than 10_million euros per part of the General Administration of the State. It is to say: "Escorti, let's use a common criteria between Madrid and Barcelona: Madrid is financed, the autonomous community, all of it by the State; but, in change, in the case of Barcelona, only seven of the thirteen regions are financed. What we say is: "No, no. Listen, we have an integrated system. We have made an effort, together, that has remained independent of who ruled Catalonia, a sustained effort. I make up for that effort. Therefore, we use the same funding criteria and return to this line. Because..., fix it there, what a paradox: when the Spanish State signs and commits to COP22 against climate change, it takes on a whole series of commitments; but, for another band, at the time of financing public transport, it inhibits itself. And this is the paradox: while the public transport of the region of Barcelona was full, very full, and every month beats historical records of use, the empty highways of Madrid are rescued. This is the paradox, and this is the contradiction. And, therefore, what is the basis of public policies that are driven by the Government of the State, which are the priorities that are placed on the table; this is the contradiction. Because the good news, though, is that the public transport system in the Barcelona area – I also want to thank the Secretary of Mobility and Infrastructure of the Government who attends this debate – continues to push, and continues to push in a very substantial way. We have increased the number of public transport users by 1.8_per_cent compared to the same period of the previous year. We're back to beat, again, the historical record of public transport usage in this vast region of Barcelona, and also in the country's conjunct, in the conjunct of Catalonia, huh? , with the other authorities of metropolity transport. This is the situation. But to maintain this, what we need is – what Mr. Bloods gave – better infrastructure, making a strategic bet that we want to prioritize. Why, in this increase in the use of public transport, what are the modes that grow? Grows the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport bus, a 4.8_per_cent; grows the tram, a 5.7_per_cent; grows the buses of the Metropolitan Area, a 4.6_per_cent; grows Railways of the Generality, a 2.6_per_cent. We have a problem with the subway, with the waves, which have been reflected in this process, but if we disregard the waves, the subway continues to grow. What's the big deal? Who doesn't grow up with the intensity I'm supposed to grow up? Renfe, the roller system. That's the problem. But let me say, for a band, this disinvestment in public transport, financing, lack of exploitation of public transport, ordinary financing of public transport, disinvestment by the State, and we go to this rescue site of the radio motorways in Madrid. And now we're still generous, let's say: they say that, like a lot, it's going to cost 5,500_million euros – like a lot, that's to say, we're talking about a smaller amount, irrelevant and insubstantial – and, like very little, it's going to cost 2,000_million dollars. Let us remain generous; let us look at what can be done with 2,000_million euros, from a point of view of public transport financing, and let us focus on public rail transport, which seems to me to generate an extensive level of consensus here. Miri, the unfolding of the R3, that it is ignominious that the year 2016 still there is a line of rollers of a metropolis that is one way– the R3, that goes to Vic and to Ripoll –..., unfold it until Vic, 600_million euros. The Arenys-Blanes unfolding of the R1, 400_million euros. The basements of Montcada, Sant Feliu and the Hospitallet, which continue to feel very strong and intense claims, 600_million euros. And that plane to which you refer, of better reliability of the system, that were these 304_million euros, more actions in the time limits of speed, 400_million euros. With 2,000_million euros – these 2,000_million euros that will be allocated, with the resources of all, to rescue empty motorways – we could make a spectacular leap, from the point of view of the competitiveness of our public transport system. Let us give us another data: what is pending from the third additional provision of the Statute, incomplete in a flagrant way? : EUR 5,748_million. Rescue the motorways in Madrid, in the pitjor scene, would mean to compensate or complete a compromise that was acquired at the time. This is the dilemma, and we, not the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Yes, not the Government of the Government of Catalonia, but the assembly of parliamentary groups of this Parliament, we have to decide which way we bet on. We have no doubt: we are betting on public and sustainable transport. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.200.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.201.0	Thank you, President. Anyway, Mr. Rull, I'm glad to hear that the government is working on this line; it's a line that we understand is the wrong line. We understand, as you also pointed out, that it is not only about a stake of the present government, but it must be a stake of this chamber and of the country in general. We understand that the lack of investment in infrastructure is one of the issues that surely generates more consensus in this country, because they are obvious, because there is a daily impact on the daily lives of all citizens, already going to work, already going to study. I mean, in any case, there are other effects that we also worry about, that you pointed them out. It is to say, there are some effects, first of all, on the mobility of transit, because it is obvious that the best in the investment in public transport, the best of these titles..., also to encourage, to engage more people in public transport is already a better, for itself, in the field of mobility, but it has clear effects, then, very direct, and they have been proven: one, on the media-environmental policies, and therefore, let us say, of reducing the pollution indexes, especially around and around Barcelona, but after another derivative still more important: these media-environmental effects, the affection on health and negativity, which is supposed to be about... this person, we say, the health of the person who lives on this. So we can't afford... we're not playing. We are not asking, if I may say so, for investments to have luxury investments, but we need these investments to have some investments, to have some infrastructure, to have a normal public transport service, to the height of any other country. Nor is it a matter, I insist, of having luxury items. And we understand that this process of transformation that we are making through the implementation of T-Mobility and expansion, as you explained to us, of the T-Mobility system in the country, must also allow for a better social environment; it must allow any person, who lives in the country, to have the same conditions to be able to travel, until today's mobility, as we have it, and in a country, let us say, that we are used to making a lot of moves from the places of residence to the places of leave and to the places of work..., there is an ample mobility, and this mobility we understand that, as the government, as the country, we have to have guaranteed. The government has done so, the rest of public administrations – the Barcelona City Council and the Metropolitan Area – have done so too. It seems to us that what can be claimed is that the Government of the State, while we are still there, must also make a bet..., no longer only in the infrastructures, which we have demanded, but that – and we will put it in the proper motion to present, following this inquiry – we also claim that the Government of the State is involved in this financing. As you pointed out, there are no more borders, from this point of view. We have gone a long way in the field, let's say, of what the tariff crowns are in this country, and, therefore, it seems to us that we have to make the definite leap, which is to allow a regulation that allows us to travel from end to end of the country..., regardless of the mode of transport, which allows us to do it in certain conditions, let's say, economically appropriate for each of the citizens. And, in addition, we think that the model of the T-Mobility that allows us..., the new technology that we need to allow – and, in this line, we know that there is work, the Government – is to apply almost individualized rates to each person, to each of the travellers, depending on what their situation is. This must allow us to regulate and to allow us to work on very appropriate rates for each person in an individualized way, but also in the social context that affects us at every moment. And, therefore, it seems to us that it is important that we can make this extension – we know that the government is working on it – because it must allow us to enjoy everyone from a right to mobility; a right, I insist, that the new republic must guarantee, that we have not yet guaranteed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.202.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bloods. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.203.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman, I think it's very important to have clear who the concepts are. Remember, the poet, the Espriu? He said, "We have lived to save your words, to return to you the names of every thing, and then he continued, "because you follow the straight path of access to the full realm of the earth. We need to save the words, and we need to see who the concepts are. What words do we have to save? Words of priority. That is to say, we, as the collectivity, at the level of Catalonia, of the Spanish State, of Europe, cannot make a commitment to fight the climate change and, at the same time, do not bet strongly on sustainable mobility around public transport. It's incompatible. And, therefore, "saving words, from this perspective, means this: it means to make clear which are the priorities. And because public transport is still competitive, what it needs is a lot of investment in its ordinary operation – what we did last week with the three administrations – but also a lot of public investment. And that's what we have to be able to decide. « Saving words means, around this concept– and President Puigdemont was talking about it this morning, in answers to a question from the CUP, from the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent, from the MP Saladié -, around concessions, public-private partnership. I mean, what's the problem with concessions? What– we see in the case of the radials of Madrid – we are not talking about concessions. « Concessions is when there is a transfer of risk and chance, and here there is no transfer of risk and chance or anything: here there is a win-win always of the same. It's what we have with Castor, that's what we have on radios in Madrid, and that's what can end up with TP Ferro. That's the point. And, therefore, there must be a transfer of risk and chance, because, if not, there is no concessional system; there is another thing, there is a different financing mechanism. But the concession, which is good, is good if there is this risk and chance assumption. And that's what's perverted, and it's perverted in a very clear, very blunt way. And if we want to be an advanced country and a modern country, we have to see who the standards of the game are: in relation to public transport, in relation to the priority in investment in infrastructure, who are the priorities, respect others? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, To me, as an advisor to Territories and Sustainability, in the environment, the fact that it incorporates itself as social expenditure, as social investment, investment in public transport..., this is the key of a country that is a modern and advanced country. And we're trying our best here, this is the key. And when we do infrastructure, for example, in the field of road transport, we aim to prioritize those... the segregated wagons, the bus-wao wagons. This is the key. And this is the idea that we want to transfer to the government of the Spanish State. And that's why we're going to make one of the most powerful smart mobility projects that they're going to make in Europe around T-Mobility. For another band, now we're in the dial operation, huh? , and the Minister of Development will come to us, that some of the things that he is saying – will say – are interesting, and the first week, probably, of this month of generation we will have the opportunity to see us, and to see 'nsaquí, in Catalonia, in Barcelona. And this is also an interesting gesture. But what does he put us on the table or tell us he'll put us on the table? He tells us they're going to put up a whole set of rollers again, and we say no. And the Ciutadans Group and the PP Group... : « The Government of the Government of Catalonia refuses to speak, to be able to dialogue around a new round of rounds. It's just that we don't need a new roll plan; we already have all of them, the roll plans. What is needed is to complete the commitments that have been made in advance. He says, "No, it will be you who will prioritize spending and investments. But that's what we've already said, we've said it a thousand times: we know exactly what the public transport system needs and what the rolling-stock system needs and what the distance is, we're very clear. We can't do a new set of wheels again; what it's all about is completing the one that's been taken over by both sides. If we move in these terms, we can get out. But here, let's just say, it's been a long time since we've had clear ideas in this sense. And we're so clear that what we're asking for is two things – and we're asking for the compromise of the chamber in this sense – that what we're asking is that it's complete to what's been agreed, and that we can manage it directly, assuming the highest level of responsibility. We are kind of blaming Madrid; this does not improve the quality of life of the people of this country. We want to be responsible for our own decisions. That is why you, in this chamber, have chosen us as the government – as the government – of Catalonia. This is the basic idea of work. Thank you, therefore, Mr. Deputy, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the Institute for the Study of Self-Government]] [[300-00112/11]] The next item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the Institute for the Study of Self-Government, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.205.0	Well, let's see. MPs, MPs – thanks, president –, councillor... "No one dares to look what it is. That is not a phrase of mine, it is a phrase of Rousseau, and I have brought it here precisely, to this plenary, as a result of last week's appearances of Mr.Viver and Mr. Cullell in the Commission of Institutional Affers, in those two appearances, where, in the end, neither of them gave account of what work they are doing at the head of the Institut d'Estudis de l'Autogovern – which is, let us say, the subject of the inquiry – not even of the Secretary of Development d'Autogovern. Accountability was mandatory, but none of the opposition groups gave us an explanation either of their functions, of their costs or of their specific objectives. And, as they depend on the Department of Presidency, for that is precisely why, Councillor, we are going to ask you the question. It is true that they did not account for any functions, costs or objectives of the bodies they preside over, but they were also scandalized. And they were shocked because they were simply described daily as a dark committee of operations willing to articulate a blow to democracy, which is exactly what they do, right? And since they depend on you, and even Mr.Viver told us: "I do and do the tasks that the Government sends me, we ask you to account. It is true that, in these last two governments of the Generalitat, to govern, to govern..., what are the matters that affect the day-to-day Catalan citizens, you have ruled little, and that you have had a certain creativity in terms of the very prolific procedural literature, you have greatly increased the dictionary. And that..., nothing happens, because at the end of the day it is little useful – very little useful – but quite cheap for Catalans. The problem is when, apart from that inventive and fruitful work, you create bodies, loudspeakers and structures of separation, which does create a non-innocent situation, among other things because it is not so in political or economic terms. The origin of all this, and the origin of which we ask you about the institute, comes practically in 2013 isn't it? , when in the second government of the best you created what was called the Council Counsellor for the National Transition, which, among other things, was also formed – and chaired it too – by Mr.Viver i Pi-Sunyer. This council depended exactly on the Department of Presidency, just like now, and devoted most of its time – and the money of Catalans, which is the most serious of all – to making reports that would be collected at the end, so, in a sort of white paper; this, precisely [[the speaker shows a book]] , this book, which continues to be a remake of the White Paper of Independence that Alex Salmond made in Scotland. This book includes those eighteen reports that the council made. And those eighteen reports what they described were the steps to generate and create state structures, and they calculated, therefore, even the costs of a supposed or hypothetical unilateral independence of Catalonia, including also, of course, the fall in the average income of Catalan citizens, that is, the fall in GDP. Elections are called, there are new majorities, the Group of Junts for Yes form government together with the Republican Left, and you decide, therefore, to create new entities that will accompany that former Institute d'Estudis de l'Autogovern, which always existed, and that presides Viver. And they begin to distribute posts, in different entities, in the form of a zipper – one for Esquerra, one for Convergence and Union – which in this they are magnificent: you create the Secretariat for the Development of Self-Government, which, together with the Institut d'Estudis, goes on to depend on the Presidency; you create the Office of Millora de l'Autogovern, which goes on to depend on the Vice-President; you appoint an interdepartmental commission for self-government supposedly to coordinate those two, when it is not well understood, because there is already a general direction of interdepartmental coordination that should already coordinate everything that is necessary; you also create a commissioner for the national transition, which the Constitutional Court, therefore, a few months ago in September, suspends, because it is a body responsible for preparing state structures for a future independent state. And all of them, let's say, on paper, have a series of functions, a series of functions that, of course, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, so we find a little strange, don't we? , because it seems that they are the same functions per tripled. And, on paper, what appears is that these bodies are instruments and entities dedicated to strengthening Catalan self-government. They do so by holding symposia, preparing reports and opinions, publishing publications and coordinating different departments and institutions. And I say, if we look at each of the works that these different entities have done, let's see how these gentlemen are protecting self-government. And we've come across some very shocking things, haven't we? , as in the beginning the institute was primarily dedicated to fulfilling its objectives, which were to strengthen self-government in Catalonia and to report and issue on issues relating to Catalonia's autonomy, on the financing of sub-state entities, regional autonomy and European integration, but it is currently focusing on other things. And it focuses no more or less, therefore, than on publishing books as interesting and as constructive from the point of view of self-government as Small Nations in a world that becomes great, A geographical view of independence, Justice and legality of secession: a theory of national self-determination from Catalonia, Current interpretation of the right to self-determination. Do you not think that this should be, in any case, an independenceist working group within the independenceist parties and not a government-dependent entity that pays all Catalans to, precisely, violate the laws and achieve that independence, which is a legitimate political objective, but which, in any case, should not pay all Catalans? Do you not believe that even the very creation of these entities, which are supposed to strengthen self - government, is clearly distorted, fraudulently used, and that this does not serve at all to justify their existence, but precisely to the contrary? We asked them at their time, last week, to the attendees..., to explain to us, exactly..., we did it in writing, we did it orally, we did it in committee, we did it in question to answer by the Government, but we continue without the answer: what difference is there between all these entities? Let's see if you can explain it to us, apart from directing them, some, a member of the Republican Left, and others directing them by a member of Convergence and Union. What and who commissioned the institute or the secretariat, or even the office, to draw up a report on the Catalan DNI and its alleged approximate cost of some €9 million? I'll tell you why. This information was published in La Vanguardia; of course, the Government has not yet spoken about it, and Mr.Viver said that he... at least he didn't. What about the others? Who commissioned it and why? Who is drawing up an inventory of goods of the autonomic state, of autonomic goods, and also of local goods? I say this because we were told that this was still being done and work continued on it, and I would like to remind you that there is a ruling by the Constitutional Court that precisely stated that this was illegal, violated local autonomy and different laws on it, and that this work could not be continued. I would also like us to know who and who was entrusted with a study, or a report, on the possibility of conducting a RUI, a unilateral resolution of independence. I believe that, with the issues of entities and bodies created with public money for a purpose determined by law, which we see is not being fulfilled, we must be transparent and clear. And for the time being, the government isn't. Let us see if, with this opportunity, the Councilwoman will explain to us exactly the questions we have asked her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.206.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next, answer Ms. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.207.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Member, Members, Members of Parliament, indeed, a few days ago before the IAC the director of the Institute of Self-Government Studies, Mr Carles Vivar and Mr Pi-Sunyer – whom I greet – appeared on the side of the secretary, Mr Victor Cullell – whom I also greet – to explain his programme of activities to the band..., which you, of course, should not listen to, because, in their demonstrations – I have read them carefully – clearly explained the functions, objectives and also the costs, honourable Member, of this structure. You again today – you also did so before the CAI – make manifest the allergy that you have towards everything that you represent the development of our self-government and our institutions. I'm not just talking about the current moment... Certainly, I thank you for recognizing that independence is a legitimate political objective; I had never heard of it before. In any case, regardless of this moment in which we are working for a legitimate political objective, you see from a time, this allergy to which you referred, in which in Catalonia, for example, we worked to approve a new statute of autonomy, and you collected signatures from the State so as to prevent it being drawn forward. So they are now critical – I should say that they are also legitimate, obviously – in relation to the Institute of Self-Government Studies, involved in the creation of summer structures, but that they have very little credibility, because you always find one or more arguments, or more than one, or more than two, to oppose the fact that our country has more self-government and more decision-making capacity. Of course, self-government, why? What do we want him for? And why do we want to strengthen him? So, to have the maximum tools and tools for the welfare of people. I have no problem explaining again to him who are the functions of the institute and explaining to him, also, who are the differences, also of inscription, of functions, of the different structures that we have, as in government, to develop self-government. The Institute for the Study of Self-Government, which you know perfectly well, which depends on the President of the Generality, has functions of research and has functions of advisory functions– certainly, some functions related, therefore, with the preparation of studies, reports, notes or verbal reports which are requested by him–, and a line of work that analyses the normative policies of the State and the margin of manoeuvre that remains in the Generality to establish its own policies in those areas where it has attributed competences, in different areas: education, environment, internal commerce, etc., all of which are glued to the web, and, therefore, perfectly searchable. Some advisory functions in which you are also asked: "Why? What's the end of it? Therefore, clearly, in order to prepare us to assume the functions to be performed in case Catalonia becomes an independent state, as advocated by the Government of the Generality and the parties that support it. Documents, in short, which help us in the adoption of decisions, to take positions, whether or not they are converted into concrete actions. This is the function or one of the main functions of this Institute of Self-Government Studies. The Secretary for Self-Government Development? So, I also explain it to you – it was done on the 14th of December, but we will return there –: it has organic dependence, in this case, on my person, on the Councillor of Presidency. I take back part of the functions of the former Office for the Development of Self-Government, which were previously rooted in the Department of Governance and Institutional Relations, and, in this case, what it does is propose, promote and plan actions related to the deepening of this self-government, and to us both, so much in our interest to strengthen – and to give support to the departments in the preparation of these measures. And he collaborates, of course, because there is an element of coordination, as it cannot otherwise be, with the Institute of Self-Government. An office – you also mentioned it –, the Office for the Million of Institutions of Self-Government. In this case, according to the Department of Vice-Presidentship and Economy and History. Why? Therefore, because this department has directed the coordination of the different departments with the application of the general guidelines of government action, also in relation to the development of self-government. And finally, the Interdepartmental Commission for the Development of Self-Government, we are developing and discussing the political strategies to govern this development process. Why, all these instruments? So, because, honourable Member, you give us a lot, but what a lot of work, believe me a lot, but what a lot of work. What does it look like? So, I'll explain it to you. I want to put in value, once more, the task that is realized from the institute and, especially, from the secretary, in this matter. Why, what helps us to do, the Secretary for Self-Government Development? So, to detect, to analyze and to follow up on all those actions that you, from the Government of the State, owe at the end of what is called, for example, "the reform of the Public Administration – sure that it sounds, informs Cora. And we, as the government, have the obligation to analyse all this and, above all, to react, because from here on, there are many detailes, for example, in the matter of social policies; or, for example, when we find ourselves numerous interbanks at the time of drafting and implementing regulations, for example, of fighting against the energy poverty – certainly, a regulation that was now..., so painful that it was, however, prepared by you, at the level of the state government – or sub-investment in infrastructures – a while ago, in the previous inquiry to the government, precisely, it was spoken of this matter – or incompletely – to cite another example, which could follow – from the tristad of the third state. In short, these actions of the State, analyzed by the Secretary, allow us to prove the detail of self-government capacity that you, your Government, the Government of the People's Party, inflict on us. And in the end, it's a matter of hardship... you don't like the term' hardships; it's the same, it's reality, it's facts that they're perfectly objective and objective, a list of flagrant incompliments that the President of the Generality delivered to the President of the Spanish Government many days ago, that they're forty-six but they could be more – in any case less – and that they have the need on the table, in the first place, to adopt concrete actions in order to guarantee all these social rights, in terms of social policy, but also of fiscal policy, financed; that they have to manifest the flagrant incompliments of the Spanish State with Catalonia, their withdrawal, honourable Member, the invasion of competition and constant interference in the government. And, in the third place, it also helps us to analyze the constant judicialization. And today is, sadly, a day appointed to speak of this question, twenty-four hours after the notification to the members of the Bureau of the Constitutional Court Resolution, and a few hours after the members of the Government are, too, notified of this resolution and its suspension. We have a very clear obligation, honourable Member, that it is to seek the ways of negotiation and dialogue to give out the democratic aspirations of a majority. You do not have to agree, but there is a majority, in this Parliament of Catalonia, that encourages us in this sense, and also a social majority, a social majority that is found in the form of almost 85_percent of citizens who agree in the celebration of a referendum, of a referendum binding on the future politics of Catalonia. Therefore, you will refuse to have the necessary knowledge about who are the functions of the organs to which you refer; you will deny that it is spoken, with much clarity and with much transparency, of which are your goals and which is your work planning or your costs. He said, Mr.Liver and Mr. Pi-Sunyer: year 2016, in which we carry from year 2016, to what the Institute of Self-Government Studies has spent is 800,000_euros; he explained it in a way, I insist, also very clear and very diaphanous. You are not the best at giving lessons on how to govern or stop ruling, after months and months of government in function and total and absolute political inaction; another thing is legal action, constant recourse to justice and to the courts. You have also invented words, in this vocabulary to which you refer. The "dialeg operation, to begin with, is a great invention; in change, the Catalonia operation has been a great reality, a Catalonia operation understood as the invention of patterns of corruption against policies of superiranism. You know perfectly well that the Alderman's reports for the National Transition, CATN, are public, are perfectly available to everyone who wants to know them. And I remind you that the people who collaborated with you, for example, from other advisors who had the previous execution, the former Government, as is the case with CAREC, never received any type of remuneration for their expertise and for their work at the time of preparing all these reports. I would recommend, for example, that I review the report referring to pensions; perhaps so in some conclusion, of this constant action to stay hand in hand at the pension keeper, but at the same time, assert, with the so-called rise, that in a Catalonia independent pensions are not guaranteed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.208.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.209.0	She'll advise, two minutes, four questions, zero answers. Restrooms, all of the world; answers, not one. Reminders: See, the People's Party did not participate, nor did it have such an opportunity to improve or even make the State a reality that they did not bring to a unconstitutionality, because they did not let us participate. I remind you of the signature of the Tinell Pact. I remind you that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party has submitted papers to this Statute and they have not even looked at it at the moment. I also remember..., I say this because it seems that whenever you go to our parliamentary group you think that we are government; this parliamentary group is not government. You stop holding back the government, 'cause we're on the same game, yeah, but we're not a government. And, above all, let's learn a few lessons, because in the end, you said to me, "Listen, you were working, huh? They had a government in place. So, I don't know what's better, whether a government works or a government with the UPC; I don't know what's better, huh? Let's see where they're taking us, the CUP lords. In the end, what has been shown in his answer is that the name doesn't do the thing; that what exactly are these three bodies and these three institutions are simply to place the people of the Republican Left and Convergence, independent, of course. And what it is, in the end, is a committee of operations to break the law, paid for all Catalans, and that in the end they are dedicated to what they are dedicated to. You're talking about an ecology report. Please, we've been looking at all the activity that the three of us have in the past, and the institute, and the reality shows that they're just doing the opposite: they're not just protecting self-government, they're just putting it in danger. Mr. Liver explained to us, effectively, how much it cost, the Institute of Studies, and told us exactly what it cost; but the reality is that there are four of us, at an approximate cost of more than €1 million each, and in the end they are committees that are dedicated solely and exclusively to reporting, symposiums and meetings on how to disconnect from reality, how to disconnect Catalonia from the rest of Spain and how to disconnect the Catalans from the rest of Europe. And what I ask of you is that you do the favor of doing the surgery to the committee; do the surgery; do the effort, since you have this fantastic name, like one of them, which is the institute, which is self-government, better than self-government, to try to preserve precisely this and not put it in danger, to try to work to improve the conditions of Catalans. You, once and for all, suppress this phase of disconnection; connect with the living conditions that Catalans have and work to improve them. Because, speaking of confrontation, speaking of loss of economic capacity on the part of Catalans, speaking of unilateral declarations of independence, speaking of how to be a Catalonia separate from the rest of Spain and outside Europe, what they do precisely is to put in danger the welfare of all Catalan citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.210.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.211.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, do you see that? ; if he gives me the reason. You see, how do we need these structures to preserve our self-government? We need them: the institute, the secretary, the office and the inter-departmental commission – it is not said « committee», organizations that are absolutely complementary and that we defend everything, already advance it, I ask ourselves how you ask us and the times you need. We will defend them, because they do a great job and very much needed. But now I'm serious, honourable Member, because you do seem to be what you are – I say for the sake of your intervention. You went back to talking, and you did, and you think 'but you lost me when I read it in the transcript of the appearances of last 14th of December, in the "time of state. You said, and you said again here today, that the mission of this body, of the Institute of Studies of Self-Government, was to take a look at the state. If you don't know, I'll read you what I want to say at the end of the day, according to the Catalan Institute of Studies: "the action of violently taking the political power of a country a minority group linked to a sector or to the totality of the armed forces. I ask you, Mrs. García, that, by dignity, you are drawn from these words, that you have nothing to do with what we are doing, nothing to do with the vast majority who claim a political solution to the conflict that Catalonia has seen, this more than 80_per_cent who understand that the solution goes through a referendum that can decide on political relations between Catalonia and Spain. I don't think it's tolerable, that you make statements this way. Dubti, questions as much as you want the functions of any body that reports to the Government of the Generality, but does not question or insult the democratic character of the Catalan people and their institutions, because all the actions that this Government does, everyone, pleases them or does not please them, answer to the exercise of democracy, freedom of expression. And, exercising all this, we find the courts face to face and we find the Government of the State – I will not say again to you – the Government of the People's Party – is to say, to you – face to face, an unaudited fact in Europe, in the Europe of the 21st century. And the only couple of days we've had the Catalans have come from the insurrection of the Spanish military powers, honourable Member, who have tried to liquidate our raison d'être, our identity, our language, our culture, and the will to be a country and to become a state close to us. And eighty years after that fascist military coup, you're the only ones who haven't condemned him. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.212.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Munté. [[Question to the Government on relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain]] [[300-00111/11]] The next item is the debate on relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mr. Ferran Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.213.0	All right, thank you, President. One time we confirmed that he was the Romeva Councillor, whom he was asking, with the well-being that he is in his responsibilities in the matter of institutional relations, and no external action, eh? ... All right. Listen, Members and Members, advise, counselor, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is asking this question with the intention that we can discuss questions that we could hold about the while, eh? , to hear us. It is to say that, with the independence of the political objectives pursued by the Government and the parliamentary groups supporting it, we believe that there is a huge amount of assumptions that the governments of Spain and Catalonia should address and could resolve if there is political will for both sides to do so. It is obvious, and I must admit from the outset, that political visions respect the territorial organization of the State are different, but they certainly also respect a large number of other questions are different visions. But this is not something that is alien to the political practice in the states of our environment that also have a complex territorial organization and in which governments agree that they have political projects and visions of society, of the economy and of how administrations should function, which are different. In fact, so much so that the institutional conflict between different levels of government is neither an alien phenomenon nor a complex one nor a federation, because we, for example, do not promise the end of institutional conflict or conflicts of competition for the fact that we achieve our political objectives, which pass through the transformation of Spain into a federal, democratic and social state. But the truth is that there are questions that can be raised, that must be addressed in the negotiation framework so that at some point there will be a competition conflict, or a conflict between institutions, and, therefore, the case has come up, we must manage to have mechanisms to resolve these conflicts that, to the extent possible, avoid an extraordinary judicial process, huh? It is true that the Constitutional Court has the competences in these matters, in the remedies of unconstitutionality, in the positive conflicts of competitions, which are not the only ones in which the Government of Catalonia may have an interest in settling in the framework of the Constitutional Court, but those which constitute the most important bulk for what it does to the self-government of Catalonia, for example. In this sense, we must say that we are greatly concerned – and we call on the Government, in its responsibility, to act to avoid it – the situation of blocking relations between both governments. We believe that it is detrimental to the interests of Catalonia's citizens here and there, and it is obvious that a climate of incompliments and institutional disloyalties generates mistrust and block the situation. Probably the allegation could go in both directions, because, as I said, the governments of one and other levels of government are governments that have different political visions. We ask here, therefore, the Government of the Government of Catalonia, because it is the chamber where it corresponds, but we do so and we will do so with the Government of Spain, because we understand, and we have said on repeated occasions, that the responsibilities in the matter are shared. But, look, to begin with, I might be able to unlock, re-activate bilateral commissions and mixed commissions between the State and the Government of Spain, which have an important role to play, so as to begin to create a dialog between the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain to resolve the issues that affect, or could affect, if they are resolved, the daily lives of Catalans and Catalans. We understand that it is extraordinarily important to reactivate the Bilateral State-General Commission, which has not met since July 19, 2011, at least as it consists of us, and which has the function of being the main dialing mark between both governments; also the Joint State-General Transfer Commission ; the Bilateral Infrastructure Commission ; sense of doubt, the Joint Economic and Fiscal Affairs Commission. We also understand, on the margins of these mixed commissions, that it would be useful to prove that all those mechanisms that are in our abyss should be put on the market, or that the Spanish Government should set aside the mechanisms that are in its abyss, in the matter of recovering the maximum levels of the State of autonomy affected by Judgment 31/2010 of 28 June 2010, in the sense that the report drawn up by the Government of the Generality on the same year 2010 or the report that in its day commissioned the Government of Spain on the year 2010 also included some measures that might be of interest. We understand that there are questions here that can be seen with reforms of organic laws, but there are also no other issues that do not necessarily require a certain number of parliamentary majorities, but which depend more on a political will. We also believe that the document of forty-six requests or questions raised by President Puigdemont to President Rajoy can be a good starting point to start these issues, to put a line to the needle in the questions that are of interest to the citizens of Catalonia and, quite often, of interest to the joint citizens of Spain, because there are questions related to infrastructures that, quite clearly, are there, but there are no others that can also contribute to the common interest, if not, also to seek a framework of relations between the institutions of the country that is more normalized, and, I insist, to the independence of the objects that each has. We also believe that there is a series of subjects in which it is important that the Government of Catalonia, let's say, insist, even though there may be skepticism. For example, in requesting the Government of Spain to act for the recognition of the Catalan language unit and to take the necessary measures to comply with the mandate of Article 3 of the Constitution, or to request the Government of Spain to submit a draft law for the recognition of the multilingualism of the State and the promotion and protection of languages referred to therein, in detail, as provided for in Article 3.3 of the Constitution. We also give them something that has made us strange, in fact, that we have not seen examples in the past few years. A report was made in 2013 by the Government of the Generalitat on the incompliments of the Government of Spain with the Government of Catalonia. Among these many who were present, there were some who had to see with sentences of the Constitutional Court that they had been in favour of the interests of the Government of Catalonia, in whole or in part, and that, in turn, the Government of Spain was not executing. Well, with Article 92.3 of the Constitutional Court's Organic Law at hand, the enforcement incident can be resolved. And I'm not telling them to ask for disqualifications, but the thing that I am telling them is that they can propose to the court the most adjunct ways, according to the point of view of the Government of Catalonia, so that it is complimenting the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, that it can remember that they are also executed title, eh? , and, therefore, all public powers have the obligation to complete them ; also, obviously, the Government of Spain. And, although we are fortunate, with our will, to repeal the reform of the Constitutional Court's Organic Law, they do not think that the possibility of presenting an execution incident would disappear with this, because in previous texts of the Constitutional Court's Organic Law, and also in article 92, there is the possibility of presenting these enforcement incidents. Then, there would be a series of questions related to cultural policy, with questions of cultural equipment to the capital of Catalonia, but surely also in other ways, which could be the object of a special treatment in this dialogue with the Government of Spain, which, obviously, we already recognize that there must be political will on the part of all two governments, and not only their own, but it is extremely necessary that this is done. Because, look, the policy of empty fall to the hope that it will happen to you that you are trying to succeed is a policy that is not only extraordinarily irresponsible, let me be ashamed, but that, moreover, it seems to be very counterproductive to the interests of Catalans and Catalans, who, let us say, to the hope of which it may occur, lose opportunities on issues that could be solved, some of them, relatively minor but not least important, and others, absolutely transcendent. That's why we've asked him this question, and I'll listen with great pleasure to his reply, to the hope that we can, all folds, take something out of construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.214.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.215.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, let's start by thanking Congressman Pedret, especially for all of it. And I'm saying it with all my... well, with all my fraternity, without feeling it, because I think that, actually, let's say it, it's a tone that seeks an understanding, and it's a cordial tone, and it's, despite the nuances that we can have, a tone that seeks, as a minimum, to see where we can move and how we can move forward to solve problems. It's exactly how long we've been trying to put different actors on the table. And, therefore, I thank him, I thank him very deeply for this. Coming directly to the question... I have taken note of some of the questions that you raised, starting from the first idea, the most important, and it is clear that we have different visions. But it is not that there is a different view between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the Spanish State; it is that every time it is more likely to manifest that it is a difference of view between the people of Catalonia and the Spanish State. And we have the proof in different questions, different models, different consultations that have been made; the later, the one that came out published this very day precisely to The Journal of Catalonia, which explains, in a very clear way, this perception absolutely majority – majority, a 84_per_cent to me seems to be majority – of the people of Catalonia, who say that this is to be faced by the democratic way. You, this morning, more than that, were talking about a democratic answer. I am making my own words, and therefore I also agree that the fact that at these times the majority..., not the Government, but the majority of the people of Catalonia is asking is to face this by democratic means. Therefore, it is not a question between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State. In fact, this government, as you know, is a government that responds to a demand from the citizenry. It's a government that's not a party government; it's a project government, it's a government of the moment, it's a government that responds to a diversity of origins but with a coincidence of destiny, which is to solve this – to solve this. And when I talk about fate I don't talk about a physical place; I talk about how to deal with problems, I talk about the need to deal with it face to face. Because that's what you're up to, and that's the whole point of the world that's about to come up, I want to remind you that it's the same thing that we've been up on the table for years and that, in fact, it's been a couple of years, I think, important, interesting, positive, resolution, that was the State of Catalonia. And, besides, we found ourselves, with you and with a lot of other people, on the way, in the writing, in the adaptation and in the approval of this text. This text is absolutely, at these moments, in an institutional hole, which is what has justified, among others, the forty-six points. Because the forty-six points of which you mentioned – let's remember one more time – are not proposals to negotiate; they are already legally adopted commitments, many of them, on the part of the Government of the State. Therefore, they are legal incompliments, violations of the law– I say to all those who make so much vehemence serve when they speak of the need to complete the law–..., they are legal incompliments, incompliments of the law on the part of the Government of the State. That's those forty-six points. It's not an open proposal to talk about, it's inconclusive. And from this point of view, let's remember, too, why we're where we are and why we've come to the situation we've come to. You have made a very concrete and precious point of equal commissions, bilateral commissions, mixed commissions, relations between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State. And, effectively – I can say it in a very personal way too, because it touches me directly, taking on this responsibility – we have asked until seven times formally for the assembly of these commissions, because we understand – I agree with you – that there is a while. There's a political project, there's a democratic option, there's a citizen demand, but there's a while, and that's where questions have to be handled. And in this area, obviously, to those practical questions that demand an immediate answer, we must be able to find the way. That's why we've formally asked for it several times, up to seven times. The answer was zero, null, never. And, therefore, we have a situation that I think cannot be equated with the lack of willingness on the part of the State at the time of finding fulfillment to many of the things that you, I am sure, repeated, have planted. Are we worried about the blockade? Obviously – obviously. And that's exactly why we're where we are. What's the best way to solve the blockade? You said, 'Democracy is going to happen.' And, therefore, it is for this reason that I invite you, once more, to understand the opportunity we have, for example, the very diverging, with the summit in favour of the referendum..., to come, to get together, to participate, to understand and to demand, of course, all the contribution that the PSC has made to the construction of social Catalanism and political Catalanism in this country, but in some way we are moving forward. Because simply to keep us quiet one more time in the fact that there was no willingness to hear us, that there was no willingness to talk, I repeat, is to keep quiet in, to say the least, a way that has not come out. And it's this lack of exit that leads us, like the government, to insist, once in a while, to set things up in a different way from how they've been doing so far. I also want to remind you that what we have at this time is not just a lack of political will – which is there – at the time of hearing...; it is that there is an explicit political will to make Catalan action difficult. And I'm not just talking about outer action, which is obvious, known and manifest; I'm talking about inner action. I am talking about the explicit will, exercised by the Government of the State and by the State, through other actors, so that the Government of the Generality and Catalonia, through the different organs in which it is or wants or expects to be, as at least, considered..., tries to contribute something. Therefore, when you speak of empty cadres, and, indeed, we are aware of the context in which this reflection takes place, we cannot forget that, every time this fall has taken care of, it has served because or rather the agreements reached have never been completed, or to dilute the specificity, the singularity, the importance, the transcendence of the moment that is living at these times, I repeat, not the Government of the Generality, but the people of Catalonia in its conjunction, or, rather, directly, to deny..., or to bet on the lines of reference, as we have seen the last time, with all manner of politics to coerge, I repeat, the law, democracy, institutional and legal law of Catalonia to self-government. This is the mark we're in and out of. And the last reflection, and I also allow myself to make a personal point in this aspect: you have spoken of the linguistic question. Look, I told you in committee and I'm telling you here in public: for a lot of people, precisely the linguistic issue is a clear symptom. When a subject as easy to resolve as the Catalan language issue is, to speak Catalan to the European Parliament – a multilingual, multilingual parliament, where there would be no problem that a country which in its Constitution recognizes that it has four official languages, where it speaks with total normality each of these four languages, that a reality so easy to resolve, with a minimum of will, no longer says politics, say will, of the kind that follows – the problem is not, it is not the language; the problem is the State. And, therefore, we need to learn that it will come to an end, and, sometimes, these brands will just get over each other, because they are absolutely small. The mark of the relationship between the Generality and the State in many areas is frozen at these times, not by lack of will of this Government, but by an explicit, manifest and constant blocking and will of the State for: one, preventing the development of the self-government of Catalonia; two, chasing from a point of view and all judicial, as we have seen this morning, the same debate– no longer say the decisions, no longer say the actions, say the same debate–, and three, and finally, wanting, I believe, to cut what in democracy should be an unquestionable phonenal right, that is the right to decide, and I use these words because I know that in these terms you feel at times. And in this sense, I think it's obvious that what this is about today is knowing who, how and when he's willing to face the right to decide. And, I repeat, if we're talking about what people want, we're getting back the data that came out of a GESOP survey this day, where 85_percent of the population..., in an explicit way, 50_percent is in favour of making a reference, even though there's no agreement with the State, and the rest of it, until that 85, they ask for an agreement. But in any case, what they want is for there to be a consultation, which is for the people to deal with this question. I am saying this because, in time to face responsibilities, I understand the good offices that you have expressed, but I would also ask that we place in size and proportion the responsibilities of each of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.216.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] Mr. Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.217.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I must also thank you for the cordial tone of your answer. Obviously, we can't agree on everything; on some things, yes. It is true that there are incompliments on the part of the Spanish Government. And, look, I'll tell you, why don't we do it: incompliments on the part of this Spanish government and incompliments on the part of a Spanish government presided over by the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. But this is something that, unfortunately, also happens in countries that are organized in a decentralized, deconcentrated way, like ours. The degree of institutional conflict that exists, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany is also a high force. I'm not a right-hand specialist compared to this stuff. Certainly in the past few years we have a fairly high level of institutional conflict; in fact, the report to which he refers in the previous intervention, and made for the Government of the Government of Catalonia the year 2013– perhaps they have some more up-to-date–, made an analysis of institutional conflict between the judgment of 28 June 2010 and the month of September 2013. There was talk of a series of resources that were pending resolution and resources that had already been resolved in this period, between the Government of the Generality and the Government of Spain. In that report, there were 60 remedies or conflicts of competition that had been resolved; 26 were favourable to the Government of Catalonia; 11 were partially favourable to the Government of Catalonia; 3, were partially unfavourable; 16, were unfavourable, and 4, were interlocutors, who explained that the object of the discussion had ended because of the overcoming of the issue, whether by the act of the legislator or whatever. That was at the time. The portrait, therefore, gives us that there were more feelings favorable to the interests of the Government of Catalonia than they were unfavorable. I'm telling you why, when we're talking about the state's will as a whole, we'd have to go a little bit into it, because you've expressed yourself in a few words a tax, huh? , speaking in com«al terms, « May, etc.. And this leads, necessarily, to a certain impreciseness in the appreciation of political reality, etcetera. The will of the State is relatively difficult to escape, normally; what is a succession of political wills expressed by governments, which actually, for a while, lead the action of the State. Now, we understand that there is separation of powers, and therefore, effectively, there are structures and institutions of the State that operate autonomously or independently of each other, right? But what we see here, in fact, is that there is a government of the State that has - it has - had a re-entering pulse or, if it wants, not to say that it may be offensive, has had a clearly re-entering political intention, and this has increased the degree of institutional conflict. Counts: with the Government of Catalonia, certainly, and perhaps prominently, but also with many other autonomys of the State. Therefore, there are possible allies for this that we are planting, and that, I repeat, we also plant the Government of Spain and we will also plant the General Courts. There are possible aliases; for example, in finance. We should have had, in 2014, a new agreement, a new funding system, and we don't have it. And it will not be because we are satisfied with today's returns, even though they were superior to previous funding systems. Well, so, you know..., the Catalan government knows perfectly well that it can find alliances and allies in the socialist governments of various autonomous communities, which, in fact, have met and I believe that they have found numerous coincidences in this matter. But, look, it's that when I talk about empty falls and unilateral resignations to exercise certain duties, even though it's by skepticism or whatever it is, I talk about things, for example, very recently, like the fact that we're not able to offer candidates to fill vacancies in the Constitutional Court. Clearly, he will say to me: "This is Parliament's question. Yes, of course, there is a parliamentary group here..., two, in fact, which support the Government, and they did not want to propose..., very well, legitimately, but it was prevented, with the vote – also legitimately – that there is a proposal from the Parliament of Catalonia to cover vacancies in the Constitutional Court. It seems, at the very least, to have lost an opportunity to have a voice, a certain sensitivity, at the time of addressing all this long list of subjects to be addressed before the Constitutional Court and affecting the interests of the Government of Catalonia and also many others. Therefore, we will find ourselves, at the time of debating the motion, I suppose, with the parliamentary group that supports it – I have just now, President. And let us hope that, at least partially, we will continue to agree on issues that are worth addressing, because we believe that no government can escape, to address issues that are reasonable. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.219.0	Yes, thank you, President. Very quickly. I see, Mr Pedret, that, indeed, let's say, the intention is good, but we may disagree in the view of the moment we find ourselves, and I think it is a legitimate but important discrepancy. We're still aware of things. The problem is not to propose a person for the Constitutional Court; the problem is that the Constitutional Court is an organ every time more delegitimized, that every time the Parliament of Catalonia approves a law that bothers it, it resorts to it. That's the background problem. And, therefore, it is not a matter of deciding to have a person there who is more or less sympathetic; it is a matter of dealing with the problem of setting up, it is a matter of dealing with the problem face to face. It is a matter of agreeing that the Constitutional Court, at these moments, is an absolutely politicized organ that makes it possible to question the very credibility of the State, not only in its own face, but above all in its own face, which is what, at these moments, too – I remind you – have made known, among others, reports of the same Council of Europe. So, I repeat, it's not just a matter of good will, of proposing names, but it's a structural issue, and I think it's from the structural logic that we have to face the issue. And it's precisely some of this structural logic that I allow me to make out of a text, which, in fact, is a text that you probably need to know. First I read the text and then you will surely remember where you came from; in any case, I will also say so. The text says: "The preeminence of the value of political pluralism and the democratic principle, together with the fact that the Constitution does not contemplate clauses of intangibility, must lead to the conclusion that the view that it results from being a majority among Catalans in relation to political organization, to relations with the whole of Espanya, if expressed in accordance with law, with all democratic guarantees and in a clear and unequivocal manner, must be escorted and respected, and therefore have political consequences in our constitutional system, even if this opinion implies a split of the territorial integrity protected by Article 2 of the Constitution. I see he feels, because he recognizes these words perfectly. They're from the text. Get out of the sugar. Reflections from socialism, published for the Rafael Campalans Foundation, of which you are a co-author or author. I absolutely agree that it is important to deal with this; this is what we are asking that we do, that we do together. And, therefore, from this perspective, listening to the people of Catalonia wants to subtend the people of Catalonia the decision of what it wants. It's what we plant for him too that he comes to make with us divenders, on the day of the summit; he's more than inviting – he's more than inviting – to talk about it. We're going to talk about this; we're going to talk about how we're doing what you're going to do; we're going to know how and how we want the people of Catalonia to be able to rise above their own future and destiny. It doesn't seem to me that it's so extraordinary, the one we're planting, when you're the same – when you're the same – you're planting it in your texts. But, from this perspective, I repeat, to insist on a matter of matter the same day that we are, at these times, all, in this chamber, pending an interlocutory of the Constitutional Court, it seems to me that it is certainly complicated. I, if you'll allow me, also, to finish, we're not talking about minor issues. Clearly, it may be important to remember, but when you talk to me about the need to address the financial framework, I would like to remind you that every time there was a proposal that came out of Catalonia, there were actors from other communities who said, automatically, that, just because it was a proposal that came from Catalonia, they would do absolutely everything possible so that they did not move forward. Therefore, we have no problem – and we have explained this, and Vice-President Junqueras has perfectly explained it – working with other communities, other actors, other partners, it is obvious; in fact, we do – in fact, we do. Moreover, the problem is that, according to what we do, we end up harming people who, obviously, have no fault or no, to say the least, need to be harmed. That's the problem we have to face today. Because the problem, I repeat, we do not have it simply because there is no good understanding between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State; we have it because there is a structural problem. And either we're dealing with the structural problem, or this conversation we're having today, which is the same thing we could have had two years ago, from now on we won't have deepened it a little bit. That's the problem, that's the phone book difference between you and us. I repeat, I appreciate it very much, but it is clear that we have radically different visions of when we are. That's why we're doing what we're doing, and we're inviting you, from what they're explaining, to come with us, too. I think it would be a way to enrich and deepen much more on this, precisely, of what you were talking about, that is to find a democratic solution to the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.220.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Draft law on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures; on the creation of a tax on the environmental risk of production, handling and transport, custody and emission of radioactive elements; on the taxation of sweetened beverages; on the taxation of large commercial establishments, and on the taxation of tourist establishments (debate of totality)]] [[200-00020/11]] The next item is the total debate on the draft law on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures; the creation of a tax on the environmental risk of production, handling and transport, the custody and emission of radioactive elements; the taxation on sugar beet; the taxation on large commercial establishments; and the taxation on stays in tourist establishments. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.221.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Good afternoon to everyone. We find ourselves, like yesterday, in a session that will probably also be a little long. After overcoming, yesterday, the total submissions to the Bill of Presumptives Project for 2017, today we present the Bill of Fiscal, Financial, Administrative and Public Sector Measures Project, the name of the accompanying bill, which, as you know, is processed simultaneously to the Bill of Presumptives Project, since it is directly linked to the assimilation of the objects raised in that Bill of Presumptives. After the project of assumptions for 2016 was rejected, the law of measures that complemented them at that time was not processed, we did not get to present it. We are, therefore, carrying a draft law that reverses the content of the one that was to have followed the law of accompanying the assumptions of 2016, but with an enlargement. It's a broader proposal, it's a broader bill, that updates and deepens some of the precepts that were in that version, and that, as we will see – and, in fact, we know and can see, from the presentation that the President of Parliament made just a few seconds ago – it significantly increases tax and fiscal aspects. As we discussed earlier in the draft assumptions, the 2017 accounts stand out in a context of consolidation of economic growth, and, despite some forecasts slightly below the previous year, the difference with the European Union average continues to show a stronger situation in Catalonia than in the European Union and the euro area. Unfortunately, this – yesterday we also explained it, and we explained it in detail – economic recovery still not up to everyone, or at least not up, obviously, the same way as the conjunction of the worlds, at the conjunction of the families of our country. And, therefore, it is the task of the institutions, it is the task of the Government, and it is the task of this Parliament to adopt measures which contribute to a fair and effective redistribution of resources, income, and this is one of the intentions which is presented, which has been associated, that "pervades this Bill of Measures. I would like to recall, in this sense, the later appearance of the Secretary of History to the Economic Commission of this Parliament, and to make, in this sense, some considerations of context, which I believe are very important, which he has already done, and which have presided over the elaboration of this law which we are debating today. First of all, the economic crisis has caused a substantial increase in inequalities in our society. The tax system is and has to be a phone book to do-it front. It brings the tickets that must allow a social expense aimed at guaranteeing basic rights, among them education, health, all related to the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, etc. I, based on the progressive nature of the tax system, allows the introduction of redistributive elements between the different income segments of the company. In the second place, Catalonia has developed the previous years – between 2013 and 2016 – the standard margin in fiscal matters, and has developed it clearly upwards, with a fiscal impact expected for 2017 of more than 1,280_million euros, the result of this set of measures. This effort of our citizens, of the joint venture of our society, has allowed us to maintain a higher level of social spending in a period of great economic difficulties. And here it is very easy, very intuitive, to establish a comparison of order of magnitude without there being a strictly direct relationship between the two, but of order of magnitude between the increase of expenditure and investment in social policies that presents the project of assumptions and the greater recaptancy that we will obtain in the year 2017, the result of all these fiscal changes that have been made in the four years 2013-2016, and that, as I said a while ago, represent an increment, a recaptation of more, of 1,280_million euros. Thirdly, remember that there is a tax dumping practiced for other autonomous communities – particularly, for the Community of Madrid – and that it is obvious that the comparison of any tax system..., the fiscal behaviour of the economies around it and those in which there is a more direct competence, therefore, is an element to be taken into account. Fourthly, the European Union is strongly pushing for the elimination of any measure that discourages competition, and also for the deployment of fiscal measures linked to environmental issues. Some of the measures that are presented in this draft law of measures are derived from the judgments or orientations of the European Union, such as – and we will have occasion to analyse it at the length of this intervention – the reform of the IGCE or the tax on commercial aviation. The search – and here there is a bit of a summary of these four considerations that have a certain predictable character – of broad political consensus on tax changes has to be used to provide stability, to provide rigour, to give confidence to the citizen and, obviously, to the taxpayers and to the conjunction of the citizenry. And we would like to make a very clear orientation that minimizes tax years and tax revenues, which often cause a strong disorientation between the joint economy, society and taxpayers. At the same time, the Government of the Generality is still not in a position – and you are fully aware of it, and some of you have reminded us of this in your interventions in relation to yesterday's debate on the presuppositions of late –..., said that the Government of the Generality is still without the power and the instruments of economic policy that would enable it to deal with the social and economic needs of our society, and, moreover, its action is conditioned by decisions, which are often arbitrary and discriminatory, of the Government of the State. Yesterday we also went over a few of them; today, if anything, we would have occasion, too, to expand this fan. In these circumstances, it also explains the imperative need to overcome this institutional framework in order to equip us with those tools, the combination of tools that would enable the development of economic policies, fiscal and tax policies, to be more effective and beneficial in the context of our citizens. According to this context described and the economic policy objectives defined in the assumptions of the Generality, in the draft assumptions, this law, therefore, intend to give the necessary standard support to achieve these objectives and facilitate the realization and enforcement of the requirements contained in the Law of assumptions. In this sense, the law that we present today, the project that we present today, including 194 articles, organized, articulated in 10 titles, 16 additional provisions, 7 transitional provisions, 2 derogations and 7 final provisions, which together address a series of measures aimed at contributing to greater efficiency and efficiency in the development of the economic policy of the Government of the Generality. Before discussing the concrete content of the law, we also believe that it is important to point out that the CTESC – the Labour Council, Economic and Social – issued an opinion on the accompanying law, as is required – you are also aware of it. The report was issued on 28 November; it contains general comments and fifty-four observations, the article, and the Government has incorporated in the standard text a good number of recommendations made for social and economic agents – in concrete terms, thirty-four of sixty-six recommendations. What is it, then, that drew this panorama, which seemed to us to be essential to hear the content of the proposal we are bringing here today, the content of this bill? In the first part of this intervention the main provisions in tax matters, which, on the other hand, represent the most prominent part of the law, since they do not only include the updating of the typical aspects of each year, referents, among others, to taxes or public charges, but also, this year, include the creation of our taxes and important modifications of existing taxes. In this sense, these measures must allow the objectives of the Bill of Presuppositions for 2017 to be fulfilled, which we explained yesterday itself and which is no more than we briefly point out. The objectives are to achieve equal opportunities, equity and reduction of inequalities; according to priorities, the guarantee of public services of quality; the third of these priorities, economic growth, the promotion of research and development and research, and infrastructure in the productive sectors, and the fourth objective, transparency, evaluation, accounting and institutional development. At the expense of tax measures, which we have said are large, the law also backs up a series of economic management and administrative measures, which we will briefly explain in the second part of the intervention, and which include some of the measures already presented in the 2016 project. We do not extend its range, its spectrum, and we concretely make certain essential elements to achieve the objectives of economic policy, finance, productive, social and environmental nature of the assumptions of 2017. It is, therefore, a bill that is more extensive than that of previous years, not only because it wanted to collect the non-processed measures for 2016– with the rebuff of assumptions– and included the nine measures for 2017, but also because it faces an important review of the tax figures and of each time more restricted fiscal space conducive to competitions, limited and unfair, taxes that we have as the government still autonomous. In this sense, we want to highlight the important task of innovation that we have faced in proposing tax measures that do not only increase our government's spending capacity, but also make possible a more just, progressive and corrective tax system of negative externalities in various areas– of health, the environment, etc. We have always wanted to move in a _mark marked by four cardinal points, which are: of one band, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, and, in this sense, in this part, with the revision of tax benefits – after we try to explain it with more detail– ; the second of these great elements of reference is tax progress; the third, the recovery of taxes cancelled for the Constitutional Court, and the fourth, the fact of encumbered negative externalities..., some of the negative externalities, at least, that there are to our economy. Let's start with the tax arrangements. The fiscal measures that include the accompanying law that we are presenting today, more than looking for an increase in revenue that allows us to maintain the overall expenditure levels of the Government of Catalonia, are also based on a vocation of extrafiscal character, with the aim of correcting a whole series of negative externalities of social, environmental, health or economic character, and with the aim of improving the progress of our tax system. In short, they involve a deepening of the tax system as a modifying factor of certain negative behaviors that are given to the company, and a deepening of the tax system's willingness to make an effective tool for redistribution of wealth. And, at the same time, it seeks that the measures proposed did not discourage economic growth or job creation. We propose measures to improve our tax system with the will to improve this progressivity, to deploy the extra-fiscal potential of the tax system – especially in the environmental field –, to regulate and review tax benefits and develop tools for prevention and fighting fraud and tax evasion. Thus, in the matter of propitious tributes, highlight as more important elements the creation of two tributes. It is about the tax on sugar-excess drinks, which aims to discourage unhealthy eating habits, and the tax on environmental risk, production, handling, transport, custody and the emission of toxic elements, which replaces an earlier tax repealed by the Constitutional Court. Between the two, between these two taxes we, would suppose an estimated recaptancy for the year 2017 of 59,3_million euros, and 104_million euros in annual terms, is to say, when they apply over a full year. In order to advance the objectives of progressivity and environmental taxation, we will present, in this process of creating new tax figures, two taxes that are simultaneously in parliamentary process: the tax on non-productive activities – we will have to deal with it in this Chamber – and also the tax on CO2 emissions. Therefore, two taxes that are embedded in this Bill of Measures, two more that are being dealt with in parallel in this Parliament. As we have already pointed out before, in the accompanying law there are also planned modifications of existing taxes; not only of us, but of existing taxes. In the first place, the modification of the tax on large commercial establishments, which is thoroughly reviewed to adapt it to the recommendations of the European Commission, so that the environmental impact they cause is more accurate. Secondly, the tax on stays in tourist establishments, which is modified to modulate the growth of tourist demand segments that generate more saturation and less occupancy, to facilitate the completion of tax obligations and to improve its recaptancy efficiency. In the third place, among these changes there is also that of the tax on capital transfers, in which is established a greater progressive with the purpose of the increase of the fiscal pressure in the segment of the real estate market of higher prices, in which often these immobiles are subject to reverse operations. And, in the end, between the modifications are updated the quotas of the recreational machines and of chance in order to adapt them gradually to the current level of prices. At the same time, in addition to these changes in existing taxes, modifications are also expected in the field of deductions. In the first place, it is expected that an exempt minimum, fixed at 350_metres_squares, will be introduced in the empty housing tax to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers. And, on the other hand, it is planned to introduce changes in some deductions from the income tax of physical persons with the aim of reviewing tax benefits, already limiting the access of taxpayers' trams with higher income to certainly deductions or directly eliminating clearly regressive deductions. So, for what it does to this entire package of tax changes, it is expected that there will be a recaptator impact of 50.5_millions for the year 2017, and 77.7_millions in terms of the full year. Therefore, in addition to the creation of taxes that are present in this project, on the margins of the two that are being dealt with in parallel in this Parliament, and of the tax modifications and deductions that we have just planted, all this conjunction represents, for the year 2017, an increase forecast in the tax collection of 110_million euros, and for a full year, of 182_million euros more. Let's analyze them one by one, even if it's short. The deposit on sugar beet packages has a recaptancy forecast for the year 2017 of 31_millions, and 41,3_millions for a full year, in terms of annual character. This imposition compliments the recommendation of the World Health Organization contained in the October 11th report of this year, in which the adoption of tax measures that the sugary beguds go up. Therefore, it is a tax that seeks to reduce the consumption of these sugars in excess of sugars because of its negative aspects, because of its negative externalities, in the salvation of people. This tax is implemented or in implementation lives in numerous OECD countries, such as France, Finland, Hungary, Norway, the United Kingdom and Ireland, among others. And even so, despite the fact that recently, in a debate, Congressman Santi Rodríguez told us that he was totally against it, the Spanish Government has announced that it also intends to impose a tax in this regard. In our case, we propose the implementation of two different tax types for this type of beguds: one for those beguds that have a sugar content between 5 and 8_grams per 100_mil·litres, and another for beguds with a level above 8_grams of sugar per 100_mil·litres. We present, at least also, the following of the taxes that are planted in this project: the tax on the environmental risk of the production, manipulation, transport, custody and emission of radioactive elements. In this case, the planned recapitulation for the year 2017 is 28,3_millions, and the impact, in annual terms, of 62,8_millions. This tax will replace the tax on the production of nuclear energy repealed, dropped, by the Constitutional Court. It is a new tax, which is also extra-fiscal, which aims to place the local environmental risk and, ultimately, on people, which involves carrying out a follow-up of activities related to radiotoxic elements generated in thermonuclear reactions. We insist: production, manipulation, transport, custody and routine or accidental dispersion. Its purpose, that of this imposition, beyond the recaptancy, is that the agents, with their economic activity, from which they obtain benefits, cause negative externalities on the environment and the salvation of the people, assume the cost that they generate these externalities. In fact, it is planned to allocate 20_percent of the recovery to initiatives to reactivate the economy of the municipalities around nuclear power plants and to measures to protect nuclear risk in the most appropriate areas. Now, for the proposals on changes to existing taxes, I also present them briefly. For the modification of the tax on large commercial establishments, a recapitulation for the year 2017 of EUR 14,6_million is foreseen, and an impact, in annual terms, of EUR 18_million. This tax on large commercial establishments does not – it does not – charge the commercial activity itself, but it charges the negative externalities caused by access, to these centres, with the use of private vehicles. The tax reform aims to improve, to establish more accurately, these negative externalities generated in the environment, and is implemented on the basis of the proposals made by the EU Directorate-General for Competition. For the modification of the tax on stays in tourist establishments, a recapitulation for the year 2017 of 4_million euros is foreseen, with an impact, in annual terms, of almost 8_million euros, and with a total recapitulation – because it is the modification of an existing tax – that would reach 50,5_million euros. It is updated, this tax, to adapt it to the change in the tourism sector. The practice in the application of the tax has manifested the concurrence of certain faults to which to give answer in order to place the tax in line with the main cities of the world. In order to regulate the exponential growth of tourist use habitats in certain areas of the territory, it is proposed to increase their rate, especially in the city of Barcelona. It is also proposed that they go on to tax those port creuerists who are less than twelve hours old in port facilities, who until now are not exempt, but who also generate externalities about the city and the conjunct of the territory. Thirdly, the third amendment is that it refers to the tax on capital transfers and documented legal acts, with a forecast increase of EUR 23_million for 2017, and an increase in the impact, in annual terms, of EUR 27_million. The standard changes provided for in this tax on property transfers and documented legal acts are aimed at affecting the real estate market with the aim of helping to avoid a new real estate cylinder in certain areas of the country, caused by the pressure of tourism or foreign investments with speculative character. They claim, this modification, to gain progressive in the tax system by incorporating a new type of asset transfer tax for purchases of high-priced real estate, immovables that are being purchased by foreign investors or private individuals with high purchasing capacity. In concrete terms, in the tariff of documented legal acts and in the event that the waiver of the tax exemption on the value added occurs, the current type of '1.8 to 2.5_per_cent is raised. This increase seeks to prevent companies from circumventing the payment of the asset transfer tax. We also believe that we have social tax benefits, such as the 99_per_cent bonus that is set in the share of the tax that charges the housing leases of the public park destined for social logger, which seeks to reduce the tax burden on the collectius that have access to this type of housing. For the purpose of modifying the tax on recreational and recreational machines, the forecast for the renewal increase planned for the year 2017 is a little more than 9_million euros– 9,4 – and with an annual impact of almost 13_million euros. Here the modification consists of a 10-percent update of imports of the tax quotas of recreational and gambling machines, as from 2006 were frozen. In order not to lose recaptancy in real terms, it is therefore necessary to gradually update this import of fixed amount. For the modification in the field of deductions, there is a modification where a minimum free of 350_metres_squares is applied to prevent legal persons from being subject to legal persons who are not subject to the tax, since they are not large holders of housing, and administrative charges are reduced for taxpayers. And for what it also does to a deduction of the tax on the income of physical persons, with an impact, in annual terms, previews of some 13_million euros almost..., it is produced in the field of the tax of the IRPF, that it allows to deduct by inversion in shares to entities that contribute or that contribute in the segment of enterprises in expansion of the alternative market stock exchange, and to modify the conditions to enjoy the percentage increased previewed for certain contributors with higher induction in the inversion of the usual habitat. In relation to the donation deduction to language-enhancing entities, the scope of donor-beneficiary entities, such as the Institute of Araneos Studies and other entities that promote the Occitan language, was expanded. Arrangements for financing, administration and public sector – therefore, beyond innovations and tax changes. In these financial, administrative and public sector measures, they highlight those directly related to the search for greater economic control and financing of the public sector, the aim of free competition, ethics and social responsibility in public procurement and continued efforts in the restructuring and rationalisation of the public sector. For what it does to the first of these aspects – the greatest economic control and financing – there are better provisions in the definition and in the control mechanisms available to the Generality intervention to extend its action to the entire public sector. A register of grants and aid is also created as an instrument to provide economic information, finance, aid and subsidies, and to provide mechanisms to promote public policy planning, transparency and coordination between administrations, as well as to fight fraud more effectively. In the area of the Union of Accounts, the figure of the complaint and the regulation of its management was included, in all cases, for the protection of the data of the complainant. For the promotion of free competition, publicity, ethics and social responsibility in public procurement, the measures adopted stand out between the Social Pact against Corruption for democratic regeneration. Measures to prevent fraud are incorporated into public contracts, through the establishment of new measures to promote competition and promote the advertising of public contracts, and the inclusion of clauses and ethical principles and social responsibility in the provision of public services and public procurement. For the rationalisation and restructuring of the public sector, among the measures dedicated to a better organization and development of the public sector, we highlight, in the case of the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, the obligation to return totally or partially the subsidies received as a result of the operating returns of the project subsidized by the beneficiary cultural enterprises. In this context, the finalist character of the economic resources derived from the import of sanctions to be met by electricity, gas and water sub-managers is also envisaged as a consequence of the violation of the rights of consumers in relation to energy poverty, with the aim of helping to improve the conditions of the most vulnerable people. In the field of public service, we highlight changes aimed at ensuring the best conditions for the development of the public service by security personnel. Examples include the inclusion of compulsory psychophysical checks on the bodies of General Staff and Bombers, and in health, the evaluation forecasts of professional performance – the Catalan Institute of Health – for direct and staff staff with clinical management functions. For the purpose of sectoral measures, urban planning addresses, among other things, the problem of campgrounds located in flood risk areas. And in the medium-environmental order, it regulates the definition of what is understood as the "box bosses" and "delivery at home of any plastic material, and the free delivery is prohibited. In the natural environment, the enforcement of forest fire obligations in the event of non-existence of obliged entities or in the event of non-compliance is attributed to the joint implementation of forest fire obligations. In the health field, the Catalonia Health Order is amended to ensure the participation of local entities, users of health services, providers of health services, trade unions, business organisations, professional corporations, venereal entities, as well as associations of patients and family members in the territory, in the Catalonia Health Council and in territorial health participation councils. Finally, for the purpose of these sectoral measures, the modification of the tourism legislation is envisaged, and highlights the definition of the "location tourist service, which is necessary for the identification of the illegal – illegal – accommodation offer, which, moreover – will facilitate the inspection and control of the tax compliment on stays in tourist establishments. At the conclusion of this first intervention, I would like to recall – I do not do it almost ever, perhaps some of you fan and have inspired me in this sense – a few words from José Martí, the father of Cuban independence, written in 1891, who in a saseg entitled Our America stated that "the prize of the contests must not be for the best ode, but for the best study of the factors of the country in which it lives. He added: "Knowing the land, and ruling according to knowledge, is the only way to free the tyranny. We govern, therefore, the country knows it and considers it in its entirety its complexity, which is very – fortunately it is very – so that we can only find the right answers to improve the living conditions of the city council in Catalonia, convinced that political consensus surrounds fiscal changes, as in other areas, bring legal stability and security, that they are absolutely necessary, almost indispensable, in the context of the system. Thank you for your attention. We will have occasion to develop some specific aspects, of course, from their interventions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.222.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. In order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Antonio Espinosa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.223.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr President – you are here – Vice President, Councillors, Deputies and Assistant Public. With regard to the bill on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures that we are discussing today, and on which Citizens have tabled an amendment in its entirety, the first thing I would like to highlight is that it involves a general rise in tax pressure, and a criminalization and aggravation of sanctions. And all this only with the motivation and eagerness to increase the Government's collection. The second point I want to highlight is the lack of efficiency in management. And the example of ATLL is new, because in this bill we are asked to allow a credit to recover the bad concession of ATLL, instead of providing in the budgets an item to cover this contingency. The contingency fund, where there are already 300_million, instead of being used to repeat a 9-N could well be used for this purpose. The third thing I would like to note is the attempt to conceal in new figures supposedly environmental the suspensions of collection that will almost certainly come from the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union. But old problems are compounded by new problems, both constitutional and community, with this bill. Well, you know, it won't come from any more appeals before the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union, it's part of the process and its servitudes. But people are beginning to understand, and more and more people are doing so, the intentional confrontation with the state, violating the entire legal and competitive framework – not only Spanish, but also European – and with the sole intention of raising the spirits by assuming a falsely victimistic position, because we already know what is going to happen before it is approved. It is not surprising, therefore, that I have already felt that the 230_millions that are expected to have more deficits as a result of the increase of one tenth, for they are precisely designed to cover the more than 200 that will not be able to be collected as a result precisely of the cancellations that will come to us by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union. But the suspension doesn't come out for free. It costs us..., or it has the cost of ridicule, on the one hand; but, on the other hand, of interest, on the other: it has to be returned and returned with interest, and, on the other hand, of 4_per_cent. Therefore, the cost of ridicule and the cost of 4_per_cent, each euro we have to return because it has been improperly collected. Fourthly, I would like to refer to an issue that has been transferred to us by all the people and sectors concerned who have in one way or another come into contact with us, with our group; all of them, absolutely all, agree that the Government of the Generalitat has been unable to offer them the dialogue that would have enabled them to raise issues related to the need, the opportunity and the coherence of many of the measures that the draft law contains. This way of doing it, in fact, I have to say that we have not been surprised by Members, because the government has been practicing it with all the opposition parliamentary groups for a very long time. But, well, already entering into the analysis of the bill, our group will do so by structuring the measures into three large groups. Within the first group, that of taxes little or nothing effective by illegals, we think that the design that is given to the tax of empty houses will suppose to steal, to remove tax power from the municipalities, to which they are robbed a source of income. This tax comes into collision with the IBI surcharge, which charges exactly the same. Its management and collection, which should be carried out locally, will entail increased costs of management and collection, in this case. As far as the tax on large commercial establishments is concerned, there is, as you know, a procedure before the Court of Justice of the European Union, because its design involved state aid to certain establishments, because attempts had been made to promote political patronage, and this, as you know, is a practice prohibited by the European Union. The new tax is disguised as an environmental tax to end up taxing the same: the square meters of premises. From Citizens we think that this tax can be a case of double taxation, because it is very clear that in the face of some..., the impact of air pollution on vehicles is already taxed on the current tax system, and what this tax does is to re-tax it, but, yes, for a specific destination. We really think it's foolish. And another issue that is going to be a new problem is the exemption that is set out in this tax in relation to municipal markets. It is, technically, the most controversial element, and it is most likely that this tax will again become state aid contrary to Union law. Well, we repeat and repeat, and we stumble and stumble upon the same stone. In addition, this tax is the paradigm of absurd exemptions: do the first twenty-seven_ thousand customers not pollute? Well, that's funny, isn't it? With regard to the tax on sugary and packaged beverages, we think that, after the appearance of improving the health of the population, what is intended is simple and simply increase the collection by 41_million_de_euro. We all know – we all know – that taxes are not the right way to change consumption habits, and the clearest example is in tobacco: if their consumption has been reduced, it is not because of the cost of the box; it was mainly because of awareness campaigns and the ban on smoking in certain spaces. But there is another consideration which I would like to convey to you and which I also consider to be fundamental. If an ingredient is considered not to be beneficial to health, if it is considered to be unhealthy, it would have to be removed, or tax the ingredient itself – in this case, sugar. But what is not reasonable is that only one of the products containing it is burned. What reasons are there for taxing sugary beverages and not pastry and pastry products, which are even more sugary? I really don't see it. We are certainly faced with a clear example of discrimination by affecting a single category of sugar products. On the other hand, it is shown that taxes on food and drink are regressive, and particularly affect classes with fewer resources. Finally, I would like to point out, in relation to this tribute, that the distributor in whom the obligation of self-liquidation falls cannot guarantee that the consumer is from Catalan territory, and above all cannot guarantee that Catalan establishments cannot buy drinks from distributors outside Catalonia. With which, who gets hurt? The Catalan distributors, because, in the background, there will be in the stores of Catalonia the same products that come through non Catalan distributors. With regard to the tourist rate, we think it is a clear mistake to impose the duty of having a representative in Catalonia on all non-residents. But, of course, we consider an aspect that is contemplated here: it turns out that tourist homes will pay as a luxury hotel, 2.25 per night, while a three-star hotel will pay 0.6_euro per night. Explain it to me. Tax on radiological environmental risk. Well, this is the old nuclear tax, lying down by the Constitutional, and that now the Generalitat what it claims is, with other names, with other letters, and calling it and taxing..., as the Director General of Tributes, Marta Espasa said: "We record the number of nuclear disintegrations. Mariner's screen. Well, then, the only thing that is intended with this, playing with words and changing the name, is nothing other than to tax a taxable fact that is already taxed by the state tax on the value of electricity production. So, what will happen? Well, what will happen – most likely – is that in the end it will have the same fate: lying down by the Constitutional Court. In the section on tax increases, we have that the Generalitat intends to delete part of the deduction for those who bought the usual houses before 2013. And by doing it retroactively, huh? , what they are doing is changing the rules of the game to half-party, and thus harming 250,000 taxpayers who bought their home thinking they would have a tax deduction that they now take away. Litigation, more litigation. They also seek to abolish the deduction for investments in shares of listed companies in the alternative stock market. And what is achieved with this measure? Well, this measure harms and penalises those medium-sized enterprises that find financing in the alternative stock market, a financing that would serve them to commit investments and increase their capitalisation. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this measure makes it difficult to invest more solvent – more solvent – to medium-sized enterprises in the Catalan business sector, a sector in which Catalonia is the second largest autonomous community in number of enterprises, with a capitalisation of 300_million and thousands of jobs. Another nonsense left the CUP factory, of which the government is complicit. In relation to the rates, let's see, look, we cannot in any way share a generalized rise in the rates of 4_per_cent, which reaches 37_per_cent in some cases of agricultural rates. It is far above inflation and, therefore, the natural rise that these rates could have. It will impose a tax increase on farmers, plant protection producers, livestock farmers, transporters, entrepreneurs, foreigners and also students. It will lead to a rise in sectors such as water, culture, history, language study, civil protection, even to obtain the health card. We cannot share either the new rates or the increase in the existing rates provided for in the bill. If we believe that the fees are or serve to impact the cost of a public service to the individual benefited by it – and that is the origin and that is the reason for being, or should be the raison d'être, of the fees – then this leads us to a conclusion, and that is that the government recognizes itself inefficient in terms of costs, because it has not been able to optimize its resources since 2012. If we are raising the CPI..., if prices are rising much less than the rates are rising it is that the government is being clearly inefficient. In the section on administrative measures we find six large blocks. One, a large block: we find the measures which we could call 'injuries to the privacy of Catalans, and which are motivated, over and over again, persistently, by the attempt to build a database of a fiscal nature. Two, measures that lower the level of audit and internal control with loss of independence from the General Intervention of the Generalitat. Three amendments aimed at delaying the effective application of the Law on Transparency in Grants and Aids, creating, now, a register whose details are left to the good of the General Intervention, which, on the other hand, and as I said before, already loses independence. The fourth block: measures for the management of conflicts of interest, which is left to the Office of the President. Come on, it's like putting the wolf to keep the lambs. Fifth bloc: measures that show little respect for the Mossos. In our opinion, it is by specific law that they should regulate themselves, huh? , incompatible activities, time and schedule, permits and absences, etc........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And finally, we have another block, which would be the measures that increase the organisms-chiringuito, such as the Consell Català de Cogestio Marítima and the Railway Safety Agency: more bureaucratic structure and more unnecessary spending. Finally, the bill incorporates an abusive sanctioning regime. It serves as an example of the sanction for supernitrogenated agrarian soils, where nothing is taken into account...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.224.0	Mr. Spiny, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.225.0	... that the holder of the holding may have inherited this situation from the previous holder, which would logically relieve him of guilt and therefore his conduct could not be punishable. Anyway, for all these reasons...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.226.0	Mr. Spiny, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.227.0	... we have tabled an amendment in its entirety and we hope that it will have the majority support of the House. Thank you, President. Thank you, President; thank you, Vice-President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.228.0	Next, the words of Mr Rafel Bruguera, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.229.0	President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, late afternoon. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presents a totality of fiscal measures and funds for two reasons. The first, because we do not agree with the regulation proposed to us in the appropriate taxes, taxes and taxes, partly because they are excessive and partly because they are defective. Because the opportunity to address the need for more just and progressive tax reform, which makes you pay for who else you have and what you need to increase investments and resources for social policies and fighting inequality, is being neglected. Let us not forget, in this sense, that the assumptions we are debating do not contain fundamental aspects of the resolution on social emergence, approved for this Parliament a few weeks ago. The second reason for our attempt at totality is because this law went far beyond what should reasonably be a law of measures that accompanies assumptions. If I am allowed a colloquial expression, "three peoples pass, Mr Junqueras. Now I'm gonna make a little more of these two raons. First reason of our quest to totality: in the assumptions plan to increase the tickets by 2,048_million euros. If we take into account that 1,939 are devoted to the general best of the economy and to the collection, state taxes, beasts and financing system, it turns out that only 109_million are for the will of the Government, of the fiscal policy of the Government, is to say, only 5.3_percent of the major entries. And it will still be hot to stay there – most likely, we fear – the 31_millions planned for tax on sugar-excessed drinks, which will leave in 78_millions of euros the major revenue derived from the government's will. This is his fiscal policy: EUR 78_million. I'm not thinking about the needs of the Catalan people's joint. Change in IRPF's tax types, for example? Zero. If so, change the conditions below to enjoy inversion deduction in the usual habitat. Again, the solution is to pay more for what they already pay: the workers, the wage earners and the middle class. In short, the opportunity to face a real fiscal reform that is fairer, fairer and more progressive, is to call for a little more effort to which they generate and have more wealth, both in terms of income and in terms of assets, and not so much in terms of returns from work, medium and small returns, which are borne by the majority of the fiscal pressure. We're talking about the modification of the IRPF's autonomic trams, the assets, the estates and the donations, because there's scope. Yesterday, Mr Torrent said that the Government has used "all the room for manoeuvre that it has at its disposal," he said. "We'd be irresponsible if we didn't. So, no, absolutely: they have not used the possibilities or the margin of manoeuvre they have; another thing is that they do not want to use, but from margin to margin, from margin to margin. And so, on the margin, that we take into account, above all, for example, that we have the highest types of Spain on the lower rates, while the ones that make the highest – make them higher – in Catalonia are the ones that pay the lowest types in the whole State. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will present suggestions for correcting this situation, in line with what we have already put forward in an inquiry to the Vice-President and we have proposed in motions that you have rejected with the connivance of the vote of the People's Party, demonstrating that, beyond verbal gesticulation and verbal paraphernalia, Together for the Yes and the People's Party come together as two drops of water in many aspects; in fact, as the Romero company said yesterday, they absolutely share the same model of society. We estimate that, with a fair and progressive tax reform, and with real political will to fight against tax fraud, we could enter around EUR 1,000-1,200 million more, and so we would expect to remove some consciences in this chamber and hope that the CUP will not be dislodged from the views it has on this issue. According to the reason of the thought to the totality: this bill of law goes beyond the laws that the government has used to for years. In fact, we are ahead of a real troleibus law – it is not the same, but the troleibus. This, masked, camouflaged and cornered in the conjunction of the presuppositional debate with the intention of moving as far as possible to the unnoticed as possible: that there is no mass talk and that all the debate is focused on the famous party of the referendum or, as much, on the spending policies of the respective departments. I'm setting an example of what I want to say. Councillor Junqueras, in his appearance in Parliament to release the draft budget, did not speak only once the words «Lei de mesures ou «Lei d'accompaniment» – nor a single time – as if it did not exist. So, miri, yes, they exist. And all parliamentary groups are witnesses to the trick line, emails, and visits that we've received these days of a multitude of collections that are affected and harmed by the standard changes that they propose to amagatotis. We denounce this practice as abusive and disproportionate, and without the necessary debate, detailed and detailed. And that is that we can agree on some or many of the questions that are raised, but it would be good to discuss them, from our point of view, from one point to the next, through draft laws with normal processing or in one reading, not in the context of a presuppositionary debate. You pervert the presuppositional debate and the sense of a law of follow-up or measures. To give just one example of what we are saying: in the 11th derogation, modify the Law of Reelers in such a way that prostitution to reelers is no longer a hard offence. Do you think that a subject as sensitive as this, in what is at stake the debate' regulation versus abolition of prostitution, can be ventilated in this way? And without Councilman Junqueras saying a word in his intervention? Have you spoken to the mayors of the High Authority, for example? Have you agreed with anyone? I wish you all the House of Commons the rain of motions if you don't remove this measure and others. They change a six-year-old law, decrees and decrees that nothing has to do with the definition and concretion of presuppositional entries, which is what should be a real measurement law. To cite just a few examples: modify the law of public office, universities, the Conca, the Fishing Law, Democratic Memorial, forest fire prevention, animal protection, social services, Sports Law, Civil Code Law, etc. They also amend regulatory and consulting legislation, such as the Anti-Fraud Office Act and the Accounts Union Act. Certainly, in this case, they could – they could – be violating the Statute, it counts. Why? Because the Law of the Union of Accounts is of statutory development and requires an absolute majority of sixty-four Members. And the laws of assumptions, as you know, only need more assertive votes than negatius. We advise you about this fact and suggest that this point, if not withdrawn, as a minimum that is votes separately warning of the need for absolute majority. Moreover, through the repeal provisions and Annex 1, they derogate 161 full laws plus the Law on Large Commercial Establishments and the 2012 Presuppositional Enabling Law – certainly voted for by you together with the People's Party. And they exempt more than eight hundred from thirty-nine different laws, so with various attachments to these laws. We are, ladies and gentlemen, ahead of a true mechanism of cleansing of the legal order. And what do you mean, and I repeat, that in many of these questions, not to say in most of these derogations, we agree, for past and surpassed by more recent laws approved for this Parliament. But the mechanism used, the law of assumptions, is not adequate, neither politically nor legally. I repeat: we agree with the clarification, and, if they want, with the cleanness of the outdated and outdated legal order, but do it in another way: do it well, with information, transparency and dialogue, not from the dark or unilaterality. Entering into concrete aspects of some of these measures, they propose the creation of the Railway Safety Agency. The solution to the problem of the poor quality of railway services, from our point of view, does not go absolutely to create new bodies or duplicate functions. What the Government of the State and the Generality should do is invest confrontational relationships and enter a new path of loyal collaboration for the benefit of users. About Aigues Ter Llobregat incorporate the additional 14th order. He refers to the fact that, in assuming that the Supreme Court confirms the judgment of the High Court of Justice, the Government will explain the measures it will take to recover the public administration. With or without judgment, Mr Junqueras, the Socialists are in favour of recovering the management at the top of the water and, therefore, of Agües Ter Llobregat. In this sense, we have put forward a proposal for the law that is in progress at these times. Let us hope that the group that collects the Government will support it. With the proposal to amend the Llei d'aigues, for which it does the sanitation, there is a radical change in the model of sanitation in Catalonia that is in force until today. The current model is, sense dubte, better, but it is not appropriate to do so by mediating the Law of Measurements. This is a necessary debate, but it must be more thorough and paused, with the participation of all sectors, the administrations involved and all parliamentary groups. We therefore ask them to withdraw this point from the accompanying law; otherwise, we have already announced that we will vote against it and reserve the right to propose this debate within a short time. For what it does to the residue, Precat 2013-2020 describes a whole series of actions and actions to achieve the objectives it sets, and as described in its financing model of infrastructures and actions– is to say, 28_per_cent, private sector; 70_per_cent, Residus Agency, and 2_per_cent, others in public–, it seems that the Generality that supports the major pes, but with regard to this: in fact, the direct contribution of the Generality to the assumptions is zero. The increase in the waste collection of scumbraries is not the sole responsibility of the mayors of this country, as well as of the Puigdemont Government and Vice President Junqueras. They will approve or attempt to adopt measures that directly impact and increase the deficit of local administrations. Are you aware that these film elevations have already been approved by the assemblies? And that some of them, or many of them, even all the assumptions of the year 2017? , and what will you do with some of these measures that will increase the deficit of the joints? They propose a law on stays in tourist establishments and a new law on taxes to large commercial establishments. Haven't they talked to anyone about these issues, other than the CUP? With any parliamentary groups? With the local world? With the sectors involved? Look, we're asking them to pull it out, and they're processing it like a lime: with appearances, with transparency, with dialogue. In Article 178 and in various derogatory provisions, the Catalonian Tourism Act is amended on the definition of the figure of the travel agent and the requirements required of travel agents. Look, we don't agree, we don't think this is the right place to raise a theme of these characteristics. For what it does to sanitation, we oppose that the councillor is able to skip the council director of CatSalut to make nominations, as we also denounce the attempt to reduce the capabilities of the participating agencies in terms of salvation. And we do not share that they cover the citizenry the repositioning of the health net and even less the increase they propose. For example, for teaching purposes, Article 87 proposes the modification of exemptions and bonuses for entry-proof registration to the format cycle and others. We can't agree, we can't agree that I let disabled people out of the exemption. Does the CUP agree with these measures? Will you vote on these measures? I'm done. They also foresee that the economic resources of the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation include credits, loans and other financial operations. Frankly, we do not think it is reasonable that it is a good solution to finance cooperation through financial operations, and I think frankly that the CUP, in this sense, I assume it agrees with us. I'm done. The conclusion is clear: Mr. Counselor, Mr. Junqueras, you talk a little and, what is worse, you have very little will to do it. Have a little dialogue with Spain, but this Law of measures shows that they still have less dialogue with the assembly of the Catalan society and the institutions, organizations and associations that represent them and that they say so much to defend. Have they talked to the mayors about these modifications? Have they spoken to the parliamentary groups? With social workers, trade unions and employers? And with the affected sectors? No, no, You only have one goal: a pair of caramels at the CUP and, on the other hand, you will vote for everything that puts you in front of a shot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.230.0	Mr. Bruguera, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.231.0	...even though this – I finish, President – means...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.232.0	Ahabi, ahabi, so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.233.0	...to make it amagatotis, without a dialy, without a debate and camouflaged to the presuppositional debate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.234.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.235.0	Good afternoon. Mr. Junqueras, you started saying this would be a long debate. I think it's that you're getting very long, this debate about assumptions and the Tax Measures Act, and the non-verbal language that you've expressed to me. In fact, it has had the nullity of a dialogue on these laws until now and, surely, the maintenance, this nullity, and, therefore, is making it long to debate it in the Parliament of Catalonia. But we will: you will have to listen again to some of the things that have already been said to you and a few more in the mouth of this Member. Some said that they supported the people of the Ciutadana Guaranteed Income, of the ILP commission that is debating in this Parliament, a city came and said to us: "Home, but to be able to finish this rich in the country. My answer was: "No, it's that rich we have, the problem is that it's poorly distributed. That's what this law was about – that's what this law was about – and that's what this debate was about. Do we want to make real redistributive policy at a time like the present in which we have no more or less than a courageous return policy, such as guaranteed citizenship income? Do we want to make a courageous redistributive policy that allows us to charge much more to those who have more so that we can make this return policy? So, that's what this debate was about, and that's not what it's about – don't think about it – for 2017, the government doesn't propose a redistributive and fiscal policy that's different from what's been going on in the last few years. No tax change, and let me make it clear, to get back more than you have, the most social policies that fall into these moments in Catalonia cannot be difficult in the long run. That's what I'm saying. And to make the most social assumptions of history call us another type of fiscal policy. Nor can the social and economic model be changed to a more sustainable model if it is not committed to a new architecture of environmental taxation; it cannot be done if it is not a new plant of environmental taxation. And these things have to be clearly explained to the citizenry. And that's to make leftist policies or greenist policies; not to do it, it's to make liberal policies, which is what has been done all the past years in Catalonia. This law does not respond to the keystones of left-wing policies or ecological policies, it responds to the keystones of liberal policies. Clearly, you yourself, do a_me, before the companies self-define yourself as true liberals. [[Some applause.]] If the Republican Left of Catalonia is defined as true liberals, and they are ruling with those who already defended and did, in these last few years, and also voted in Congress for liberal policies, as we do not expect a liberal fiscal proposal? And that's what they're bringing us to the Parliament of Catalonia today. Beyond the definitions that this Member may be making, with statements, opinions, let's go to parties, counselor. During this year you have been able, on at least three occasions, to face different fiscal policies, and have not done so. Nor did they raise it for the 2016 assumptions, and the CUP did not vote for the 2016 assumptions precisely because they did not make this brave tax proposal. They did not vote for it... in fact, they voted with the right of this Parliament not hard to finish this tax reform when we raised other parliamentary groups, not only Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, but also the Socialist Party on two more occasions. And, therefore, throughout this year 2016, you have refused on three occasions, today it is the fourth, to make a tax reform that goes there on the Republican Left, until four days ago, when they are not defined as ‘true liberals and were in opposition, say they should do so; or there they are told by the entities and unions of the Poor Zero Platform for Fair Taxation, the ILP commission for guaranteed income, the entities of the third sector. What he wants is 77_percent of the population of Catalonia, according to the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio: the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio says that 77_percent of Catalans want to take taxes to the most wealthy. That's what they don't do, what they quit doing, actually, on this bill. Give up exercising the self-government they have in these issues to improve everything we can in fiscal policy. Therefore, they do not make any sense of disconnection, nor do they just fill in with what they can from the margin of self-government, but they do continuity and immobilism, and every time we doubt more than this is only for the convergent sector of the Government, which marked it. The hardest part is that this leads to a lack of capacity to influence tickets, and, therefore, a lack of capacity to influence expenditure, and, therefore, a lack of capacity to carry out real territorial, social, sustainability and gender equity assumptions. Catalonia Yes, it is. We can continue to insist that what is needed is a tax reform. And as it seems to be happening today, that this is going to happen, we will also do it with our papers, and the government has already made it clear that it does not intend to modify anything about this law in its processing, they have already made it clear, before it even enters the processing. A message for the CUP company: I think we can press, because we have voted these things together until now. And, of course, the currency of change that you were asked to change was the assumptions; therefore, you can set yourself up if you really need today you are also allowing this Law of Tax Measures to be passed, which you certainly do not share, in the background, and in many of the details. I am entering the detailed analysis of some of the elements of this proposal. While it's certainly not the same laws that we used to have the convergent governments of the last few years, the truth is that they keep a very worrying tick, a few very worrying ticks. They re-amend a lot of laws, without any presuppositionary effect: laws referring to health, to the Code of consumption, that of the ICS, that of sport, that of the Catalan Agency of Cooperation, the Català Internacional per la Pau, Memorial Democrátic, that of the Conca – when there is precisely a commission constituted to review it, and they modify it for the door of the behind with this project–, or, as they have already said, that of the Union of Accounts, and we repeat and reiterate the warning: it is a law that is of statutori development and, therefore, requires qualified majorities to modify it – in addition, the modification that they do, already we have, not share it. Taranna deregulator – also, a tic that repeats –: 164 laws or decrees that completely derogate. Are you sure all these 164 decrees are obsolete? And the other taranna they keep: the zero dial with the collections and actors affected by many of the changes they make in this law. A last case of complaint – if they want small, but for us very significant – the houses of colonies: they have included them in the state tax on tourist accommodation. Really? - Really? It's not as simple as knowing what happened to the colony houses or their activity. I'm not telling you what's getting us all over the local world. Five examples, briefly, of especially hard modifications that make for the local world, without dialect with the local world. The Law of the tax on empty habitats: they introduce a minimum exempt – you explained earlier –, a new exemption that can leave hundreds of empty habitats out of the obligation to pay, as the local world tells us from day-to-day knowledge. In the new Law on the tax on large commercial establishments, they lose the opportunity to allocate these resources to the financing of the public transport system, and, moreover, to do so with the participation of local administrations. With the new Law of the tax on stays in tourist establishments, or modification, return, they continue to limit its purpose to enhance tourism, and not to reverse the externalities produced for the tourist activity, which is what most of the tourist municipalities require. With the modification of the Railway Law, the local world has already begun to fear, Counsellor Rull, that with this modification what you are trying to do is involve local resources, now, for each of the works that are to be done better on the metro or on the railways. With the waste deposit box in controlled and incineration-oriented deposits, which make it cumulatively in one year at a place where we had an increase agreement in two years, knowing that this impacted very significantly on local assumptions, and there was no dialogue. Lost opportunities, Mr Junqueras, in this law. Not only do they maintain, but they increase the fee for the renewal or repositioning of the health card by three euros. Keep the fee for issuing foreign reports, instead of eliminating it, as approved by the Social Emergencies Committee of this Parliament [[some applause]] With a resolution that we have planted Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. They do not introduce social pricing into the official language school fee, or in the formative cycles of vocational training. And it's true that they shield the maintenance of existing P3 groups in public centers, but they keep the concerts going with the sex-secreting schools. Lost opportunity. Clear lost opportunity: brave fiscal measure to guarantee the quality plate of the area or for the model change in energy transition elements. In these environmental issues, this law is not just continuous, but even outdated. All folded up, they end up making little more entrances, sure, but more symbolic than real. Welcome to 109 million foreign entrances, if we believe them – if we believe them – which is what they expect for 2017, but they are insufficient, clearly insufficient. The only possible improvements of cranes that could be made from inputs for the year are to improve the model of autonomous financing, which they would renounce to affect, or with a profound reform of the propitious and yielded taxes, which you would also renounce to affect. There is an alternative – we have proposed it, we have said it on various occasions, both this same year..., and we will continue to insist on it –, an alternative that can lead us to enter no 100_millions, 1,000_millions more each year in Catalonia, and we want real and possible resources, and do not fly pigeons. A reform of the inheritance and donation tax: we have a lot of margin, with the tax and minority benefits that currently makes us receive 980_million less each year than we could with this tax – a lot of margin – ; we only plant that we touch the tax benefits of 5_per_cent of the highest inheritances. A reform of the estate tax to touch, affect the fifteen_ thousand declarants of the great fortunes; the higher taxation, make pay more to them than they have more. A modification of the IRPF's autonomous degree to affect only 5_percent of taxpayers, those who exceed six times the minimum interprofessional wage. We could make a protocol right away to recover as much as possible of the 2,000_million euros that every year costs public health the underreporting of work-related illnesses and that they would have to pay the mutuals. Or a tax not only on sugary beans, but – because of the logic of this type of tax, because it is for a matter of public salvation – a tax also on food without excess greasy, excess sugar or excess sodium beans; if not all of them, the logic of the element of salvation is lost. As you can see, simple proposals, oriented to the common good, in which the majority of the citizenry, the vast majority of the citizenry, in a well-established and, in fact, benefited. Because they set up tickets for a long term, a full route that passes for guaranteed citizenship income, for the basis of the waiting lists in dependence, for resources to implement like the Law of Housing Emergencies and Energy Poor, for resources for the occupation or to bet for a change of product model, and sustainable and future. No tax change of funds is all that is not possible. And, therefore, we need a law of follow-up with a valid plant, which can bring us to some ecological, feminist, redistributive and territorial rebalancing assumptions. This is the sense of our goal to the totality. I'm done, Counselor. At a time like the present, making a tax proposal to get 109_million outside when they could do one to get 1,000_million into a fiscal exercise is an irresponsible, and politically reprehensible and socially unjustifiable – that was literally what the Junts for Yes spokesman said yesterday to the debate on assumptions, Roger Torrent: "If the margins are not exhausted, it is politically reprehensible and socially unjustifiable. That's what you do. I stop complaining about having few skills or little margin when the one who has does not use it or does not eat it. [[Some applause.]] And it's sad and irresponsible to give up using that margin at these times, and it's especially sad that this is what you do to defend the freedom of our people, because it's not freed without minimum conditions of equality. And every opportunity that is lost to advance for equity is an opportunity that is lost to defend freedom. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.236.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.237.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, MPs, MPs, I think they should recognize all of you that the hardest part of this debate will be a server, who has submitted a petition to the totality to a bill of measures by a true liberal counsel, but that at the time quotes José Martí, and before groups who have also submitted papers to the totality and who say that it is a bill of law or that they are assumptions that we have agreed the Independentist Government with the People's Party, right? Therefore, it is a situation, as at least, that you must hear, that it is quite strange. Well, this is a bill that you have – I will also quote José Martí, I say in case it generates expectation – various parts, various chapters, as is well known and we have already heard about the interventions; three of us imposed and the reformulation or modification of the tourist tax – just can feel the sincere name of the bill. Of taxes, if I have not erred, I have not counted eight of nine; in some cases it is not strictly new, but what they have done has added to it taxed us; in some cases, not in a generic way– and this is also worth valuing – there is a general increase in taxes, but there have been punctual increases of certain taxes, which go between 9_per_cent– 15_per_cent, in other cases– up to 42_per_cent– 42 percent_must be the increase in the price of the copy of the health card. In tributes given, the most prominent are the increases in heritage transmissions and documented legal acts, which was one of those few taxes on which the Government has the capacity to regulate and which, compared to the tax types of the rest of the Spanish communities, were not yet the highest; now, we are already in the grip of all the communities. I mean, let's take advantage of the reform to push these tax figures, too, like the one that's the most. And, then, a combination of different measures, of many measures, which are, frankly – and some other Member has said – quite impropies of a law of measures. Basically, because there are no articles, no... And now I'll mention an additional arrangement, an additional arrangement, which has its own life. That's to say, it could be..., no, actually, it couldn't be; in fact, it has been the subject of multiple debates in this chamber, and even there's a pose that is working on a bill to do that with an additional provision of the government, and in the Bill of Measures, for the back door, ventilation, which is the subject of Eagles Ter Llobregat. I mean, we spent hours and hours of debate on Aigues Ter Llobregat, and the government went and, with a law of measures, with 194 articles, with countless additional provisions, transitional provisions, derogation provisions, an annex of repealed laws and another annex of two hundred municipalities and a special problem for the issue of housing, add an additional provision and say: "Hey! , that of the ATLL, if there is a feeling to the Supreme that it cancels the contest, I take it, I'm in direct management and the parliamentary debates are over. Home, it doesn't seem reasonable. Surely, with a small name, with a lower name, we could hear it, but with the quantity in which it is actually done in this law of measures, we cannot share it. All right, but then I think we also need to talk about what's not there. And in a law of measures, where the most important part is that of setting up those normative changes, those legislative changes that must allow to give support to assumptions, to give support to the part of inputs of assumptions, I believe that it is necessary to make a more global appreciation of the tax system and the tax system. And the debate is not whether or not imposed; we – I believe that everyone, and that is obvious – are convinced that taxes are necessary to correct inequalities and to finance public services, which, to a certain extent, are those that allow inequality to be reduced between the different citizens, and so far we absolutely agree. Now, what we can't hear is the tax system, it's the tax system like a winged system all around it. No, the tax system and the tax system have a direct impact on the combination of the economy and the situation of the economy. So I think it's worth it that when we value the tax system, when we value the taxes, when we value the taxes that we propose, we do it in an economic environment and we predict what consequences they can have in this economic environment. Therefore, we will obviously position ourselves in favour – it is obvious – of taxes, but they are measured. On the other hand, the government, with a trajectory..., with a long trajectory– because it is not the fruit of a day, this, not only of this government, but of a few years–, is more in favour of taxes at a time. And to the extent that in the taxes on which you are able to regulate, as for example in the IRPF, we are already in the highest types of taxes in Spain – after which I will refer more specifically – so, man, for what it does to propitious taxes, we are already the community that had the most propitious taxes, and now they add two more, in net terms – because one replaces another, and the other is a reformulation – plus a third that we will see tomorrow, plus two more that go with the Law of Climate Change, etc. That's to say, we don't have enough to be the first in the class, that over this race, we're making points so we don't get caught. And in this we disagree. I'm sorry, look, we could even get to admit it; we could get to admit it if you say, "Listen to me, we're so afraid of the resources we have to get to the whole town that we have nothing more to do than push taxes, so listen to me, look, we have no more solution. Look, we'd understand; we'd understand and we wouldn't have a problem. Now, see that the Catalans have to make these fiscal efforts at the same time as we see that the government's efforts are not precisely to meet the needs of citizens, but rather, on a very important part, 120_million in the case of these assumptions, are to feed the national spirit, so we cannot share it – we cannot share it, counselor. And that's why this, too, is an element of our goal to the totality. On the tax of large commercial surfaces. I think it would be a good idea to say that this is a reformulation of this tax to save the European Union's objection to the advantage that, in principle, involves the imposition of large commercial areas in small trade, and you are saying: "Well, now we are not going to tax the commercial area, but we are going to charge the cars that go to a certain commercial area. I think they lose the opportunity to change its name, because keeping the name of ‘tax on large commercial surfaces' I think it leaves a glimpse, once more, that the tax goes on trade, does not go on vehicles: it is not an environmental tax, but it is a tax on trade again. You've already changed everything, so it probably wouldn't have cost much to change our name either. But I also wanted to tell you something else, huh? What small trade needs is not that the big trade pays taxes. The need for small trade is that it is placed, that it is placed for urban centres, that it is helped, that it is dynamizing the centers of cities, that it is inverted in the centers of cities, that it is applied the Law of barrels, that we have passed the strip of years with the Law of suspended barrels – this year is recovered a little the Law of barrels, already seems good to us. That's what the little trade needs. Not that the others pay, but help them, right? On the tax on tourist establishments, well, I believe that the fact of posing, the tax, the tourist apartments of Barcelona at the same level as a five-star hotel, as has already been said, is nothing more than the reflex of the inability to try to solve a problem that will continue to persist. And someone must have thought, "Well, since we've got the problem and we'll keep it going, we're still covering. We don't seem to be the most appropriate solution. In relation to the tax that replaces the tax on nuclear, which is this of the radioactive elements. Let him know that I think the government doesn't take it into account here – and if there is, then, I suppose that the change in the collection already worked them well – which is the tax illusion; it is to say, to think that we impose a tax on someone, on some company, that generates nuclear energy in this case, and that this will go to the profit account. The easiest thing is that this company that you do is pass on, one way or another, that extra cost on the bill that the city will pay. I am saying this because, in the end, these 60_million euros in revenue from this tax that will end up paying them will be all the citizens of Catalonia without exception, and they will not pay their businesses. About the sweet beguds. I restate myself in the position I said to you a few weeks ago in this very hemisphere. Mirin, this tax can have two readings– "may: in reality it does not have two. If you say to me: "This imposes the pose to reduce the consumption of sugar beakers, it's a debate; we can discuss it, we can debate it, we can't stand it – we can debate it, if they want. Now, don't tell me that the tax you own here is precisely to reduce the consumption of sugary drinks, because it's not like that. There have been studies that show – there have been studies that show – that if the price of the product does not increase by 20_per_cent, it is inelastic. That is to say, as much as we have this tax, they will not stop selling sugar bean, so it will have no health effects, because consumers will continue to consume exactly the same amount of sugar bean; now, yes, the government will. Well, then, this is a tax with effects only and exclusively recaptatory. Look, we don't agree. Last element. They disapprove of opportunity – and it has already been said – to deepen in a reform on the tax on the income of physical persons. We agree with the general hypothesis – « general: then, when we go into detail, it is when there is a discrepancy – in relation to the fact that taxation must be fair and progressive – we already agree: fair and progressive. Now, certain parties say: "Listen, what we have to do is the richest pay the most taxes. What we say, and so we discussed here in Parliament, is that 75-80_percent of Catalans, who are the ones who pay more than all of Spain and those who have lower returns, less than 30_000_euros– and do so because the tax type of the IRPF that the Government of the Generality has put down is the highest of all Spain – let's lower their taxes to them. Let me... Now see the quote of José Martí, who was neither saint nor of my devotion, which is: "The right of the worker can never be hatred of capital. Well, it's an interesting reflection, framed in the 19th century, but I think that somehow that harmony that I advocated – I insist: in the 19th century – José Martí on social classes – I insist: at that time – I think it's worth taking into account in relation to the taxation of people who have lower and higher returns to see what effect all this has on the economy. Yesterday the BBVA Research presented the report on Catalonia, and announced very interesting data. A first, the forecasts of the growth of the Catalan economy of 2.9_per_cent, which was in July, and thus predicted by the assumptions of Mr Junqueras in June, are now, at this time, at 3.5_per_cent. And it makes a good prediction as well, even though with deceleration, by the year 2017, of 2.5_per_cent – certainly: a hair inferior to what Mr. Junqueras foresees in the assumptions. But he said this report, and this is the important thing, that what led to this increase in the growth of the Catalan economy is precisely internal consumption. How are we able to stimulate domestic consumption more? Pushing taxes on a 4_per_cent of taxpayers or lowering taxes on an 80_per_cent of taxpayers? So, look, no doubt we're betting to lower taxes to 80 percent of taxpayers. I'm done. A figure that I think is important, because in the end we can only see the fact or the circumstance of lowering taxes on a certain tram like that which we would stop recapturing immediately, but we need to see how this reduction of taxes on consumption will affect and, therefore, how it will affect the economy. Two figures, which do not have anything to see but I want to explain them: the Catalans, the year 2016, we have saved 1,780_million in taxes of the IRPF of the state tram for the reduction of taxes. And that, little or very much – I'm not able to value it, am I? , but little or much – it influences the best of the economy. According to data: of the total additional recaptancy that will be held by the Government of the Generalitat in 2017, 3,500_millions, 3,400 come from major recaptations thanks to the increase of the economic activity; only 100 come from the increase of taxes and taxes that you apply in this Bill of Measures. We therefore believe that it is worth this more global reflection on the effect of taxes, on the effect of tax measures on the economy as a whole. Therefore, to announce that our group will vote "yes to the totality that we have presented, and to matify and point out that, to help the groups in Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and Socialist that sees the difference between its totality and ours, ours "will be in bold and italic. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.238.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.239.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone another time. Just as yesterday's debate passed, a band is told that we have an afány confiscator, that we are only thinking of imposing taxes, that we are the most taxes we have, that we are the most taxes we have to pay; and, on the other hand, they say that there is no way that we have taxes, that there is no way that we charge taxes, and... I don't know, I'm listening, somewhere, between, there must be a certain virtue, or at least this is what we try to find. As it is possible that some of you say – because I am convinced that everyone is doing so with the utmost rigour – that we have very low taxes and others say that we have high taxes. Here, a very simple way of trying to explain it – we have tried on other occasions, probably without the success that we would have liked to have in this explanation – is that one thing is the type and another is the effective recap. And, for one band, we have types that are relatively high in our surroundings, compared to our surroundings, and on the other, we have an effective recap that is less than in the good part of our surroundings. How does that explain it? Not so much for a question of type of effect, but above all for a question of tax fraud, of tax evasion, of tax deductions, of an extraordinarily complex body of tax deductions that makes good part of those who would have to pay the taxes that already exist with the figures that exist, so that the payment of these taxes, that does not pay or that they fail, or that use the mechanisms established in the deductions to avoid the payment of these taxes, sometimes with complex tax engineering. So, what's the point? The objective is to ensure the best possible recovery, to maximize the recovery intended for the support of public services, which are guarantees of social justice, equal opportunities and also of future economic growth, without prejudice to economic development, reversal, generation of jobs, etc. For this reason, it seems to us that the best..., or part of the work we have to be a job destined, precisely, to the fight against tax fraud, to the fight against tax evasion, the reduction of tax deductions from this tax deduction, that in the case of the Catalan society, in a 90_per_cent, are deductions that are the result of decisions taken by the Spanish Government, and in a 10_per_cent are the result of deductions that have taken place in the Catalan institutional sphere, from which – from this 10_per_cent – 80_per_cent correspond to deductions in the field of inheritance tax, because they tend to protect the links of more own parents, for example, between parents and children, etc. Therefore, are there possible receptions in the tax field? Undoubtedly. The ones you raise are obviously contradictory, even though many of you today will coincide in the vote, and therefore will vote exactly the same, even though some of you accuse us of being closer to each other and others accuse us of being closer to each other. But in any case, the final result will be that you will vote together against the proposals that are being put forward. Indeed – and it seems to me that this is also an objective fact – the Government of Catalonia in the past few years has put into operation, activated a good part of the tax margins available, and in any case, it is certainly the sub-state, of the Spanish State, that has generated more effort in this sense, with higher types, with most tax figures, with most trams, but also with the creation of innovative tax figures that have, in dubious sense, a recaptator objective also to support these public services, which are affected by decisions taken in other institutional areas. Remember, for example, that, despite the fact that the general mark establishes that 50_per_cent of VAT collection would correspond to us, in reality the actual share that we did not arrive at is around 36_per_cent. That alone would correct a good part of the difficulties in which we find ourselves, together with so many other references that we have made to the remedy of deficiency, etc., of which we, like all of you, without exception, agree or disagree, are also victims, let us say, of this type of decision that the Spanish Government makes, I insist. Therefore, if we make a reply, as I understand that no one is sending the debate..., we make a reply another time to some of the tax figures we have said that they have been implemented – some of them, implemented effectively; of others, taken up or fallen for the Constitutional Court – : the deposit on banks; the deposit on banks that have accumulated blanks from the last crisis; the deposit on large commercial areas, in this case which does not – as the citizen group's spokesman refers – the deposit on the external surface, except that it enshrines the effect of the automatic processing of nuclear power, for this reason, on the media, to which it refers some of your citizens' groups; the deposit on the external processing of nuclear material that is generated; I can understand that – come on, it seems to me that it is perfectly legitimate, it cannot be otherwise – some of the spokespersons say that they disagree with the fact that they are at the time of correcting negative externalities of the tax on drinks with added sugars, as Mr Rodriguez said just a moment ago. In any case, it is an imposition that what it does is follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization, that I understand that it also has a perfectly respectable opinion, and probably well-functioning and well-built respect, and that it also follows the examples, as we said before, of other states that are implementing this type of fiscal figure, such as Norway, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Ireland, etc. Also to finish developing the package of fiscal measures that has been tried to develop and that in many cases has developed effectively, to all the list that I have just passed briefly a moment ago add to it also the tax on telephone companies, etc., eh? So, are there some relatively high types compared to our surroundings? The answer is yes. Is there an effective recap less than in good part of our surroundings, or at least in that part of our surroundings that we would like to assemble the most? The answer is yes. There are, of course, elements that support each of their interventions, even though they are frankly contradictory interventions because they recommend us to do exactly the opposite of each other. So, what's the point? Let's go back to it: the goal is to try to find the way to make this tax collection more effective. Where do we have the main problems in these runaways in the recap? We have them, as they say, in the fraud, we have them in the elusion, we have them in this complex network of deductions that often only benefit those who have more resources, who have more instruments, who have more legal protection or who are able to build engineering systems that will finance each time more complex. That is precisely why one of the Government's intentions with this law, with this proposal, is to dismount some of these deductions, bearing in mind that, as I said a moment ago, 90 % of these deductions are the result of decisions taken by the Spanish Government; only a 10 %, the result of deductions taken, decided, voted in our institutional spheres, from which, too, I would like to insist, 80 % of this 10 % is a reference to the imposition of estates to protect family bonds of a better degree, let's say, eh? Therefore, we share with many of you the diagnosis of concern before many of the social problems raised by our society – we share them. We are convinced that the crisis, because it is an evidence and so we have explained it – and I myself have had occasion to explain it, for example, in relation to the publication of the latest economic note published by our department – that the years of crisis from 2007 to 2014 have led to an increase in social differences; therefore, we are not absolutely convinced. We are also absolutely convinced that the measures we take and propose in the draft budget and in this draft bill of measures are precisely measures that they do to correct, at least in part, these inequalities. And yesterday we gave examples, very varied, because we made a long rest from the index of the poor, of the severe poor, in the indexes that relate 20_percent of the population it collects the most with 20_percent of the population it collects the least – the index Gini, Arope, etc. We explained it for 2015, and we saw how 2015 all of these indicators had improved – they had certainly improved less than we all wanted here; they had improved more than they had done until that moment, because until that moment they clearly got worse – and that trend, certainly, even though we don't have the data closed at that time, it has continued to improve and it has increased in 2016. It is clear that this does not involve any part of the present a huge satisfaction in the sense of thinking that we have sunk the set of objectives that we probably have set, but the conviction that we are moving in the right direction, and that actually put 1,170_million more euros in the set of these social policies, mainly in the field of health, education, social matters, etc., it is clear that it contributes to this correction, not only from a perspective of the immediate urgency that it will certainly be addressed, but also from the perspective of correcting those structural elements, the correction of which will also allow a greater growth of our economy, a greater capacity for fiscal recovery, and therefore also from the perspective of correcting those structural elements, the correction of which will also allow a greater growth of our economy, a greater capacity for fiscal recovery, a greater capacity for future sustainability. Therefore, we are convinced that we are walking in the right direction. We are convinced that between the statements of one and the other – that, I insist, everyone has a point of certainty – there are some elements that are common – that I have also tried to explain in the initial intervention, that I have now tried to go over more quickly – that we are trying to implement, and we are convinced that they will be implemented in a way that is more appropriate every time with the presupposition project and with this draft of measures that we are considering today. Then, some more punctual reflection, and I hope you'll also grow up with the best possible year, let's just say it, huh? To confirm to the spokesman of the Citizens' Group that the tax figure on large commercial areas does not refer to the meters of establishment, but to the effect of the parking spaces. We have no intention of expelling non-residents to Catalonia from the tax on drinks with added sugars; why should we do that? Those who consume, then, contribute, don't they? We don't want to get rid of anyone, because what we want is precisely to improve everyone's life, and we also want to improve everyone's recovery to make it available to everyone. For what you do to the elimination of business deductions that are financed in the alternative stock market, you have talked about « hundreds of companies and... No. Look at exactly how many companies there are and see that they can probably count on the two-hand sayings and that they would still have someone, so to speak. Regarding the taxes of the tourist use of the floors – several of you have made reference to it and, therefore, allow me to reply with a few answers to all of them – the objective is precisely to correct this excess of pressure that there is on the usual use of residential types of the floors on behalf of the roads, because there is a strong pressure on this tourist use and, therefore, we try to establish a mechanism of fiscal correction to avoid, or to correct or to refrigerate, a possible housing bomb in certain areas of our country and uniquely in the city of Barcelona. And, therefore, this is not one of the objectives: to use fiscal figures as an anticyclical element, huh? , and just contrary to what has usually been done by the state before, during and after the crisis. You also referred to the Railway Safety Agency as a "xiringuite". It's not a "xiringuite," it's the deployment of European legislation – and it's already there. The Socialist Party said that the tax change on empty floors modifies lower yields. No, on the contrary: it's designed to protect the lower side. The law on flats intended for tourist establishments; the same reflection that I have just done now: the objective is precisely to prevent there being an excess of pressure from the tourist use against the residential use of the roads, in this case uniquely from the city of Barcelona. I just... briefly, huh? , per... About Colonies: It's for touristic uses of age majors. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] It's that sometimes they plant it in a way that looks like it's, well, I'm almost at the end of the world, let's just say it, huh? It's for the touristic uses of age majors, okay? Then... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, from the split, from the distill. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.240.0	Please – please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.241.0	...he spoke today to a company of his...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.242.0	Please, they're not dialing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.243.0	I'm sure you enjoyed your intervention very much. You're trying to do something when you're near him, let's just say. And then another reflection on the inheritance tax. From a band, remember: the inheritance tax had a strong increase, approximately around the year 2006; then, a modification in 2010 driven by which was then the Councillor of Economy and History, the Lord Antoni Castells. That modification had its full implementation in 2011 because the modification promoted by Councillor Castells was from the summer of 2010. Late in 2010 there were elections there, the government changed; implementation, the fiscal consequences of the reform of Councillor Castells, voted for several of the parties that were then..., some of which have changed their names or are integrated into other organizations, or whatever it is..., voted at that time. That modification meant that the receipts derived from the inheritance tax were smaller than those we have now; not larger, smaller than those we have now – smaller than those we have now. On that occasion, Councillor Castells said something about this: "We have said – two points – that from this moment on it is a tax, that of estates, that only the great fortunes will be paid. That's right, the great heirs. This is the reform that Councillor Castells is pushing at the time. And the portal of Initiative for Catalonia Verds also at that time said that it was a necessary reform, that it was a just reform, that it was a reform that sought broad consensus. That reform, that of 2010, later – the recaptatory effects of which were produced in 2011 and generated fewer resources than at present – was remodeled for an agreement between, then, Convergence and Union and the People's Party. Later, it was re-modified for an agreement on that occasion between Convergence and Union and Republican Left. This last agreement, which is very much in line with the agreement that was established by the majority of the Parliament in 2010, again insists, generates more resources now than the ones that generated the 2011 result of the 2010 reform. Therefore I also insist, as I did yesterday – if we compare all the current data with the maximum data of each aspect at any point in the story, it is obvious that there will always be differences; sure, of course, because at the end a presupposition project, because at the end a presupposition, because at the end a law of measures has to encompass all the wide range, cannot analyze each of the measures separately, together with the rest. Therefore, it seems to me that in this sense it is absolutely logical that we are explaining. I seem to have also answered the interventions of the spokesman of the People's Party and, therefore, I leave it here. José Martí also said: "I have lived in the monster and know his bowels. In the end we all live in the monster of this tax deduction pool, we know the insides. And our will is, obviously, as I said before, correcting it and contributing, through this correction, to a better capacity of economic growth, of reversal and of the generation of jobs in our country, and also to a greater recapitation, fruit of all this, which allows for a better sustainability of our public services, a greater social justice, a better equality of opportunity, which is also the support of growth and future justice. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.244.0	Thank you, Vice President. By the turn of the line, has the word the Lord Antonio Espinosa, of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.245.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. I wanted to get back to the thread of my first speech, because there are some aspects that have remained in my mind and that I think it is worth taking back into account. Look, we're told on the other hand... that there are very few companies. Well, I've talked about capitalization, and it was 300_million of capitalization of those companies and, among them, in the last year only one of them – and I don't want to mention the – has created fifty jobs. But besides that, it turns out that they are medium-sized companies, that is, medium-sized ones, which are precisely the companies that we need most in this country, because it has been clearly shown that the medium-sized companies are the ones that are at the best disposal, together with the large ones. In other words, we should move from small businesses, micro-enterprises, to medium-sized enterprises. And that stimulus that could be this form of financing, along with others, because it does not pretend to be at all exclusive, is the one that we lick and prevent with this deduction or by removing this tax deduction. So, listen, things are important, not only because of the number, but also what political will, what political actions can we have in view of this increasing and of favouring medium-sized enterprises rather than hindering them, right? Good. I, one of the things I haven't been able to say, which I haven't been able to say in the previous one... is the whole subject, for example, of aspects such as tax..., the benefits that do exist and that have been established, right? And that I'd like to highlight. And I'd like to know, for example, the bonus there is in the horizontal ownership constitution on the plots, huh? But only for 2017, who asked for it? Who needs it? Who benefits? Frankly, I would like to make that clear too, because I really do not think it is a question, a very important demand. He could also ask about bonuses in documented legal acts, in connection with the subrogation of mortgage loans from the credit sections of cooperatives. Where is the social cry and urgency of this technical improvement? The bonus in the ITP to the rental of public park homes intended for social rent, why is it limited? Why not, precisely, spread out, huh? No one understands that this is not done precisely for all tenants. We believe that this is a measure which is also confined to a part of the contracts, when it could precisely be extended, and it should certainly be extended, in all respects, right? Well, then I wanted to comment and keep commenting on a subject that was that of the chiringuitos. I am told that the Railway Safety Agency is a consequence or a necessity derived from the European Community. No, no, no. Look at you, you have to say things right. It's not like that, this. Of course, rail safety can be improved, but it does not necessarily create this chiringuito or, let's say, this structure that is part of the will to increase bureaucratically and achieve..., and to have more expenditure. I mean, it really isn't. And then he forgot something that I think is important. That is to say, the number of sanctions – sanctions – imposed in the field, for example, of agriculture. Frankly it is a thing that draws attention and that you have not devoted a single second to it. I'd like to know why – why – the example I've set before; but it's that I could put others to them, I could put why it turns out that now I have a license to exercise..., to have the... Sorry; here I look for a moment... [[Pause.]] Why, for the exercise of the socio-health activity... [[Pause.]] Well, ultimately, to have a credit card now you have to pay, which had never been done. And that fitness card for the exercise, because I don't know... And then – and then – listen, even – what we talked about a few – about the rate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.246.0	Mr. Spiny, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.247.0	...to get something as elementary as we said on the health card. Really nothing – nothing – to say for that, and yet they are measures that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.248.0	Please, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.249.0	...are there contemplated and unexplained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.250.0	Next, the words of Mr Rafel Bruguera, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.251.0	Mr. Junqueras, well, I've tried to raise some great issues, I think it's quite clear. For a band, we have some competitions. We often complain that we don't have resources, that we don't have skills, that we don't have tools to do politics, and what is demonstrated in this Act of measures, therefore, is that really what we have, that it is to be able to address a real tax reform, there is no political will to address them. And, therefore, what's said here and now. And, according to the question, there is a series of very important changes in standards and laws, including the new ones, modifying part of the previous ones and setting them up again, that from our point of view it is not absolutely justified that it is debated in the Presuppositional Law, in the Measurements Law. Mr. Junqueras, you answered me about the empty floors. I didn't talk about the empty floors– there must have been some other doorman, but I didn't talk about the empty floors–, among other reasons because I don't have it all personally, and so I don't want it better, when one thing you don't know. But I did ask him questions like... For example, will the State Law be withdrawn from tourist establishments in order to have a quieter, more relaxed, more detailed debate with the sectors? Are you willing to remove, remove the Law from large commercial establishments in order to be able to do the same? And I'm not asking for it to be extended in time, I'm just saying, "Well, let's go; let's introduce it to you tomorrow, and we're going into debate and we're going into negotiation. I'm done. I think we have..., that you have a..., two problems, that combine, don't you? For one time, the lack of dialyg's will, and, for another, the press. Don't talk to the excuse you're in a hurry; in many things, huh? – in many things. And with them in a hurry, they don't have time to talk. And meanwhile, what is done, therefore, from our point of view, is in many respects imposing normative changes that have not been sufficiently debated, that have not been discussed, that have not been sufficiently discussed, that have not been sufficiently guaranteed of participation and transparency that they would require, as at least some of the questions that we have tried to raise, because they seem to be substantial questions. "You have tabled totally different papers, but they will coincide in the vote. Oh, it's that we don't have any other option; that I'd rather vote differently for the papers in totality. But the Rules of this house say that they will vote together, and so if I want to vote for my own – I will vote for it with great pleasure – and I will vote for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – we would also vote for it with great pleasure – I need to vote for the others, even though I did not like them. So, well, I say the same thing backwards respects you, don't I? I mean, that's obvious. And I just insist – insist – on the two headlines that we want to leave, especially, on the table of this debate. First of all, the fiscal measures that the Government is proposing to the Bill of Measures represent only a 5.3_percent of the expected major total revenues – it seems that I am saying well –; in short, 78; 109_millions, if we put in the sugary beguds. And it does not address what, for us, would be necessary, which is to face a real tax reform that is fairer, more progressive. And we have room, we have skills, and we have opportunities to do so, if there is a political will. And the second, that the Bill of Measures incorporates a real law – it gave it a bit of a joke – troleibus, because it went much further than a law, because it amends a lot of laws, a lot of norms that, frankly – sincerely – and seriously, we believe that they are not sufficiently mature, neither politically nor socially, because they can pass so strange, a bit of amagatosis, of capadillo, in the presuppositions debate that, obviously, face other questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.252.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. Next, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.253.0	Mr. Junqueras, four pinholes of stupefaction and two reflections, in these five minutes. A first point of stupefaction: you do an analysis that has all the benefits and tax reductions that make you enter a little, and, in change, do not make changes – do not make changes – in most of the benefits and tax reductions that make us enter a little, while you do this same analysis of the situation we have about taxation. A _second tip of this congresswoman's stupefaction: in defense they make the tax of beguds stained precisely in the sense that we are being demanded by the WHO. Listen'm, the World Health Organization claims that it is still, as a minimum, a 20_per_cent of the price. They don't get there – they don't get there. A third stupefaction: why do I answer to my colonies? Let me explain to the sector – let me explain to the sector – that, desperate when he saw what was written, without anyone having consulted them, he wrote to us e-mails to the deputies and deputies of this chamber saying: « Look who they have put there. And I look at what it's like to define tourism, and so any of the colonies and activities that are done with young people and children in the colonies can be understood as tourism, and adults – monitors, monitors – that go to these activities have to pay the fee. And one fourth of the stupefaction: Mr. Junqueras, I think that between yesterday and today you spoke, so a couple of hours or so, I remember, I think, to write to the Guinness book, that in these two hours, at a time like the present, with what you are doing, with a wave of fame and with people at the door, you haven't spoken of guaranteed income of citizenship or a single time. [[some applause]] - Not once. Do they want it hard in the end or not? What do you mean? And that's what this law was about – and that's what this law was about. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, but you do – you do. I said two thoughts. Look, you must have so much hope of being the new Democratic Convergence that it obliviously is Republican Left and was in the tripartite. [[some applause]] When certain reports are made, they oblivion that you were in the tripartite. Miri, what we claim in the matter of successions is precisely that we return the tickets of the time of the tripartite to the imposition of successions, to do precisely what they claimed, neither more nor less, than the CUP: that we hold the expenses of the time of the tripartite to social expense. In order to remake the assumptions of the tripartite we need the tickets, like at least the tickets of the tripartite. Moreover, we now have many more social expenses, or at least in different priorities than we had in the time of the tripartite, because we are in other social circumstances. And, therefore, what we ask of them in the reform of successions is precisely to go - in the 440_millions that have entered successions this year, or that will enter this year, at 800, and return to the levels of the tripartite. This is done with a reform of the inheritance tax and not flying pigeons, which is what you do in this law, which, in a year in which it will be a 10_per_cent the entries in the inheritance tax, plant us that for the coming year, and without reform, they will recapitulate a 30_per_cent more, so yes, by magic art. Miri, no, make no pigeons fly: reform of the inheritance tax, not just to enter a 30_per_cent more, but to go -at the entrances of the time of the tripartite. And one last thought. Obviously, from the People's Party they value the proposal in one sense, and from Catalonia Yes, it's Pot fem in another. That's why we call it ideology, that's why we call it ideology, and we're in two extreme opposing ideologies, the People's Party and ourselves. The question is: what ideology do the Project of Presumptions and the Law of Tax Measures of the Government have? So, the one with the Democratic Convergence. And the contradiction is not between the opposition, nor between the speeches that we made the opposition, the contradiction is between the one that said Republican Left and ended up making Republican Left in the government, and between the one that gave the program Joint for the Yes and ended up making Joint for the Yes in this Project of assumptions and in this Law of fiscal measures. The Junts pour le Si programme said: "Effective progressive taxation measures will be promoted to reduce inequalities and promote job creation. And more concretely, they said: "Reducing the income tax comes from the work, especially the lower sections, and simplifying the deductions that currently exist to reduce inequalities. You explain to your voters those who have not voted only by faith, but only by reading the program, that you have completed this in this Law of Presuppositions, in this Law of Tax Measures. I assure you they don't have a clue to explain it. [[remorse of the voice]] – not a given to be able to explain it. They don't do any valiant tax reform. "Deep reform of taxation – give your electoral program –" on the basis of a fair taxation. This is not what you bring us today to vote in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.254.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.255.0	Thank you, President. Briefly, to make some final remarks about the debate, right? The first: now that there is no one left of Convergence, do not say that these are the presuppositions of Convergence, because in Convergence they were..., I was about to say « a little enough Marxists, of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, escort'm– escort'm–, Mr Coscubiela. From Groucho! "I have these principles, but if they don't like them, I have others. And then it was possible to see a Convergence that agreed with the People's Party the practical suppression of the inheritance tax in 2011, and a Convergence that agreed with the Republican Left in 2013 and re-implanted the inheritance tax, because, ultimately, its ideology was a little bit of that one that gave it. And, therefore, this was the first consideration I wanted to make to the counselor: the Castells reform of the estate tax did not come to apply a year ago, because the following modification was in the summer of 2011, with retroactive effects to the 1st generation of 2011. Therefore, the Castells reform did not end up applying in its..., in an exercise. You won't have time, will you? - He won't have time. So, it's kind of hard to value. What we..., take advantage, which I did not say in the other intervention, to say it now: let's argue, once more, for as long as possible– nor shall we say: « Listen to me, before tomorrow eliminate the inheritance tax – to eliminate the inheritance tax and the property tax, for sure, in that Convergence..., where there is no one left – also one day they thought one thing and then the following seconds with which they agree – because we understand that they are taxes that apply double taxation to taxpayers. And, therefore, we understand that we must move towards its elimination, as in many countries of the European Union. First consideration. Second consideration. We told the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy the other day: we already share the fact that tax deductions should have a willingness to encourage certain behaviours, and more so, at certain times. That is to say, we share the fact that, when we are in a situation of real estate or large growth in the real estate sector, you have not felt a deduction for the acquisition of housing, and, in change, you do have it when the construction sector or the real estate sector suffers as it did in the last few years, right? Therefore, we cannot untie tax deductions from the moment they are living and the incentives they want to give. Third element. Mrs Ribas said this – I also did not want to go too far into the subject of sugary beguds –: the tax you apply represents four cents per traditional refreshment launa, four cents per launa for the distributor, which this, to the distributor, yes..., or on the price of the distributor can represent a 7-8_per_cent. At consumer price this ends up being 2-3_per_cent. And that's where we say: "That's inelastic, that's to say, no one will stop buying a refresher because it's worth these four cents more, because it's an irritating amount. Therefore, we are not talking about health. I'm not saying, "Put 'em on a 20_per_cent. I'm not saying this, because when you say to me, "Let's push it a 20_per_cent, then I'll say to you, "Now we're talking about health. Now let's talk to him. I'm saying, "Don't tell me it's for a health issue because it's not, it's for a recap. And two last considerations: to reaffirm our commitment to totality for the arguments we have said regarding fiscal measures, especially the lack of connection between the fiscal measures that are to be promoted and the orientation of the economy that is to be maintained. It makes me think that this economy, for you, went alone, and we, therefore, somehow add to it. I, man, sometimes it is necessary to contribute to the economy of an appropriate fiscal policy. And what we found missing, therefore, is that there are no reforms to the background, as I think everyone has asked. It's true, in different ways; well, let's discuss it. And finally, as you must have noticed, this certainty that there has been a very interesting debate about what it does to fiscal policy, but a very good part of this Law of measures refers to so many other issues that each one, for itself, would certainly require debates, I don't know if it's as intense as we're ending up right now, but it is of similar importance. And, therefore, we ratify our statement to the totality. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.256.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Then, in order to position himself, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.257.0	Bona tarda, President, Vice-President, Councillors and Members of Parliament. It is already public and well-known that the CUP - Call Constituent, as with the Law of Presumptions, today we will vote two votes against the items in total and eight abstentions, and, therefore, what we will do will be to allow the entry to pass the accompanying law. We want to start by highlighting positive things that the accompanying law has, some interesting passages that have been claimed for the CUP, but not only for the CUP, but we understand that for a deep remorse of funds persisting to our society, requests that are from majorities, that they seek to defend the interests of this 96_per_cent that we demand from days, that they are, as a minimum, the additional dispositions 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, in the line of defense of the public school, of shielding of lines and groups to the public, of stopping concerts, of ending the platform of substitutes, or of the nationality of Agües Ter Llobregat. We also want to highlight, that there are not, but that is why it is important, some articles related to the management of salvation that open the presence, or more presence, to private sanitation in public centers, and that Councillor Comín agreed to withdraw from the initial project to our petition. Or the derogation provision 1.25, which repeals the totality of the Catalan Presuppositional Enabling Law, Law 6/2012. The Catalan Law of Stability, our own article 135, a law, another law of shame, austerity, retailing, public sector oppression; a law, and it has already been said, which was approved with seventy-seven votes, the Convergence and Union and the People's Party, which in sum will be repealed at that time, or is proposed to be repealed, in this draft of the accompanying law. For us, it's not a small thing, and we already know that there will be someone who will say that it's merely symbolic, but going over the debate that there was at that time the fact is that we could prove that precisely, of this law, what was criticized then is that it was more restrictive until and all that the same Spanish law. And, therefore, the derogation at this time sends a clear message in favour of a country that is each day more anchored to the left and that every day more cries out for the recovery of the sobrieties. But beyond these positive signs, which are there, we have to say that we are not satisfied with the accompanying law because it does not take the political moment that we think it sees this country, nor the requests that the country is making to us, a little in line with the Law of Presuppositions, such as Eulàlia Regunant's companion said yesterday. We think that they are too much – it was also said – you continued the model that drew the Mas era. It is true that it passes, and in this sense repeats that we recognize it, but it is not enough passes, but we have accepted this time, unlike June, that it goes into processing, because the screenplay is different, because this time, therefore, the screenplay is more treacherous, there is actually a time of process – it was time – with the reference or reference. And above all, also, because we were willing to open this law to debate because the company that is also taking part in it, is taking part in it, and we may be able to build up forces from those points that are important and that from the correlation of forces that we have in the negotiations with Joints for the Yes, so we have little ability to condition, even though with the interventions that are made in this room we recognize a handful of superpowers at the CUP, but it is clear that in the end the project does not incorporate the vast majority of our demands. Because what we're asking for is..., or our demands are in order to improve the living conditions of most people in this country, because we think that only with most people in this country will we get, first, to make the reference, and then win it. And that's why the law of follow-up, above all, for which I should choose, is to transform, to transform this bunch of planet into what we live in and to turn it into a space a little more just, a little more humane and ecologically sustainable. With a bet not so much for this empty word of « economic growth, but above all for a social, economic and political system that revolves around the idea of justice. And that means, as a minimum, two axes: 1, shielding of the strategic public sectors that we have today, but we have that they are underdeveloped, such as sanitation and education, and generating the public sector in areas where we do not have them, such as the primary sector, such as the energy sector, as an area as important as that of cures and dependence, and, more importantly, in this political action, for us it goes on to reduce private management of services, because it is hard to understand that there is a right to benefit from services that are public, and because the most effective and democratic, and the most transparent, public services are allowed in order to take part in the political process. Therefore, we are doing more innovative, transformative, disruptive, pro-active and breaking with this continuum, and we are doing so, at last, with regard to decisions that this Parliament has taken, or that are being taken in the Junts per el Si programme, and that are not reflected in this accompanying law. We will give you an example: the minimum interprofessional wage per thousand euros. It is a decision adopted for this Parliament in Resolution 125.i of the general policy debate. If we can't impose it because we still don't have competition on this issue, as the generality has done in an exemplary way and applied it to the contractors. In this draft law it is proposed measures in relation to public procurement; therefore, we introduce precisely the content of this resolution of the Parliament, of this content of the Junts for the Yes program and of this demand of the Popular Unity Candidature. Because if there is no redistribution of so much economic opulence, there is no fair society. Yesterday the Eulàlia Reguant gave them a volume of our company Search. Jo, to continue this position, I will give you a book by Zygmunt Bauman, which has an explicit title, right? : The wealth of some benefits everyone? This is somehow the question we ask ourselves at the time of the discussion of assumptions, and what Bauman reminds us of is not..., he says: "What is fundamental is not the production of wealth – nor the economic growth in relation to which we go so many times –, "is the distribution of wealth. That's what's essential to deciding that a society is fair. And, therefore, we make it clear: either redistribution or redistribution; or division or division; or community society and we take care of all and take responsibility for all that goes on in our lives and lives and avoid that they end up in the corner, or that's chaos. And that's why we're proposing a follow-up. Among other things, therefore, for example, reduce the salaries of high and possibly government salaries by 19_per_cent in order to make it a citizen's guaranteed income. That would be a measure of pure redistribution. But you don't redistribute this project, or you don't do it enough, and apply ongoing policies also in fiscal policies. Because, beyond indirect taxes, we continue to insist that the wealth of that 4_per_cent that collects more than sixty thousand euros per year in return for work, or that collects more because it no longer directly works and earns much more than sixty thousand euros per year for other lives, you, these privileged 4_per_cent, continue to protect them with this accompanying law. We are aware, and we know it, and we have discussed it many times..., we are clear that the key is in the returns of capital and not in the returns of work, and that we cannot legislate from Catalonia. We are clear that more corporate tax is needed to avoid all tax evasion through screen companies, and this cannot be regulated by Catalonia. It is clear that the key is to punish the tax havens that exist in this European Union, which is presented here as sacrosanct and untouchable but which protects the powerful also creating tax havens in Luxembourg, Ireland, where companies go and so do not tax, generate wealth or resources for public administrations here. You know that. But to be able to criticize all this consistently we need to exhaust the limits of autonomy, and you, with the accompanying law and the regulation of the IRPF continue to work in favor of 4_per_cent and not in favor of 96_per_cent of this society. Like who has the most money and, therefore, push taxes to the richest. And I would say many more things, but I will end with a reflection on what I would like to answer the great amount of absurdities that have been said about the Popular Unity Candidacy and our position during these days. An artist, Valentí Puig, to the newspaper of Grup Prisa de Catalunya, wrote this week, saying: "The object of the UPC is not politics, but anti-politics. And it began to be frequent, on the part of the unionism that rancid of this Parliament, that it qualified itself as anti-system, anti-politics, anti-economics, and even, on some occasions, no? We're thinking the opposite, and it's a paradox, in this sense. We believe that there is no more anti-system conduct than defending the anti-democratic regime of 78 with urps; that there is no more anti-economic conduct than applying neoliberal policies of austerity and adjustments as applied to the troika governments, the European Union and all governments of the declared and undeclared right, and that there is no more anti-political conduct than developing laws and tools that perpetuate inequality, that deport their people and attack the natural environment and the territory we live in. So from the CUP - Cry Constituent we assume paradoxes and contradictions. Aim for politics. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.258.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Then, to answer, has the words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.259.0	Good afternoon to everyone, another time. In his intervention, the Deputy Salellas began by highlighting some aspects that seemed to him to be positive of the proposal for this Law of measures, with the abolition of the Catalan Stabilisation Law; he explained that it was a law that had, in the background, a regulatory mechanism that was even more demanding that the Spanish Stabilisation Law. Indeed, we have never been in favour of either of them. Therefore, it also seems to us that it is opportune, from a legal point of view but also from a political point of view, therefore, to explain this suppression, this elimination, etcetera. It also highlighted some provisions relating, for example, to Aigues Ter Llobregat, to decisions in the health field, etc. Then there is also a reference to what you can see from their point of view is that they are deficiencies, shortcomings, aspects to be improved. Some of us are already... I understand that with the possibility of reaching agreements respecting the best in public contract; there is an effort I think remarkable. In general, the other groups have referred to little, but it seems to me that the Law of Measures provides for a whole series of improvements in the field of public control of contracting measures, reinforcement of intervention, strengthening of control institutions, etc. It seems to me that we are walking in the right sense and, therefore, in the measure that we can culminate, although it is obvious that all the better is always likely to be improved again, so we can walk towards an agreement in this sense. Then it seems to me that you also refer to a sequence of assertions that we share respect for the need to pose, to focus pressure on the returns of capital rather than on the returns of work. Indeed, among other things, we want to build a new state, we want to build a new republic, because we have said many times that responsibility does not make us feel like it, and so much so that responsibility wants us all, and we want to be responsible for all decisions, and we never want to have the opportunity to say: "Look, we would like to do it, but we would not like to do it, but we would like to do it, but we would like to do it, and that is why we have done it, or "we would like to do it, and we have not been able to do it. We want all responsibility, don't we? Effectively in the realm of returns of capital at these times control is a clearly state control, and, in the sense of doubt, it is also a more than justifiable element, which explains and encourages us, therefore, in the construction of this new republic. With regard to questions of fiscal dumping, it seems that they also extend to other forms of dumping beyond the tax sphere, in the social sphere, in the health field, etc. It is one of the great challenges not only of our country, not only of Europe, but of the world as a whole, of fiscal dumping which is done between states, which is done between large economic areas, which is done between, in this case, autonomous communities: also in some cases taking advantage of certain circumstances which are favourable to the political point of view or for the residence of their social enterprises, so they can take decisions in the fiscal field that clearly harms the capacity of the joint of sub-state administrations, or to the whole of the joint of public administrations. Therefore, it passes between European states, it passes between large world economic spaces, it also passes between sub-state administrations, and, to be sure, it is an element that we need to correct. Indeed, I also share the view that the European Union is not in a position – at the moment, at least, and that the experience suggests that in the future – to correct some of these questions. What happens, which also seems to me to be true, and in this I don't know if we agree, probably not –, outside the European Union is probably even harder to correct, because it is decisions in which it is demonstrated that the political arenas in general have tended to become small in order to respond to the great global economic challenges and, therefore, we need very large political spaces in Europe, in order to be able to face the great economic challenges that we have raised, or we have political spaces that are obsoletely large in order to respond to the social needs of our citizens. I therefore share the view that the current European construction model does not adequately respond to these types of questions, on the contrary. We certainly do not share that it seems to me that outside Europe is still more difficult to correct. They are elements in which I understand that we must give signals – I understand – in the decisions that we make, in the speeches that we make, also in the effective decisions, as we want it to be, at least some of us, this future republic, and as we want this republic to have instruments to intervene in these areas and to correct this type of question. And it seems to me that the presupposition proposal and the Bill's proposal for measures that we proposed yesterday and today, respectively, have been framed in this direction. I also accept, as I have accepted before in the interventions of the rest of the groups, that all of them, I say, are right when they say the types are very high and some say the recap is very low. I have tried to explain why this contradiction is apparently produced, this contradiction apparently paradoxical. I have tried to explain precisely that it is not paradoxical, but that it responds to a reality that needs to be corrected. A part of this evil fact overcomes us at this time because it is state law: 90_percent of the deductions that are the source of the tax ruling that does not correspond to the actual recapitation is the decision of the State; that we institutionally– the joint of the Catalan institutions– we are responsible for a 10_percent, and that, from this 10_percent, 80_percent refers to a fiscal figure that I have tried to explain... The account of the recurrence seems to have been explained to you and to you, and to all but a few sensals, acronyms and acronyms, let's say it; if I have neglected some sure that you will forgive me, and that you will transform it into a few words that you will like. And let's say that I'm celebrating it, that I'm celebrating it a lot, and that I'm celebrating it a lot that democracy..., and that by the decision of the citizens in the political spaces is transforming, changing, disappearing, not appearing from us, and that in the end this is the reflection of the will of the citizens, and that I am not very proud that it is this way and very satisfied with the fact that, at least at the moment..., always knowing that some day the decisions we take may not please most of our citizens, but that at least at the moment our positions coincide with the socially majority and politically majority positions, very often the majority of this country, and that with this will and with the will we continue to achieve this goal. Thank you very much. And as long as I no longer respond in the next intervention of the UPC, as I have not done with other groups, thank them for the library enlargement that these days, therefore, I am experiencing watching in this debate, and what sense of doubt the books are a very uplifting element and an estimum to continue to debate widely with all of you. I'm just saying, someone else is getting excited about giving me a book. [[Rialles.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.260.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Next, the words of Mrs Maria Senserrich, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.261.0	Many honorable president, vice president, councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies... I also take advantage to greet the economic team, because we are accompanied by the secretaries and the director general of Tributes. Thank you very much. Well, listen up, and it's been a while, a long time, huh? which we are discussing on this subject, and with very detailed intervention by the Vice-President in principle and with the replies he has made to it, I will save them for the good of all, so surely a time to repeat myself in many of these questions. But I would like to do, for that reason, a little generic analysis to put in context what we are debating. And it is that we have heard from most critical parliamentary groups of all kinds about this accompanying law; all respectable, obviously, but there is a critique of a more general issue, than no content, that allows me to say that I disagree, and I disagree, so, firmly, and I will tell you why. When they complain or deny that this law is "amagatotis", a "sastr calax," "three peoples pass, that they want to legislate by the back door, etc. – they have certainly used many words to define this – first of all I need to remember that this instrument, whether you like it or not, we have all used it as such. And if those groups that present the message to the totality today want to use this argument, for us no problem, it is in their free will to say what they want, but it is still successful because then there will be partial statements that will contribute precisely to the fact that this is, therefore, a calax of tailors. So, we're all responsible for the work we're doing here, we're all responsible for this thing. Yes, I recognize them that we agree that there is no need to make a bust, in the same way that we can't stop using it. It's an instrument we have. We have, there is, there is, it's legal: we have to use it. And that's what we're gonna do here from the start of the process. With this, we in our parliamentary group are aware that reality is searching for its own, and if the law of measures is to help us solve situations that the reality of the day to day, the reality of public administration is to help us to improve, and to be able to give a better service, then obviously, to the citizen and to the institutions, we do not have to make good use of it, and that is what we claim with this law. That is why, as I said, measuring law is an instrument that we have, that we have all used, that we all use to improve, then, within the terms that this law allows and facilitates us. Therefore, above all we want the law of measures, therefore, to be useful and help to improve. Let us remain honest: there are modifications and installations that are necessary to do, essential, we would say. And if our system has – I repeat – this instrument, we can't need it. Is there? The utilitzem. That the procedure is certainly better? So that's not what I'm discussing. It's true, it's all better. But that's not a matter of content, but it's a matter of procedures, and that, so, we may have to analyze it in another debate and evaluate the functioning of this law, because right now it has this procedure, it exists, there's a memory that accompanies this law. We all have a lot of work to do, obviously, but it's our job as deputies and deputies to use it. I also recognize that the diversity of the questions – as some Member has said – that contemplates this law can, therefore, generate this feeling of poti-poti, of many things; nor do I discuss them. But that doesn't mean you're doing bad, years against it. That there's a lot of diversity of questions? That's right. But you're explaining, there's a memory. What do you think there are doubts? , as they have emerged; for example, a question they have said, the issue of prostitution on the road, right? , which was eliminated as a heavy crime. Don't get rid of it: it's been a long time. Therefore, following the debate, I have seen that there are many doubts, we have all seen that there are many doubts, and surely what we need to do is clarify these doubts. Therefore, here we would ask the Economics Department and the Vice-President to help us, the Members and Members, in this task, to clarify these doubts; that, if we do, we would have a meeting all together with the department and measure ourselves to clarify whether we like it or not, but that we would know the exact content of it, because there are doubts that actually, therefore, a copy of it will be said: "Alas! That's it, so I agree. Therefore, the law of measurement is an instrument, as I said, that we do not have to make a good use of, basically to improve the service of the citizens. As my parliamentary group companion said..., Mr. Torrent yesterday told them that these assumptions of 2017 are essential for families in our country. I must tell you, therefore, that this accompanying law is also for families in our country, but also for businesses, also for the same public administration, not only the Generality, but all administrations. I, in short, for whom? For the citizen and the citizen. From Junts for the Yes, although some have presented the message to the totality..., we do not give up the dialogue or the real negotiation. And that's what we're going to do in the parliamentary process; because, as I said, the law of measures is an instrument that needs to improve the lives of citizens and that's what we want to do as Members and Members of Parliament. I will not go into detail, as I have said, of all the questions that the Vice President has explained to us, but it is certain that, for example, you are certainly not against – most groups – that there is a measure to extend the social measures of the water channel in the water bill, implying that this social channel collects..., for the most vulnerable subscribers, who can benefit more than forty_ thousand people. They don't disagree, do they? Nor do they disagree that there is a register of subsidies and public aid because there is more transparency – they do not disagree. So, we talk, we talk: we sit, we talk about all the questions that there are and we clarify all the doubts that I have. Because we want to have a good law for people, which is our responsibility. At this point, when you enter the parliamentary process here, in the chamber, together for the Yes we are willing to speak absolutely of everything: all the items that may be there, all the doubts that you may have; because we can also have, of doubts, it is normal and legitimate. And we want this accompanying law to be an opportunity for people and our country. Actually, now, surely, the easiest... I have about three minutes left and I could, therefore, now begin to "distribute, what would we say, right? Answer up, reply down; in fact, I have so many notes that I would give for half an hour more. But we'll get rid of them; basically, for one thing, maybe because they're the dates they are, and sometimes they have to be a little more realistic and optimistic, and they don't always go counter, and I'd like that, so: don't have to replicate them today. Because we're starting an initiative, a parliamentary process, and I think we need to have consensus, dialogue and negotiation. And that's what I, as the deputy, am going to avoid today – this constant reply – because it's not necessary, today. And, as they say, the movement is shown to be walking; so, we're going to show that we're not going to get into the bargain, we're not going into the destruction, we're going to destroy it, we're going to hate it, we want to build, we want to add, we want this to be a good law, we want it to be the law of all Catalans and Catalans. And, ultimately, because this is our obligation as Members and Members, which is a law of twenty, thirty, god, two hundred articles, is the same. Our job is to read, learn a lot, debate a lot, dialogue a lot. And, look, maybe we'll have duets for vacations, these holiday days, so maybe with a little more humor we'll see it all with better eyes. And if not, from the return, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as I said, the department is at your disposal, the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes is at your disposal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.262.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.263.0	You're the one who's willing to talk, aren't you? You see, this is good, sometimes – not always, but yes. So, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, like the gods, among all of us. Let's hear from the spokespersons of each group who carry this subject that I am available to, and that we hope that we will get a very good law and help the lives of the citizens of this country, to have a better future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.264.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Senserrich. The words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.265.0	I'm sure you all appreciate that the debate can go on for a little longer, don't you? And yesterday... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? Not anymore? Are they tired yet? No, man, no. Regain your strength, take a deep breath and follow; for, in fact, we will have to follow for a few weeks, a few months. And, as a matter of fact, we've got a lot of it. Yesterday I also closed the tower; it seems to me that it is the correspondent, let's tell us. Simply, to thank the intervention of the deputy Senserrich, and to point out..., also to thank the work, seems to me to be an ingenious thing that the people of the council do, that the public workers do, that they do an innovative work, as we have shown enough yesterday and today, that goes more there, sense doubt, of the work that any other public administration does in the creation of these fiscal figures, in the search for new measures, in the struggle against negative externalities in the social, health, in the media, etcetera. So it seems to me that I am looking to please you with this work and remember that, beyond the differences that we may have, more than some of you think that we should go a little further in such a way and some others think that we have spent three peoples in that very aspect – something that we have already tried to put in place in the debate that we have held up until now – more than those differences, which is at stake at these times on the table, where we have the opportunity to approve among all, at least among all those that we want, are 1.170_million euros more in schools, universities, hospitals, primary care centres and the conjunct of social policies, 1.170_million euros more in schools, colleges, universities, hospitals, social welfare centres. And if there is any public administration in the Spanish State that is making an effort to make it seem – in percentage or absolute terms –, surely they will have occasion to explain to us - to us, and to us to replicate them, because we are convinced that we are right when we say that no one is making an effort comparable to what we are all doing to Catalan society. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.266.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. After the debate, in accordance with Rule 114.5 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall proceed to the joint vote of the papers presented in full. The vote begins. As the total votes have been rejected by 61 votes to 64 against and 8 abstentions, the draft law on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures continues to be dealt with. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry on how to achieve more equity in sanitation]] [[302-00090/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on how to achieve more equity in sanitation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Angels Martínez. [[The remorse of the voice persists. Pause.]] Please, I'm in a hurry and I'm quiet. We must continue with the session. The deputy is waiting. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Martinez, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.267.0	Thank you. Thank you very much, President. Counselor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, we continue the inquiry, now in the form of a motion, of a question which I raised, which was only the least part of which I believed, corresponded and deserved the companions and companions of Not to Pass More and all the victims of medical errors and neglects. And I would like to recall at these moments that a great thinker of the 19th century said that a society was only raising problems when it had the opportunity and there were material conditions to solve them. Well, we don't just have the conditions and the possibilities to solve this problem that we were going to start seeing the other day, but I think, moreover, that today in this Parliament we have already begun to do a job that can be used to open doors, to follow the path and to resolve this contradiction, that I have already told you that so much David's good against Goliath, that it was much stronger, much harder, much more dramatic. The basic lines I wanted to say were who – who – to do – as I asked them the other day – what should I do? So, look, starting, we, and we follow the step of what the organizations that started the fight to achieve justice in the issue of medical errors and neglects have taken. We must do it ourselves, the Parliament, the Government, we are asking the House to do it. And it has to be done, too, beyond us, the Congress, and, after all, the Parliament. Because it would be magnificent – and, the Councillor, I am sure you must agree with me – that there is a negotiation at the top, not at the bottom – as unfortunately many times ago the European Parliament – to equate the conditions of all people affected by medical errors and neglect at the highest level of solidarity and civilization that Europe must maintain, preserve and, if possible, still improve. So we have to do all the folds. Second, how do you do it? So, united, as we are, society and politics; we weave webs that somehow vagina destroying that veil of uncertainty that they tell us that we have when we are born, and somehow also fighting this society, certainly bringing to this society the risk and the insolidarity that we are living in. And thirdly, they also create a policy of these little things that, together, create great changes that improve coexistence and protect the most destitute people. In short, this Parliament represents the most people and precisely the people who need it most. It is to say, in conclusion, to open in a pioneering way, as I said the other day, as the institution, a task of recognition in the question, in the problem of medical errors, to relieve pain, uniting the expert of the people who have worked there, with the console and correction of the failures that we have as a market and as a government, and, ultimately, making a Catalonia of more equity. In short, beginning to weave a work that can serve the people who suffer the current situation and seek justice; a pocket, a weaving, a construction that we can all pride ourselves on and that will make our society more dignified, more friendly, with a better coexistence. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.268.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word "Mrs. Mireia Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.269.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, to make amends to the honourable Member of Catalonia Yes, it is possible that age accepted this amendment. I'm grateful, because..., and I'm just glad to talk to him, because he's the only deputies you can fix who talks in Occitan and tells me every cop you see me in passing. And so all the way up, you're going to tell him that we're going to vote, and that's what this is all about. We are voting for the hotel, because it was never a CUP that could oppose the artenher's self-equity in health care, it follows the victims of medical accidents, such as other types of accidents or negligence, which are part of the constant demands we have in the health sector. Now, why don't you be aware of what's going on in this case, because why don't you see that this is what we're comparing and where we're looking for millions. And here we are contrasting right and right Catalan and right Spanish, which basically predicts different terms in what so now prescribes binding actions taken by victims of medical accidents. Hey to say, dealing differently is victims. They limit legal actions in different terms and, consequently, favour those or other parts involved. Eth right of the citizen Spanish and a legal order that in an alert still registered was written literality of the 19th century, and we are in the 21st century – written literality of the 19th century – and foresees a year as a legal term for prescribing legal actions by victims of medical accidents. In contrast to the demand of the bonded text, the Catalan civil right, which fixed age of three years. And it is just that he is a problem: he is better and right Catalan citizen, people who are victims of medical accidents, who are right Spanish citizen, and can't get away from here because everything is from here, then, right? from Madrid. And what cause I am better, and can't worship her to serve. You have to change in the Congress of Members of this Parliament; we do not and we will not oppose, all that we do not have to go to the Congress of Members of this House, and we do not want to have a lot of misgivings, because we think that this is a matter of sovereignty, and that is a question, in concrete terms, of legal sovereignty, is it not? In contrast to the right, it is clear. If we were to remain sovereigns, the Catalan people would remain sovereign, not the aurie with no problems, and we would not have to ask Madrid to claim that it is legally binding for the benefit of the victims of medical negligence that may favor the victims, and not to favour the meths that were previously negligence or assurances. And this demostrous, as in so many other countries – it's the same as a guest, it was "urban masoveria, it was shared custody", that it's a hotel of legal sovereignty that allows two causes. It was her first to adapt eth right to historical time and now reality to the society we live in. It was second to him to create these corsets that are imposed by traditions and privileges. And so, as far as I'm concerned, we can't break down anything but fairness in health care, in that so many victims of medical negligence, so much to a question of class debate, and medical class. Because, if not, there are differences between right-wing equipment and assistance received by victims of medical accidents and not by other victims of other types of accidents, right? , and such a difference between medical and other types of accidents. And it was a serious question: why should negligent methods be overprotected in comparison to other negligent methods? In short, and at the end, as did, we did not oppose the necessary legislative initiatives, a month, a month, we thought it was a solution not to go to seek it was sovereign in Madrid, otherwise to arrest it our madeishi from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.270.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. Next, the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.271.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, to greet, who accompany us today to the rostrum, the members – also there are, at the interpellation session – of the Associazione Que No Passe More. I'd like to thank, too, and take advantage of what I'm doing today in the gallery, the appearance that the members of the association made to the Health Commission, who gave us the opportunity to talk about it, to know it and to discuss everything. I wanted to thank the presentation of the motion, of the resolution, to the company Angels, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, but above all the dialog and the ability to take all the ideas and seek this maximum consent. Promote some legislative changes that basically..., before we talked about sobriety, but basically what we want is to equate ourselves to the legislation of many European countries, to make clear the regulation and to talk, above all, about the accidents that can occur in the development of medical acts; at the end and end, doctors are not infallible. They are under the hypocritical oath, we have great professionals, their faith is the healing and well-being of people, and this is our trust, and our recognition will always be from this rostrum. Now, as in any other activity, healthcare is not risk-free. That's why I would like to distinguish between unintended outcomes, medical accidents or neglects, because I think we're talking in different terms. How the defense of this young man could be done from a legal point of view or from a point of view of salvation, and my group decided, therefore, that it is faith from the perspective of salvation, I will tell you that we are talking about medical accidents. But I'd also like to talk about clinical safety, because I think it's important; it's to say, it also predicts all the actions that can take a long time to reduce the risk of unnecessary harm in healthcare. It's basically, when we discuss this, not to confront doctors and patients, but to donate and equip us with legal and regulatory mechanisms. It is a matter of recognizing victims as they are: victims; of not penalizing them, sometimes, more often than not, which is what they do; of guaranteeing access to all information, transparency, and establishing similarities, as the text also says, as a bad right and assistance, with victims of accidents of other types. But as I would like to talk about this, say, and also of clinical safety... I seem to have said the day we went to the Health Committee: if you go to Google and look for it, and you find a follow-up of lawyers who represent and ensure maximum compensation for accidents or medical negligence. It costs to go through pages until you finally find some magnificent jobs, made for the College of Metges, on clinical safety, where a follow-up of clinical procedures is established that are based on quality and competence. I'm saying, because there are two things that we need to... prevention in clinical safety, and legal security when an accident could have occurred. The thought that my group has presented was that we believe that we do not only believe in the judiciary, but also in promoting mediation and conciliation instruments in relation to accidents in medical practice. We have a good example in the French agency. I think he gave it to me the other day, the counselor, in the interrogation, right? : "Look for these mechanisms. The judicialization and the non-search of alternative mechanisms ends up breaking the evil-methyst trust; let me hide: it ends up enriching insurers, because many times it increases healthcare spending with unnecessary evidence not always free of risk, and I believe that things will also have to be said for their name. That is why I would like to thank the Socialist Group for having accepted the message, in the sense of making this bet for mediation and conciliation, to do so in the framework of a study commission that allows us to see what legislation is applicable here and to other legislative frameworks that need to be, and that can be all: from teachers to affected, health and justice departments, and obviously the two colleges, both the lawyers and the Metges College. Basically, also, making a bet – and this is not in the game, but I am convinced that the counselor will share it – for the continued training of our professionals to improve clinical safety in all our procedures, which, still said step by step, in the conditions they work..., sometimes it is difficult to avoid them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.272.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next, there is the words of Mrs. María Valle, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.273.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Councillor, Members of Parliament and the members of the public accompanying us. A few days ago I listened to the spokesman of the parliamentary group who proposed this motion. I heard him say, in the vote on a motion for a resolution: 'I have a divided colour. Today I am going to say to you in Andalusian: « I have the heart, I parted with this motion. Because it is a motion that has a legal content, but it also has a great health and human background. Our amendments – because we have tabled two amendments – as a paradox of policy seem to be that they are not accepted, but they are actually going to be the only ones that can be carried out. And I'll explain. Junts pel Yes, they have tabled amendments of additions that respected the legality, that they intended, accepting the text of the proposer, to refer to Congress an amendment of state laws. And we were asking ourselves this question, when here comes the parliamentary group that seems to be ruling in Catalonia practice, which as we all know is the UPC, which with the acquiescence also of its governing partners, who are Junts pel Si, present an amendment that, despite its ill-written, seems to be going to be accepted by the proposing party. And with that eagerness to disobey the laws they do not like, and with that omnimod power they have, now it turns out that they, des del Parlament, intend to modify, without following the regulations, the laws of the state. And that means that it is, moreover, nothing less than four state laws that they intend to amend. Of course, in the face of this legal nonsense, and as much as it is passed here, the state law is not really going to change, and the judges are not going to apply it. And we, as I say, are sensitive to this problem, because we also believe that it is a matter that must be dealt with and that it must be dealt with deeply and seriously..., as I say, "I have a heart that is part of it, because as much as it is approved it is a pity that much of this motion is going to be left on wet paper and empty and unfulfilled, because, I say to you, we from our group are sensitive to this problem. That is why we will have to abstain in this part of the motion, as in the second paragraph of the motion, which we will also abstain, because the three-year civil statute is already in force and is binding on the courts. If the Civil Code of Catalonia provides that the limitation period for these – I say in the civil sphere –..., if three years are established, the courts must, logically, comply with it. However, we shall vote in favour of paragraphs 3 and 4. And let's vote in favour, because after watching the video of the association that doesn't happen anymore..., which, by the way, I don't know if you, counselor, have seen it, I recommend you to see it, because it's the only way, I understand, to empathize with the pain of the people who have suffered it. And so I could see how Adri's mother, who I suppose you'll know... To Adri, an eighteen-year-old boy, the doctor told him the night before he died: "We got the hyperventilation machine from the pediatric area. That is, there was no hyperventilation machine in the adult area. The boy died because he didn't connect. That is an example, but there were many others. And the conclusion that is drawn from all this is that much of this problem is the lack of means, the lack of resources, the mistakes that are sometimes not caused by doctors, but are because of the disorganization. And I have to tell you, because I myself have experienced it recently, that public health..., in the public health that is in Catalonia there are excellent doctors, there are professionals of a great category – there are nurses, there are assistants... – who work in difficult conditions, which there is increasing stress among them, who make very long guards, with great pressure. And we also want to make it clear. And I say to you, counselor, do what is within your competence and what you committed to in the pre-motional inquiry. Because you said that you would make concrete proposals and yet in the amendments you have tabled I have not seen any of them. No, there is no specific amendment to which you committed yourself. In addition, put into practice the proposals that we have tabled here in Parliament from our group, which concern improvements to waiting lists and reform of primary care. Get down to the ground where the citizens move – get down. And talk. Speak, but for real. Because you are experts, as well as your colleague the Councillor of Justice, in treading your ground, but from a high point of view. Get down to the ground of the citizens, to the field of the professionals, where they will explain to them what are the real problems that exist, and not on the comfortable chair that, being advisors...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.274.0	Mrs. Valle...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.275.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.276.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.277.0	I'll be right there. The solution – and we will all agree with this problem that brings us here today, and it will be both for patients, as well as for doctors, and even for judges – is not to judicialize health; the solution is to give people who come to public health the place they deserve. And that place is to be a priority for the health of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.278.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Ms. Montserrat Fornells, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.279.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, advisors, deputies, deputies, people of Not to Pass More than they accompany us today, very late everyone. First of all, I would like to express the maximum sensitivity and total support for victims of medical accidents. I would also like to thank the Member who proposed this motion, first of all, for having presented it and for having been able to discuss this problem, and, second, for the good willingness to negotiate and accept the ideas that we have presented to the different political groups in order to reach an enlarged and majority agreement. Last May, at the Health Commission, we were able to listen to the work group that did not pass more – that does not happen more – formed by victims, doctors, fathers, psychologists, lawyers, among others, and who explained their situation, the problems with which they found themselves and the requests to deal with them. The difficulties at the time of reporting and overcoming psychologically everything that has happened to them, the lack of information, the economic costs they have to bear to claim this medical error and the invisibility in the society that victims suffer are some of the main problems, obstacles with which they find themselves. Moreover, there is no legal framework to protect them; as they do, they have other victims, who have specific laws to protect them. Or as many countries of the European Union, with France or Belgium, which have a specific law for medical negligence. The main demand that they claim is the fact that they have a legal framework for regulating medical accidents. In fact, the same association or working group has already commented that this topic..., there are working presenting a bill proposal to different groups of the Congress. From what should be regulated, for example, there is the fact of having specific courts; the fact of drawing up specific rules governing medical accidents; the fact of creating a public body of mediation; or the fact of increasing the deadline for filing complaints, complaints, from one to three years. With this motion, which we shall approve today, we intend to reshape, resolve, to some of these requests, all the while calling for amendments to legal articles that regulate some of the aspects, or requiring the creation of support, cooperation and mediation spaces. For what it does at the first point of the motion, comment that the judicial requirement of liability and compensation for damages arising from medical activities is not excluded from the civil court order, but also from the administrative content. That is why, from the Juntes pour el Si Group, we have submitted a proposal to add two separate parts to point 1, to ask for the amendment of articles of the administrative court – Article 139 of Law 29/1998 – and also of the administrative procedure – Article 67.1 of Law 39/2015 – in order to eliminate judicial costs and increase the statutory requirement for claims of liability to three years. Then we also presented a paper to create protocols and mechanisms for mediation and conflict resolution that may exist in medical practice and to guarantee the rights of patients who are victims of medical accidents. Finally, we accepted the message from the PSC that was headed in the same direction, but that this was more detailed. We see very positive, too, the point being that it is called for to promote cooperation, cooperation and support between the different public administrations, because victims of medical accidents are equated, in rights and rebuttal assistance, with victims of other types of accidents. Throughout the presentation, the Group of Together for Yes will vote in favour of this motion, with the hope that we tend to the fact that medical errors are never produced, but that unfortunately, if they are produced, we guarantee victims and patients the maximum support and have the facilities in the complaint and a quick response to the situation they can declare. Also in the future Catalan Republic we will have work to legislate in this sense and to have a specific legal framework for medical negligence. Many thanks and very late everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.280.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the word "Mrs. Esperanza García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.281.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies. I believe that the key of this young man who presents Catalonia Yes, that he can be in two words, that he has surprised me that the Angels do not make them here today, and that in change you do make them to the inquiry in his moment, that they are patience and justice. I believe that this young man's key is precisely this: patience and justice. We find ourselves with a certain disjunctive, they see the text of the motion with the approved documents, because it is true that there are very many difficulties, in people who are victims of medical negligence, to obtain, in effect, a certain guarantee of protection of rights at the time of, therefore, going to a court, after being victims or with the result of death, or with the result of heavy injuries, after a medical intervention. Now, to say that this is just a reality that is due to the problems these people have with the judicial system, because there is a series of cost taxes and there is a certain amount of strict deadlines for filing or not filing judicial complaints, I think it's a mistake, because it's not just about that. What is important, among which are evidences to believe a medical negligence, are, among other things... – and I am a lawyer and have carried many medical negligences... –, is precisely to prove the causal relationship between what is medical intervention and what is the result, either death or heavy injury. And the problem of costs is true, therefore, that it hinders in time to go to the civil road; but on the criminal road there is no cost. So, it's not a big deal to be able to resort to justice to be repaired, is it? The problem is more in terms of proof. And this young man is really assuming that we are very much in favour of it, but it is true that we will make an effort and try, therefore, with the least that is debated and that we can examine whether there are legal questions that can facilitate, so go to justice and claim these compensations to those who feel victimized and who can prove it, from medical negligence; but there are claims that we cannot share. And we cannot share, first of all, that judicial costs are the clear impediment to claiming compensation for injury. Nor can we share that insurance companies systematically deny the payment of compensation, which lacks is a conviction for being able to pay them. And it is also true that we find ourselves in trouble with... If we open up the apple of stretching and exempting all claims from judicial costs as a result of injury or death, we may open the door to the fact that other negligence..., as it could, therefore, be an administration that does not take care of the maintenance of the roadmen and that there is a death or a heavy injury of a road user; if it also has access to justice without having the risk of losing a claim or a criminal complaint and does not impose the costs on it. I think it's a little dangerous. How dangerous it is to try to translate the terms of our right towards the common right. But, still, I think it's important that, at least, you don't stop the possibility of improving those little legal passages, which is true that you do find the victims of these medical neglects. Why? For what I said before – the key –: patience and justice. We must try to make it easier that this is not a conviction or a judicial pilgrimage and that there is the slightest possible way. Now, if we don't make the effort to change guilt, too, we can assume that sometimes mistakes are made and that this isn't necessarily a professional life sentence, I don't think we're going to make much progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.282.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Ángels Martínez, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.283.0	Well, then, with two minutes I have, naturally aggravate the words of the spokesmen who have spoken; aggravate, however, above all, the work of the people who do not pass More, who also follow today, still, here, our deliberations. And tell them one thing: that it is not the secret of bonhomies or friendly behaviors, but the desire that they have the best tool to follow their work. And the best way to follow his work, as is happening in the assemblies, is that this Parliament, in a majority way, votes in favour of the recognition of his cause; votes in favour of starting to repose it; they have given themselves, of their limitations, and we can go further there. And, somehow, I also hear – and that's what Mrs. Escarp mentioned – that we have also found ourselves here with a language problem, between a legal language and a health language, and perhaps..., or a health recognition. And perhaps what has prevailed, at the time of both questioning and motion, has been more likely to mitigate the effects of medical and health errors. But I would like to say, "Don't worry if it's not well-formulated; don't worry if, perhaps, it's not very accurate the writing of a young man." In this Parliament things have been approved that are certainly better written and are less accurate than what we are approving at these times, and, more importantly, that they have, in this case, better use by the people who are fighting there. Therefore, I would ask you, in a way, that you share this need to understand that one of the things that this Parliament can do, too, is to subsidize them in the form of cost reduction, in the form of unification of time. It is not true that all the courts in Catalonia, despite the fact that the Catalan Civil Code, the appliquin, is applied, and it is not true that there is mediation, or so much good there is mediation. That is why I also welcome, in particular the Socialist Group, the fact that it has accepted the word 'also', because it is only through mediation, but also through political action, with action, in some way, of all the Parliament and all our parliamentary groups, that we can achieve what these people really deserve and improve our society. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.284.0	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.285.0	To request a separate vote on points 3 and 4, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.286.0	Okay. [[Long break.]] They've asked... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] One moment. A separate vote has been requested on points 3 and 4. So... So, we'll vote, if they look good, first... points 3 and 4 can be voted together, Mrs. Garcia? [[Pause.]] No, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? So, we'll vote first, if it looks like it, points 3 and 4, and then we'll vote the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, come on, we'll vote points 3 and 4. The vote begins. Points 3 and 4 were approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on how to achieve more equity in sanitation was adopted by 93 votes in favour, against and 33 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into Emergence Systems]] [[302-00092/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on the Emergency Systems presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord Carles Castillo. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] He asks them to leave in a hurry, please, and in silence, because the deputy is waiting to start. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.287.0	All right, thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. We'll talk about the specific question we asked the other day, which was about the emergency telephone service systems. The other day we told them, we started saying that we have, let's say, another model, but it's true that we're willing to give up one part of this, so to help improve the model that's currently in place, that's the model of trick management. And we pointed out some of the problems that we see and believe that they can, at least, improve on some of their points. In the first place, the problem of subrogation, which involves subrogation in private companies. We were going to say that it is legitimate, naturally, that private companies have as their objective to earn money, but that in these issues, therefore, it must somehow be controlled and ensured the vocation of public service. We also commented – and this is one of our battle horses – on the working conditions, concretely, of the workers and of the workers of 061, who do not have the recognition of the consideration of emergencies and, therefore, do not demand the most emergencies, it is not recognized that they are doing tasks of emergencies, they cannot put it on the curriculum and, even so, let us say it, only that it is painful not to be of the emergencies, because when they have to make a vacancy, such as last week, of teleoperators, therefore, they were warned from the government that they could not wander because they were in a system of emergencies – we were in a matter of emergencies. We are talking about the integration of 061 and the integration of 092, and about solving the confusion that sometimes is given as to the locations, that sometimes they are mistaken of municipalities, etcetera. As for the details and the practicalities in which these problems have been converted, first of all, the motion is considered all the emergence numbers that exist in Catalonia today as a single system of emergences. And we think it's very important. Then, in the departures from the clousules, we propose that the training and job consideration of all workers working on all telephone call numbers is specifically put in place. Similarly, a question that seems quite revolutionary, but that's normal, that's that the working conditions..., at the same job, the conditions are exactly the same; so, that's also posed to the table, as well as the idea of doing an external audit to prove the functioning of 112 in particular, but in general of all the numbers of emergence. Likewise, we propose to the city of Barcelona that we study a new location for the joint command room, given the problems that we currently have. I think it has been a tough negotiation, a tough negotiation, but I think the result of the motion is favorable and, as I say, what it does is to go on the road of improving some of the most important issues that were being misadjusted, as to the telephonic attention of emergencies. We commented, for example, on 061, that it is certain that it is a telephone that gives other medical services. But as for the medical attention of emergencies, we thought that it would have to go – as a minimum, to reach it – towards integration in 112. And we came to the conclusion, agreed with the majority group, that it should remain, 061, for medical questions exclusively, and that for questions of emergencies, therefore, it should be gone – gradually, but without pause – deriving from 112. By 092 there was one. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I, who have been in the joints, understand that it must be done with caution, that it cannot, directly, lose 092 at the joints and pass it to 112, but we must go by solving misadjustments that cause, therefore, let us say, that it is not easy that the joints before 092. We need to get the reason to want to keep this number up, to go integrating it in a way, as dic, gradual. And one of the reasons was, as he already pointed out to the inquiry, that many times it was derived to 112, at specific times, and it was not known which tricks exactly were used by the local police and which were used by Mossos. The motion also calls for the signing of specific protocols with the municipalities and, therefore, that it is concrete in those situations in which it is derived or to the local police or to Mossos d'Esquadra. In short, giving thanks to everyone; then we'll do a little bit with each other's notes, but I think we've all made an effort, all folded up, to get a deal and a good young man. I wanted to comment, on the subject of Ciutadans, that I have given them a little more, but it was for the sake of reaching a general agreement. And we've given up some stuff that I think we'll be able to recover later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.288.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. Next, in order to pronounce on the papers presented, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Cry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.289.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man was enough on the line the sector is asking for, and he was enough on the line, too, of what we proposed. The one that happens, that we've done two kinds of exams, centered on two key ideas. The first is the creation of an autonomous body for the centralized management of emergencies, which is already provided for in Law 9/2007, and which, under our understanding, should absorb 112, and so on..., or so on, should absorb 112, both at the trick level, as well as completing operational coordination, as the law says. In this sense, we have presented a paper to the Law of Presuppositions, but the PSC has not accepted the concrete paper of the young man; it has found a formula with Juntes for the Yes a little less ambitious. We will vote for it because it points to a single management, but we want to go a little further. We also want centralized and public management, and this is the second line of the papers that we have presented. We are betting for the internalisation of all the subcontracted personnel serving at 112, which is a lot and which works under very precarious conditions, as the MP of the PSC has exposed and as the sector has put on the table. In this line, he's accepted a message from us, Congressman Castillo, even though he's decapitated it a little bit. We thought that the government would have the passes to walk towards the internalization of the entire staff, and, in the end, the drafting was over..., the preparation of a viability report to see how to recover the public management of the service. We keep the deal, and we'll vote for it for two reasons. The first, because it is essential – we understand that it is essential – to bet..., that the government bet and walk towards the public management of the maximum number of services – and this too – and, moreover, have the importance that the management of emergencies has. And the other, because we understand that the amount of staff you serve, outsourced, is very different, and that, therefore, the public recovery or public management of this service is not easy, and therefore, we understand that this viability report is positive. As for the feeling of the vote, we will vote for everything that is better at work because the sector is asking for it, and neither have we accepted the ideas that meant that these better jobs in terms of working conditions were only used in the event that public management was not recovered. Still, we'll give it support. We will abstain in everything about municipal participation, not because we do not consider it important, but because we have considered that the writing of the motion is quite vague and that we understand that the seal of municipal participation had been placed more like a seal specifying in which way. Therefore, we shall abstain. And we will vote 'no later on the comparative studies of the rest of the autonomous communities, because the rest of the autonomous communities, precisely, are privately run and there is all the sector in little war, and so... we already know what gives to the rest of the autonomous communities, it gives what we do not like. And, therefore, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.290.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, the words of Mr Lluís Guinó, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.291.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, Members, let me, first of all, make a general reference to the motion and say that the Group of Joints for the Yes presented different points, some of which have been accepted, as the Member will later expose. And, on the other hand, we have also made an effort, it seems to me, among all of us, to deal with all those questions in which we can or can all parliamentary groups agree. There is a first aspect to the concept of the 112 Emergencies System, of its functioning, and we clearly agree that we need to move towards a path of integration, and that in this dynamic of integration what we propose is that 061 and 092, which are two telephones at the disposal of the citizenry in an area of salvation and in a narrow area of local administration, if both administrative structures consider that the most appropriate is to continue to develop the tasks that are not strictly Emergencies, it is clear that they have their competences and local autonomy, and therefore they can continue to develop the issues that they see; they insist, not in the case of Emergencies. Therefore, we also clearly defended an integration of all the issues they have to do with the issue of emergencies. When it is a reference to the departure of clauses that in some way must configure all future contracts of the Government of the Generality, it is obvious that we keep and we have to articulate from what is the basic regulation for what it does to the public contract, and, therefore, we have to complete all the requirements, that in some ways they are already defined in this young man, and that we also see with good eyes, until some are of generic contracting of all public services, and, in other ways, it also refers to very concrete questions that they have to see, for example, with conditions..., the maintenance of working conditions, as previously explained. There is a question that, surely, if we had made the proposal, we would have made it quite different and with a different language, but we have negotiated the questions that they have to do with the participation of local authorities in the whole issue of the emergence system. We defend an active and intense participation of the assemblies in this issue, and even in those changes that need to be made in the articulation of the functioning and operational structure of these services, it is obvious that municipalist entities must also participate. Therefore, these points that refer to the active participation of the joints in the emergencies system and in the operation of this system will also vote in favour. There is another interesting issue that you have to look at from the perspective of public policy evaluation. The 112 service is a system that has to be, from a functional perspective above all, in a continuous evaluation process, and this means making an annual audit, taking into account even the very concrete analysis of the tricks and their impact, and, for another band, also addressing all the issues that they have to do with territory, that are the possibilities of making changes to everything they have to do with the malfunctions that can be produced with a service that is quite complex and more difficult to manage, especially because it is about issues that they have to do with emergencies and issues that affect citizenship very directly and very badly. There is another important issue, which has to do with the signature of congregations with the joints. The department has not signed and is not signing continuously. And, therefore, the whole relationship between the Department of the Interior and the assemblies, and the elaboration of the corresponding operating protocols, are already, at this time, moving forward. The last point – and it is the only point that we will not vote in favour – has to do with a proposal that is already going, in some way, to vote in the Commission d'Interior, which has to do with the command centre. We defend that the Barcelona Assembly and the Department of the Interior agree and expose all the proposals that exist to bring about the improvement and renewal of this area, but certainly what you have to see with the proposal made by the Socialist Party, as a result of a slogan made by Citizens, we would vote against it, because we consider that from a point of view even and all political and operational it is difficult to execute in the short term. In the end, this is a very important service for the country, certainly, it is a strategic service, and what we have defended – and, more importantly, especially we are glad – is that we are able, all parliamentary groups, to carry out and approve a proposal as consensus as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.292.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Guinó. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Giner, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.293.0	Well, it's almost good night to everybody. I think we're talking about Catalonia's Emergence System today, not just 112, and that's important, because it gives us a context view, above all, of an essential structure, or a key, right? , de Catalunya, as you said in Lluís Guinó right now. I think that's how we quickly identify – and we've done it with this young man – the most important issues we've detected in the 112 issue. Second... there are European recommendations that clearly tell us that there must be a single number of emergencies. This is not so, and therefore we must go forward and give passes in this sense. I think this young man, in the end, or the transactions that he sees here have a certain willingness to move forward in this space. Let's hope this is a reality. And if we don't, we'll be here to get back to it, because we think it's a good system in which it's simplified... and we think Catalonia must be on the rise in terms of unifying and improving the 112. There are other points that are also very interesting, and here I will hold a little more. Interesting points..., is the 2nd point of the young lady, which I also saw is a transaction..., well, the 1st point, in this case. Here what we see... there's the speech, always, that managed it private of certain public services is better that managed it publicly, right? This is a speech that true liberals... and this Junqueras, Mr. true liberal, said many times, didn't he? , or he tried to prove it many times, and above all the old Convergence. Actually here... I like it very much and I'm very happy, because it proves that in this case it's not like that; the private management of a service is a failure – it's a failure – not just because the company wants to earn money, but because it's done badly. He didn't take responsibility for the country. And just give an example: if you are looking in the management tool, for example, one has to go to the Hospitallet, probably the first word that comes out of Talamanca. Let's get a little out of the way, huh? , when..., technologically related. And what many workers and workers do is take their own mobile device and look for direction there, so it happens in many public and private establishments. A clear example. After we see that the professional people and who are in charge, say, of many emergencies and have many responsibilities function under convenient telemarqueting, as if say, come vacuum cleaners. Home, we don't think we're a very serious country if in the end what we have is people under convenient telemarqueting carrying the emergences of this country. And, therefore, this does not only cause bad working conditions, but only bad evaluation criteria, which is the most important; there are bad evaluation criteria for the work they are doing and, therefore, causes the staff to be demotivated. A demotivation that would not happen, we say, if we had this integrated system, if we had this system in the public body, for example, where there would be a certain responsibility, a certain motivation of the workers..., when there is a real emergence in Catalonia, introduce yourself to the place of work even though they do not have to work. And that's what our Catalonia Emergence Service should be, and that's why the workers and workers should be motivated, which, under a telemarketing agreement and on conditions and extremes in which they work, normally are not so motivated. So, we need to see what we're doing: we're keeping this model, we're changing... In the end, the deal, you see, it's not bad. Making a viability study we understand that it's complicated and that it has to be done. And we will vote in favour of the total or total practice of the motion, depending on Mr. Castillo's arguments, because we think it goes in the right direction. Whatever we want..., we have brought a determined item to this point of public management or private management to the public service, which is what we want..., where we have said that in the clauses or the departure of conditions is taken into account the enterprises of social economy, where their components have experience in systems of emergence, which is the management of systems of emergence. And why have we done this? We have done this because one thing is that the management of public services is private, and the other thing is that the departures of conditions are made because the multinational winnings or large enterprises, such as Qualytel or Atento, that were directly or indirectly involved in the EREs of Andalusia, for example. So, we prefer that if the same workers self-organize, and want to take control or manage this process, they do not have a penance, but a advantage – because this would cause an extra motivation and in the end it is a advantage – for all the citizens of Catalonia, who see as a system of emergencies..., a system that takes away their workers, that really is, and that if one day they are always there for what you need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.294.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Giner. Next, the words of Mr. Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.295.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, well, this is a motion about emergency systems... and, above all, what I want to do is greet the members of the Association of Teleoperators and Telegestors of Catalonia, who accompany us from the rostrum. It is practically centered, above all, in the Center of Attention and Management of Emergency Tricks, 112 in Catalonia. And I also want to focus especially on this. Celebrate – let us celebrate – that he returns to speak in this Parliament, about the situation of 112, of the service of emergency trick management of Catalonia; a service that, from Ciutadans, we consider to be an essential service and that is fully framed, therefore, as his own name says, in the field of the management of emergencies. And that it may not be in an emergency situation, but we're not sure that it's working with the quality or the conditions that are often said or unravelled. I will not say that this service is precarious, but it is precarious; of course it is precarious, in good measure, for what it does to staff management. And that's why we're celebrating that you're going back to talking, even though the proposed group didn't want to come in, maybe, too hard, because – Mr. Castle said – it's not about the model. But we need to talk about the model, the model for managing emergency ploys, which is part of a system for managing emergencies in accordance with the European guidelines applicable to it, and the same law applicable to 9/2007, 30 July, CAGTU, the Emergency ployment and management centre. And, therefore, we need to talk about the model. We need to talk about the model, and we need to do it, too. But we are before a young woman who is not our young woman; she is not a young woman from Ciutadans. And since it's not ours, we didn't want to go in there, because we'll have occasion, in the parliamentary debate, in the next few months, to go in there again. Therefore, we have had this respect with the proposing group, which has, in a certain way, sought to delimit – I don't know if to limit, but, in any case, delimit – the scope of the debate in this motion. In any case, from the Ciutadans Group we want to make it clear that we must talk about it and that, of course, we are likely to talk about it in this Parliament. Because, I say again, it's an essential service that needs to be improved. And it's not just installation; it's also. And it's not just a question of technological applications or media; it's also a question. And it's not just a question of bidding and subcontracting; it's also a question of subcontracting. And it's not just a question of pre-characterized work, when precisely because of its condition of essential service it should have a special degree of motivation; that it is, too, because we have to bear in mind that the staff in this service are also showing a higher degree of extremes than they would have to bear. It is above all a question of the effectiveness and efficiency of a service, I say again, essential to deal with emergencies and emergencies. Therefore, it is a question of model, of model management of this service. I need to talk to him and I need to do it. And we'll do it soon. We've submitted two papers. One of them in a certain way has fallen, so as not to break the possibility that the idea of what is the hub for the coordination of emergencies in Barcelona is adopted, but we will do more, in order to improve the current facilities at CAGTU, the Hospital. The CAGTU of the Hospitallet has to improve its location, it has to improve its buildings. And in any case, the second question that we have presented to us has been accepted; it has to be seen with an accurate and statistical study, also, on which conditions the service is being provided, and which is compared with other autonomous Spanish communities. In any case, announces, it seems, the majority group of the chamber, that it will not give it support and perhaps not go forward. But we will give support, in its integrity, to the final text of the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.296.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.297.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Castillo, deputies... you bring us a motion that talks about emergency phone call. Obviously, when a citizen calls 112, calls for a medical emergency or a problem of insecurity; therefore, the attention that must be given to him must be rapid in reaction, effective and must give the user security. Therefore, if this service is outsourced, it should be borne in mind that it is not a service for receiving commercial calls, as was said, of telemarketing, and therefore the training to be given must be in accordance with the position it occupies, understanding that the calls are related to the safety and life of the people. And, of course, workers must have the job recognition they deserve. Under these premises, we move on to considerations. One, that the service of 112, recognizing the professionalism of the workers, is an improved service, because it is. And that the unification of emergency phones comes late. On February 14, 2006, it was when the draft law was passed to centralize the 112 emergency calls, as the European directive states, and it turns out that we have been almost eleven years – almost eleven years – still talking about unifying 112. The big problem, what is it? Local cops, 092. Political will on the part of the Government of the Generalitat and of some municipalities has surely been lacking in an attempt to unify 112. And we are very much afraid that 092 will continue to live for many years. We were talking about improving the service, and the motion was talking about trying to do audits to see what the 112 service response was. We understand that this is an appropriate measure, but also that those results would have to be presented to the parliamentary groups, make an assessment of the audit, as well as the groups being able to propose solutions or solutions for improvement. There is one point..., we will give virtually support to the motion, to the whole motion, less to a point where we will abstain, which is when they talk about recovering the function..., or for the public service, the 112 service. We are neither against nor in favour, because we understand that 112, even if it is outsourced, does have to have a part of public oversight. It's an emergency phone, not information to the citizen; it's emergency. And for us, the role of the security forces in 112 is fundamental. For example, the second activity. The second activity police must play a key role in 112 to improve the service of care for the citizen. A second-level police officer has an experience that can't be wasted. And the second activity is a primary role, for us, in 112, to improve service and try to make that service of better quality for citizens. We – I am going to finish – will support, above all, the proposal of the joint room of Mossos d'Esquadra and Guardia Urbana to seek an alternative location in the city of Barcelona, because it coincides precisely with a proposal of the People's Party in the Commission of the Interior – in the last Commission of the Interior – and we understand that there is a potential important public health problem, and it is..., we believe that it is important that from the Government of the Generalitat and the City of Barcelona an attempt is made to find a solution and an alternative to the current room, in which the security forces and the unions are not happy with the service given. We, as I say, will make an exception in point 1a, and the rest of the motion would support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.298.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Lord Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.299.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly; well, to comment... well, in the first place, greet the teleoperators and telemarqueting association, which had just sent them an email to stay behind parties. See, the lady, as I told you, I think she's been pretty smooth; I think she's a good girl. It didn't cost the negotiation; at times, three or four bands. It is true that some of the points may have been decafeinated, as the CUP's partner commented, but I believe that in a negotiation or in a dialog with various parts, therefore, sometimes a_must give up the maximum objective, reduce them a little bit in order to reach an agreement. And it is true that some may have been decapitated, but God does not have the study of viability to try to recover the public management of all the emergency services; to guarantee the formation, on the part of the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, of the workers and workers of this company; to improve the working conditions, which I have said was one of our battle horses – we ensure something so revolutionary that it should be so normal: that, with equal functions and tasks, the same working, social and economic conditions. And as for the local world, so, well, what we said: we practically accepted all Juntes' statements for the Yes, they understand that it was prudent, so, to lower one little bit of expectations, to go more slowly and more in agreement with the local world. He simply wanted to end up giving thanks, in fact, especially to Lluís Guinó, Alberto Villagrasa, Matías Alonso, Mireia Vehí and Joan Giner, for the effort that all the folds have made to be able to reach an agreement. Also to the Adan Faith, of 112, and the Department of Interior in general, because I think that, let's say, the predisposition has been as good as it could be to reach an agreement and get a good young man. So, thank you very much to all of you. And have a good party. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.300.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.301.0	For a separate vote on points 4, 6, 7 and 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.302.0	Okay. Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.303.0	President, for a separate vote on item 1a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-12-21-2702.304.0	Mrs Vehi, points 4, 6, 7 and 10 can be voted together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We can vote together on 4, 6 and 7, and the 10 separately, right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Pause.]] Separate votes have been requested from points 1a; 4, 6 and 7, which can be voted together, and number 10. So, we'll start by voting the 1 bis; then the 4, the 6, the 7; the 10, and the rest of the motion, okay? So, we'll vote on the 1 bis point. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 115 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. Next, we'll vote points 4, 6 and 7. The vote begins. Points 4, 6 and 7 were approved by 115 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 49 votes to 65, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Emergence System Motion was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
