ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.1.0	Good morning. The list of questions to answer in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item of the order of the day of this session. I also remember the delegation of vote which, according to Rule 93 of the Rules, made the deputy Àngels Martínez Castells, of the Gruppo Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, in the spokesman of his group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. And please welcome again to Congresswoman Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, who joined her parliamentary tasks today. And congratulations on your motherhood. [[Greetings.]] Before starting the questions, and answering the request made for the Government, with the agreement of the parliamentary groups, the proposals, as laid down in Article 81.3 of the Rules, altering the order of the oral questions in such a way that the first oral question to the Government, on the policy of regadius, is able to substantiate in the penultimate place of the questions to the Government, that is, before Question No 9, on the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization. Can this alteration be approved with your consent? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the order of oral questions is modified in this sense. [[Asks the Government about the suspension of the law of effective equality of women and men by the Constitutional Court]] [[310-00070/11]] So let us start now with Question No 2, which is Question No 1; Question on the suspension of the law of effective equality of women and men for the Constitutional Court. The question is posed by Ms Montserrat Palau, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.2.0	On the third day, the Constitutional Court, with this unheard-of capacity for work and celerity that it shows later, agreed to the provisional suspension of some articles of three laws approved for this Parliament; three more laws to add to the twenty suspicions between February 2012 and today. From the Law 17/2015, of 21 July, of effective equality of women and men, the court did not suspect articles in the field of work for the execution of a law that advocates the fundamental right of equality between women and men in an effective way in the political, economic, social and cultural spheres, with a specific and singular regulation, according to our brand of competence. It gives the circumstance that this same law was cited by the U.S. Department of State in its report this year as an example of good practices, ensuring that – I quote textually – it emphasizes the fight against sexual harassment and that – I quote again – it establishes equal representation in public administration, co-education in schools, equal plans for large businesses and the prohibition of disclosing sexist content in public media. An approved law, if not for what it does to the suspicious articles, for all – all – the parliamentary groups of this chamber in the previous legislature; a law, moreover, and yet, for these 21st century heights, necessary, because it is aimed at promoting effective equality and the empowerment of women and men, and because – serving me as the precursor of this law – the fundamental right of equal status of women and men constitutes a worthy value for democracy and is an essential necessity in a modern democratic society that wants to eradicate the patriarchal, androcentric and sexist system. In the face of this new intrusion of the central government and the Constitutional Court into the jurisdictional sovereignty of this chamber, what does the government think, what does it value in doing and what does it intend to do, honourable councillor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.4.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, you referred to a law that was approved, effectively, for unanimity in many of your contents. This already indicates that she has been very hard-working for parliamentary groups, who have sought consensus, and the Government has done so and has heard that she was an excellent tool to fight against the many inequalities that still affect women in the joint venture of our society. And everyone knows that an environment where these inequalities are even more obvious and crueler is the world of work; this shows the data, both quantitative – employment or labour rate – as qualitative, when we look at wages, promotion and career difficulties, precariousness in contracting and also unequal distribution in the different sectors of activity. Already from the Treaty of Rome of 57, the Charter of the Fundamental Rights of the European Union..., establish the obligation to ensure equality between women and men in all spheres, especially in the field of occupation. Therefore, the hardest part is that these articles, which are suspected by the Constitutional Court to the institutions of the People's Party Government, allow a coherent and comprehensive approach to achieve these principles. I am referring to the perspective of gender, which, as you know very well, is recommended as the strategy of work at European and international level; a strategy of gender that the law establishes that is to be observed in collective bargaining, at the time of contemplating the dispatches of employment regulation, in the matter of prevention of occupational risks... Therefore, a suspension that affects this ability to what, like government and also in the realm of social and economic agents, we have to fight against inequalities. But for what it does to the government's understanding, honourable Member, I am already advancing it that, despite all the strings to the wheels that we can find with these challenges, in any matter, but especially in such a sensitive one and that it generates a very important political and social consensus, we will continue working to give answer to a genuine social problem; we will therefore keep the effects of this law, and, colze a colze with the Department of Labour Relations, also with the Council of Labour Relations, where the unions and employers' entities are present, we will work because it is maintaining, insists, these effects; therefore, because the suspension decreed does not cancel at all the capacity that we continue to break down, on the basis of our cooperation, we will continue to prevent this from happening. Therefore, we keep the pulse to fight against inequality in the world of work, regardless of this suspension.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the impetus of local world activity and territorial competitiveness]] [[310-00071/11]] He asked the Government about the impetus of the activity and territorial competitiveness of the local world. The question is posed by Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.6.0	Thank you, Madam President. It will advise, well, the assemblies and the assembly of local authorities, such as public administrations that are better suited to the people, to the citizenry, know with more detail what are the first needs, problems, demands and difficulties of our fellow citizens. The economic crisis has caused extremes in all spheres, but also, in a special way, numerous assemblies of our country, as it happens..., without mattering neither the size nor its territorial scope; some consistories that have seen themselves in difficult political terms that allow them to recover their local finances, create occupation or boost economic activity. In fact, the healing of local finances has conditioned the short and medium-term strategies of many municipalities, and standards or laws like LRSAL have occupied time and bureaucratic cursecaps that force the joints to an asphyxiating day-to-day. That's why when we talk about boosting economic activity, we say it from being able to do it as important as economic promotion, but productive, that means associated with innovation, sustainable growth of the territory, under criteria of social, economic and territorial cohesion; that is, associated economic promotion and enterprise..., network work and with supra-municipal alliances. This parliamentary group is not aware, of the economic situation of the Generalitat, and, moreover, is aware of the premeditated intent of the Spanish Government through dishonor and usurpation of FLA, which has conditioned and conditioned the government's policy, that more than 95_percent of its entries are controlled by the Spanish Government. Although this situation, she will advise, from the country's assemblies we need the government to make an effort and contribute in the way it goes and that it can take measures or programs that allow us to help drive actions that can restore economic activity and competitiveness lost before other territories of the State. For all this, he will advise, throughout the presentation, I would like to explain to us what the Government intends to do to boost the territorial activity and competitiveness of the local world and, if it can, if it can explain to us any concrete measure in this area with particular attention to the name PETT, which are the programmes of specialisation and territorial competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, the impulse of the local world is one of the main challenges, obviously, of our department. And the new call for the EGTCs marks a clear goal in this sense: to help local authorities to boost and transform their economy. Specialisation and territorial competitiveness projects must be strategically aligned with what Feder and RIS3CAT are, therefore. The calls..., in the call, concretely, this year, we will allocate 50_million euros to projects of high added value and which must serve to significantly increase the competitiveness of our municipalities and our districts. We are talking, therefore, about transformational projects in the territory and this logically requires a history and an in-depth analysis, in order to link these projects with dynamism, the economy and the business world, and, therefore, to provide innovative elements in the technological field. To what, therefore, are these EUR 50 million announced for concrete purposes? So, to projects linked to research, technological development and innovation; to access to information and communication technologies; also to the competitiveness of peppers; to a low carbon economy in any sector; to the protection of the environment. And for all this, therefore, the gatherings, the local councils, also the delegations, but also, therefore, the private entities without work, the research centres, the innovation operators and other entities in the public sector and representing the social fabric, have time until September 5th in order to be able to present their requests and projects. Therefore, we are aware that it is a call that will not reach all municipalities, but we also know, and we know from experience, that it has a multiplier effect, more than important, on the economy of the local world. Therefore, Mr. Member, this call, together with the rest of the area of the Feder, facilitates a total of 95_million euros in the local world that sense of doubt will, therefore, benefit the country's side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the relationship of the urban model with social cohesion and environmental sustainability]] [[310-00072/11]] He asked the Government about the relationship of the urban model to social cohesion and environmental sustainability. The question is posed by Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, these days you and other members of your department have participated in New York at the global meeting of the local and regional leaders' working group to prepare the Habitat III summit of the United Nations, on "living and sustainable urban development", which will be held in the city of Quito between October 17th and 20th. The objective of the Habitat III conference is to strengthen the global commitment to sustainable urbanization in order to implement a new urban agenda, and in this sense the conference is at the heart of the contributions of member states, as well as civil society organisations, regional and local governments and academic institutions; it is, in other words, a very cross-sectional view of the concept of urbanism, which we believe must be so because it is more rich than that, and placing the emphasis on the social scope of urbanism, placing at the centre of any action by public authorities people. The construction of the city, not only in its literal sense, but also metaphorical, takes meaning when we think models that people think, in social cohesion, in friendly cities. Urbanism is one of the political tools with the greatest capacity for social transformation, and in this country, we have had no good examples, some of them more successful than others. This putting people at the center of urban development policies goes hand in hand, but it does so in a sustainable way. And, in any case, we believe that the new urban agenda is a good opportunity, at the global level, because we also draw some conclusions at the national level. We believe that having a few barrels and cities where quality public spaces are guaranteed, not only from the point of view of construction, but especially from social cohesion..., this country is also pioneers, and we have a clear example in the Barley..., but that we understand that there is work left to do; it was a good tool at the time, that it started, but that we understand that its work has not finished and that, in any case, the examples we have have had enough. We also think that it is time to complete planning in those areas where it has not been done, because it is important that operators can have a model, which the country can define this model. And sometimes we need to rethink this model taking into account the principles that allow us to achieve social justice, and that the model is defined among all the agents involved, because it is a guarantee of greater democratization, it is a guarantee that we have a more stable system and not constant changes. We believe that we need to rethink the model of the extended city, which we have already done in this country, in a certain way, and that, therefore, we must restore the harmful effects. Let me give you some data: the city web occupies approximately 2_percent of the Earth's surface, but, despite this, it accounts for 60_percent of the world's energy consumption, generates 70_percent of the emission...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.11.0	Mr. Blood, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.12.0	Anyway, I'll get to the question... thank you, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.13.0	I have a hard time... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] I see you've done a lot of things to me, huh? [[Rialles.]] Reply the councillor, Mr Josep Rull, councillor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.14.0	Many thanks – many thanks –, President. Thank you, Congressman. In effect, these three last four days have developed this assembly of the local world and subnational spheres to the United Nations, in the mark of the Habitat III summit. One first thing I would like to highlight: who is leading this summit, who as secretary, directly chosen for the Secretary General of United Nations, is a català, it's Joan Clos. And I want to value the leadership you are exercising, which is extraordinary; and, therefore, there are elements of pride in country, which seems to me to be good for this Parliament to have knowledge of, to have important knowledge of. There are important Catalans who have a role to play in the context of the United Nations. You explained very well: the transformative capacity that urbanism has, and the transformative capacity that cities also have, well managed, well oriented. In fact, in the most immediate times what you refer to: creating opportunities, generating jobs, guaranteeing access to housing..., good urban planning, good territorial planning is absolutely decisive. And at this summit, what we wanted to explain is the Catalan model, which, in a very good sense, helps us to move forward with what model of cities we want: cities that are compact and complex in their uses and functions; that are polycentric, with the proper density to generate these activities, to boost the economy, to generate jobs; that guarantees access to a decent habitat and, above all, that allows us to cope with the great challenges that humanity has in the environment. To a very good extent, the climate change front, the great environmental fronts from a point of view of sanitation, of waste management, with some well managed cities, we can successfully reacquire them. And we also took advantage of our participation in this summit to explain that Catalonia has a parliament with a democratically chosen majority that says we need more tools to serve the people, that we want to serve the people better and better and that in these countries there is a majority that has decided that the best instrument to do so is to have a good state and an independent state. This has been our contribution to this United Nations summit. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about fiscal policy in relation to 2016 assumptions]] [[310-00065/11]] He asks the government about fiscal policy in relation to the 2016 assumptions. The question is posed by Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.16.0	Thank you, Madam President. Excuse me for interrupting your hydromassage session, I'm sorry. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Vice President, could you explain to us what your government's policy is in relation to the taxation of the IRPF, the property tax, the inheritance tax and the green taxation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.17.0	Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.18.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mr President, as you know and we have said since the month of generation, at the end of May the government will approve the presupposition proposal, it will lead Parliament to the beginning of June, it will vote in this Parliament in July. The Government..., the presupposition proposal that will be approved at the end of May, is to say, a few days from now, to hear us, will not include changes in fiscal policy, in the presupposition proposal, or in the accompanying law. Obviously – obviously – this is perfectly compatible with the fact that, in the parliamentary process, therefore, we listen to the proposals coming from all the groups. And, in this sense, also, remember that this Parliament in the plenary against the poor approved for the vast majority to entrust to the Department of Economy and History the study of possible alternative scenes. And, therefore, what we will do is to put these studies and these contributions to the service of questions, proposals, questions, suggestions that groups make to us in respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.19.0	Thank you, Vice President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.20.0	Mr. Vice-President, you two weeks ago they staged, staged some of the government's supposed stings, which seem to have no other purpose than to take care of the respective customers in front of June 26th, because you, in fact, have done it is to present a preliminary draft of fiscal measures that you say nothing about, because they claim that the opposition groups are following their fiscal policy. So, well, Catalonia Yes, that is Pot reiterates the offer to agree a reform of the IRPF's tax, of estates, of assets, of green taxation, which increases the fiscal capacity of our country and, at the same time, also makes a tax system less unjust and more progressive. But, of course, Mr Puigdemont says that, for that matter, the Catalans pay a lot of taxes; so, "the Catalans, all of them in a bag, as if Catalonia were the only society in the world without social classes. Right, Mr Puigdemont, there are some Catalans who pay a lot for the services they receive, for example, all those people who have poverty pensions and that their government, with a measure of co-sponsorship of the systems of dependence, forces them to provide a quantity that is a real expropriation of their scarce resources. This is a situation of clear injustice that could be attempted from reforms in this sense. But you do not; you continue as always, because, in the end – in the end – from this point of view, you pretend that we do not know that there is a problem here between social classes. Because there are powerful, Spanish, yes, but Catalans also, who continue to pay no taxes and are denied, moreover, repeatedly, to increase their fiscal contribution; powerful Catalans and Spanishs with concrete names, who have built the Spanish fiscal policy, which is said Pujol, it is said But, it is said Homs, it is said Puigdemont; a fiscal policy, (you see) yes, which has helped to make our tax system, Spanish and Catalan, one of the deadliest and most unfair of the European Union. So, well, this is the lifelong fiscal policy of Catalonia's Democratic Convergence; and it seems that you are willing to continue to apply it, sir..., Junqueras [[remorse of the voice]] Mr. Puigdemont. Mr. Junqueras, do you think you're going to continue or are you going to change this tax policy? And, please, more than answering us, say something: will this elephant-sized flu be eaten? Of course you have a chance, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.21.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.22.0	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.23.0	...has run out of time. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.24.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, as you can imagine, this kind of provocations and references to influenzaes, elephants, etc., do not alter the good animum of this councillor and this vice president. So, listen, our position is clear. We will bring a proposal to Parliament, a proposal that does not include new fiscal measures either in one direction or another, we will listen to what Parliament wants to tell us and we know that the majority parliaments in this Parliament are sometimes changing. Listen, we, the whole world's interest in listening to all the proposals that are being made and trying to embrace them in the best possible way. It is true that our country is making a remarkable fiscal effort. The joint venture of our company makes a remarkable fiscal effort, in many cases clearly situated above the middle of the Spanish State – clearly. It is also true that this distribution is always likely to be improved – okay – and that the criteria around this can be diverse and varied – we will see it in the debate of assumptions and we will see it in the debate of fiscal monitoring of these assumptions. And, I insist, I am delighted to listen to the proposals that are being made; I am delighted to respond, with the maximum amount of data that we have and that we can provide, and therefore I am sure that the relative pressure represented by the asset tax is different at these times, which represents the inheritance tax in relation to which Catalonia..., and to the middle of the Spanish State, etc. Therefore, there are notable differences here between. There are differences in the field of income distribution, undoubtedly; therefore, I insist, in this Parliament and in this Parliament a few days from now, we will have occasion to debate a proposal that will be approved by the Government, perhaps even in a few days. Let's debate it and talk to it. We always know – you already know – that you are well prepared to listen to him and to accept his suggestions, whenever technically feasible and whenever there is a majority that supports him; if not, then it cannot be; if there is not a majority that supports what you defend, then we will have to build it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.25.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about airport policy]] [[310-00067/11]] Ask the Government about airport policy. The question is posed by Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.26.0	Thank you, President. We would like to ask you, Mr. Counselor, for an assessment of the situation and plans for the future of the Government in relation to the Catalonia airport system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. Answers counsel Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. They could go... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.29.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.30.0	Yeah? Come on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.31.0	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.32.0	Perfect. Still – still – haven't I started, eh, Mr. Deputy? [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you, Madam President. Give me a minute. The value we make is that we have a good system, a good network, but if we can manage it from Catalonia, they make strategic decisions from Catalonia, this network, obviously, would be unstoppable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.34.0	Thank you, President. Actually, oh, surprise! , this question was related to the insistent requests to transfer to the Generalitat of the airports, as if it were a panacea and when precisely the airports of Reus and Barcelona begin to grow more. But before asking for transfers out of the way to analyze what was the role of the Government of Catalonia in managing the two airports it has in competition. In the case of Lleida we can speak of stagnation; stagnation that contrasts, precisely, with airports that started badly, that were rightly criticized, as is the case of Castelló, but that turns out that in the two last exercises – and this is not explained – it has had some spectacular results with the new leadership of Javier Moliner, president of the Diputació. In the case of the other airport, Andorra - the Seu, its master plan sets out 26 million euros of investments for the future, but it turns out that the same director already advances that 80 per cent of the economic impact of this investment will not be for Catalonia, but will be for Andorra. In short, I will not be cruel to this Andorran tendency of your government. But above all, the jewel of the crown was Spanair, which was defined, rejected, with great expressions, delusions of grandeur, a predecessor of his spoke of "state structures, model of international success, the world looks at us. So much so that the world looks at us! : 600_million euros of drilling. I'm not saying, I'm saying a court ruling. A commission of inquiry light, where no one took any political responsibility, did not give any convincing explanation, nor apologize, nor explain where public money was going to stop. Summarizing his mess: he managed Lleida better, he managed Andorran to His, cosmic drilling to Spanair... I will not be, Mr. Counsellor, who denies them all the virtues of this world, but it is obvious that God did not cry them out on the way to airport management. [[Rialles.]] As a result, they co-operate with AENA in the already established jails, manage better the airports that are of their competence and, before giving lessons and asking for transfers, give convincing explanations of where they went to stop the public money of Spanair. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.36.0	Thank you, President. A lot of adjectives come to me to qualify his intervention, perhaps bold? That is to say, coming here someone, in this Parliament, and talking like the model of success of the airport of Castelló, listen, means that the feeling of shame... [[Greetings.]] He felt... Remember, from there: "Grandfather's airport? So, it's exactly that, it's antithesis.... Listen, prudence – prudence. Mirin, the Reus airport and Girona airport are basically operating at these moments for the ingenious effort of the Catalan institutions, through advertising and marketing agreements. The 90_percent of the commercial activity of Girona airport is based on these agreements to which the Catalan institutions, the Government of Catalonia and the Parliament, and 99_percent to Reus arrive. So, listen, AENA's model is a model, basically, that gets a lot of revenue from Catalan airports, a lot of revenue from Barcelona airport. There are benefits, before taxes, the airport of Barcelona, of some 340_million euros; the airport of Madrid, 27_million euros; it is basically for this for which AENA serves. And you're talking about Lleida airport and Seu airport. Miri, Lleida airport, in concrete terms, has more than thirteen airports in AENA, than you have. Don't make a move so we can take our own decisions in all spheres. And your airport, exactly the same, is ahead of seven airports of these that you put in AENA's value. This centralist model, centralizer, this is a model that does not generate prosperity and benefit Catalonia. So let's stop thinking about these vaporous things that make so many files on the side of the government of Catalonia in the sense that [[Funnel veils]] to be able to make the decisions that interest and correspond to this country. And the feeling of shame keeps the moon small, as at least, when I intervene in this Parliament. Thank you, gentlemen... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about fiscal policy]] [[310-00068/11]] Ask the Government about fiscal policy. The question is posed by Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.38.0	Thank you, President. Let's see if the second one's won. According to information published in recent days, we want to know what the Government is going to do with the IRPF. It is a very easy and very direct question, and I ask it because it depends on who speaks in the Government, if Mrs Munté does it with fiscal events as she said yesterday, if Mr Puigdemont does it or if you do it, Mr Councillor Junqueras, because they do not agree and say one thing and the opposite. And it is that all the governments of the world, absolutely all the governments of the world, have a fiscal proposal, and that is not delegated to a parliament, but it is led. And we would like to know, please, your position on the IRPF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.40.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I guess the popular saying says it's the third, huh? What's the payoff? Now you'll have a third chance. Listen, our position is clear, we have repeated it on many occasions, I know it's hard to explain it again because I understand that most people have probably already heard it in the first or second place; but, in any case, it is: the government will approve a presuppositional proposal at the end of May, it will take it to this Parliament, this Parliament will make a debate in June and it will approve it in July. The proposal that the Government is bringing and that it will approve in the next few days is a proposal that does not present any alteration in the tax field with respect to which we presented last year. Therefore, there is no proposal for a tax change on assumptions or accompanying law. Obviously, this does not go so far as to say that if this Parliament, with the majorities that it is defined, considers that they must have changed them..., listen, this Government will listen to the proposals and attend to them in the best possible way. And, in this sense, also, as you know, as far as this Parliament has entrusted us, by a very large majority, with providing data when it comes to tomorrow and in the debate on budgetary policy it is the best of occasions, so we would provide the data we have respect for the suggestions made by the groups and that none of the same government. And let's say that coalition governments or monocolors can have opinions – I'd just miss it – as I'm sure it happens in all possible areas. And in any case, this is a government that, despite all the evils, which you have to be many, but precisely this still deserves the most, so we are able to agree, which you have not yet managed to agree with anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.41.0	Thank you, Vice President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.42.0	Consider the political situation, Mr Junqueras, because we have just reached an agreement. A few days ago we reached an agreement with the Socialist Party. You have to be responsible and face the face – you have to be responsible and face the face – because the differences between Convergence and Esquerra, that do not cost us money to all Catalans and the middle class of Catalonia... You are not a government, you are a sum of seats, and governing is not just adding seats, it is having a project. It's having a government project and also having a tax project. Less independent road maps, which in that you are a specialist, and more road maps for the working middle class of this country. That you, from Esquerra and the CUP, want to raise taxes is not news. In Catalonia we already know its trajectory, we do know it; I see that ours does not know it. In any case, what surprises me is that from Convergence – from Convergence – you want to raise taxes even more to the middle and working class. Do you know what's going on? That the easy thing in a government is to make cuts, the easy thing is to raise taxes. Do you know how hard it is? – Do you know how hard it is? – The difficult thing is to suppress political chiringuitos. Do you know how hard it is? The hard thing is to get rid of structures that are useless. Do you know how hard it is? To end up with trusting charges, and where you too are quite expert. Do you know how hard it is? To put an end to corruption. To end corruption and fight tax fraud. That's much lower than you're doing. Frankly, Mr. Junqueras, do not count on us... – and we already tell you this – do not count on us to raise taxes to the middle and working class, to the class that pays taxes, to the class that pays a payroll every day and that rises up to raise this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.44.0	Thank you, President, thank you, Member. You are aware that many of the initiatives in the fiscal sphere that this Parliament has held have ended as they have ended up in the hands of the Spanish Government and the Constitutional Court, as well as many that have held an extensive support in this Parliament. He said that, saying... I don't know, he might consider me distressed, but when he says he doesn't count on us, I don't know why he already had the feeling that we can't count on you; so he didn't surprise me. And another and final reflection: if the per capita income in Catalonia is around 25,000 euros, surely you are in the position that 100,000 euros does not represent the middle. And I'm sure if... [[Funnel veils]] No, let me talk, that's all, let me talk. And so, listen, it's simply a question of making numbers; we'll have a chance to make them, we'll have a parliamentary debate, sure, very interesting with contributions from all the groups, And, therefore, we will have occasion to respond and bring...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.45.0	Vice President, I know it's hard but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.46.0	...turn it around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.47.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the property policy]] [[310-00069/11]] Ask the Government about the property policy. The question is posed by Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.48.0	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President and Counsellor of Economics, since 2008, successive governments of the Generalitat have been doing what everyone knows cannot be done: "Sell the house and go to lloger. That gathers, as you well know, a Catalan saying of great wisdom. And they have done it in the worst years, they have done it in a few years in which the real estate market was sunk and the executive has been forced to lower the price of the properties to even a 21_per_cent precisely to find buyer. These years have left flagrant cases of bad business. Look, I'm going to point out to you only two: the sale of the Conselleria of the headquarters of the Territori or the emblematic House Burés were sold for 52 and 18_million when they cost 60 and 26. But unfortunately, Mr. Counsellor, these two are not the only cases. The truth is that all the buildings have been sold badly, their sale has not even been used to alleviate the deficit minimally and the costs of rent and buy-back will be enormous and, in the background, only some private sector will have benefited – only they will have benefited. Those who have taken a cut out of this situation are the large European funds, which have taken advantage of what? The urgency and weakness of the partners of the Catalan administration to break down public buildings auctions. Between 2008 and 2015, the Generalitat has sold 45 properties for the pirtric amount of 600_million, lowering the price of most of them and at the worst time on the real estate market. Counselor, we want to know if the government intends to pursue its ruinous policy of selling public assets. We want to know if you will resume the failed sales operations of Torre Muñoz del Passeig de Gràcia, the headquarters of Empleo de la calle Sepúlveda or the headquarters of the Barcelona Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.50.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. In fact, fundamentally in agreement with the Diagnosis that it does in the sense of expressing its concern for the deficit situation of the public administrations, also of the Government of Catalonia for the debt situation, for the difficulties of the period that we have gone through and that, to a large extent, we continue to go through. Therefore, in all this, absolutely agreeable. And that sure that the sale of assets in a context of low real estate prices, therefore, has consequences that sure we would have wanted to get away from it, another thing is what margins there were to get away from it, etcetera. So, to a large extent, I agree with the diagnosis he makes. We probably won't agree that he led us to suffer these symptoms. From our point of view, it is obvious that the great problems of deficit faced by public administrations in the context of the Spanish State – autonomous communities, assemblies, etc., the same Spanish Government – are the main responsibility of those who make the great decisions in fiscal policy, distribution of the floor of the deficit, etc., which in this case is the Government of the PP, the Ministry of History, etc., and who know that they can end, perhaps, with a fine per part of the European Commission, perhaps, of 2,000_million euros. Therefore, the situation is of enormous complexity, sense of doubt, absolutely agreeable. What will the Government of the Government of Catalonia do in its own months? So, as long as the sale of assets, we share it with you, it cannot be an indefinite solution to solve the problems of ordinary entry, because from our point of view it is a policy that at these times is over, our will and our work at this time is focused on inventorying in the best possible way what is the heritage that the Government of Catalonia has at its disposal and who are the requests for public use on behalf of the joint administration to find the best we link between the availabilities that we have and the requests that we have. This does not mean that there may be some exchange or some sale, some exchange with other public administrations, some so that it is at these times over, that it does not have an immediate utility. Finally, we should concentrate on the efficiency plan in expenditure and, therefore, on the concentration of services in buildings, large buildings, the case of the Free Zone, which allow for a reduction, a reduction in maintenance costs, services, cleanness, security, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.51.0	Thank you, Vice President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.52.0	He has not answered me with certainty as to whether he thinks or not, but well, we would be glad that the Government of the Generalitat did not repeat operations such as selling the Tax Agency building for 25_millions and agreeing to pay 41_millions for its rent in the next twenty-one years, and later moving the units to the Free Zone. Mr Vice President and Counsellor of Economics, from Citizens we ask you that the Generalitat do not continue to do the business of Roberto and the goats that have done so far with the sale of the public patrimony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.53.0	Vice President, you've got three seconds. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.54.0	As I said, that's how we're going to do it, and anyway, Robert's and the goat's business has made it the joint of the Spanish citizens with the financing system that has decided on the great Spanish political parties.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.55.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Rialles and some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about the regadius policy]] [[310-00064/11]] Ask the government about the rigadius policy. Asks the question Mrs. Mireia Boya, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.56.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The pages of the High-Urgell Regiment Community, which are known as the "kingdoms of the Tarrega Canal", have seen how the pressures of the Regiment Community of the Garrigues Segarra and, above all, the inaction of its council have caused the past April 21st to be cut the water sub-administration for the region for this community of kings, all of which and have the authority of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, which has, of course, dictated precautionary measures to ensure the rule and that these pages did not lose production, which its council has not done. I remind you that Segarra-Garrigues is a macro-infrastructure of high distribution that has had huge costs, that is caught in the shadow of corruption and that its community of rulers wants to control the water trade to put at a heavy expense for many small pages that have no other way than either to lease their land or to sell it to the big producers because they cannot pay the obligatory investments to adapt to the rule system that is being abolished. You, Counselor, expressed the will to establish a negotiation between the parties involved to allow you to find a solution to the supply at the top of the Segarra-Garrigues. And the question, even though I already know the answer, is what management has been done to prevent the size of sub-administration at high, and as the answer is cap, I would like to know which management has expected from now on to ensure the sub-administration to the regants of the channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The word "Mrs Meritxell Serret", Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.58.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, and I very much appreciate the question because, certainly, the answer to your question is not, in any way. From this council, from the first moment on, we made managements, we made a proposal, when this conflict took many years and never made any proposal, and we made a proposal, which was... in principle, well seen across all sides, both the community of the channel and the community of the Segarra-Garrigues, as well as Aigues del Segarra - Garrigues, and, unfortunately, it was the same community of the channel that rejected our proposal. And, therefore, it is now in the hands of the same community of the channel that the conflict can be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.60.0	Since last Saturday, we know that you are more busy looking for regants for the Xerta-Sénia channel than to solve the critical situation of the regants of the Urgell channel, and now you need the spring regs, which ensure the production of the entire year. In fact, the Xerta-Sénia also needs us regants to make itself profitable, and looking for pages that pay, that change their installations, but at the moment they make sure that this will not have effects even on the Hebrew channel, they do not make sure that they will not have any undue pressure on water, as with the Segarra-Garrigues, and do not make sure that one more time the water is not converted into a controlled negotiation for some lobbies where little matter is the small page or the environmental consequences on the Hebrew river. The question is: how can you ensure that situations like those of the small regents of the Tàrrega Canalet are not repeated in the Xerta-Sénia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.62.0	Thank you, President. Member, the truth is that, around the politics of regadius of this council, we are carrying a double. First, a clear bet for regadiu, because it's strategic for the future of this country. Just remember that the 28_percent of the useful agrarian surface is in irrigated, but generates 70_percent of the final agrarian production. Therefore, it is a clear bet for the future and for the sustainability of the country in two ways: the theme of our ability to adapt to climate change, and, then, also, for the same accessibility to food; but, moreover, it is also the best political, regative and modernizing it, to ensure the full ecological integrity of our rivers. For what he does to politics with us, we are pushing a policy based on everything you say; it is to say, in the possibility that the little regents who wish to bet on it make a good follow-up. In fact, if there are no 70_percent of adherent regents, we don't throw it away. And that's not great, but it's the little ones. And, in addition, we make a clear bet, betting also with public money: in plans of improvement we have put up 13_million euros, until 2020 we will put in 30_million euros, of explicit support to the regents, but it is that, in addition, in the same works in the regadius we are betting more than 22_million euros annually. And, in the measure that we are still able to continue with this line – which will obviously come to the capacity to approve certain assumptions and to the capacity, also, to build this country, which allows us to have sufficient resources, from now on and forward – we will be able to consolidate both a work such as that of the Xerta-Sénia, as, above all, that of the Segarra-Garrigues, which, for the time being, we already carry more than 12,000 hectares, 2018, with all the female compensatory measures, more than 20,000, and we expect to reach 68,000, which are actually manageable, of the Segarra-Garrigues, and which will promote development...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.63.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.64.0	...of our territories. Thank you – thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.65.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization]] [[310-00066/11]] Ask the Government about the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization. The question is posed by Mr Rafel Bruguera, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.66.0	Madam President... Mr. Councillor Vila, the Consortium's model for Linguistic Normalization is at risk, due, in principle, to presuppositional detailing, staff reduction and job insecurity. But, in parallel to this situation, a new branch, the former general secretary of the department, worked at the consortium. We understand that this place of work is, in the first place, unnecessary, by duplicating the pocket inherent in the manager, and, in the second place, disproportionate. His son is twice as high as the consortium's management. This contract is opaque, arbitrary and immoral, and it was done without transparency. That is why we ask you, Mr. Counsellor, that in your parliamentary office you give us the appropriate explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr Santi Vila, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.68.0	Many thanks; very good morning, very honorable President. Illustrated Member, this is a question not for what you say, but for which you imply it is absolutely improbable of your group and of yourself. And I'm not going to answer it in the words that you would deserve because you know perfectly well that we are talking about a person of a vast professional career, who has a place in the Public Administration won in ownership, and that, therefore, does not alter in anything what is the combination of the template at these times, in the case of the Language Policy Consortium. It is more, I can assure you well – and you know it, because this information is public and absolutely transparent – that we have not altered the assumption to make it possible for a person, I insist, at these times to find himself in the Department of Culture, therefore, through a convenient framework that links the consortium to the department, it has been possible to incorporate, with one executive function, which, moreover, allows the reorganization and depreciation of two places and the reformulation of another. Therefore, honourable Member, there is no major presupposition, nor is there any opacity in this appointment, nor do we incorporate anyone from outside, because he is a person, I insist, that only by education, since he is a lady, I will not tell him the very long trajectory that brings to the Department of Culture, in any case, a career of more than thirty years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.70.0	Yes, thank you, President. In any case, we do not doubt in absolute terms the value of this person – in absolute terms. Look, last year the Department of Culture approved the modification of the statutes of certain consortia, among which it occupies. This provision says, for example, that the consortium staff must be determined in the template and the relationship of work places. So, look, yesterday, still, I went into the web page and into the consortium's organizational chart that work place isn't there. Secondly, it is also specified that the selection of staff must be made through public call, according to the principles of equality, publicity, merit and ability. So, well, that place of work doesn't complete any of these requests and, besides, the contract hasn't been published in the official journal, violating the rules in the field of transparency. And, finally, it concludes that the salaries of the consortium staff cannot, in any case, exceed those established at equivalent work places. In this case, the self established is that of the secretary general of the department, the one previously occupied by this person, with a responsibility in the consortium, obviously much lower than the secretary general of the whole department. We don't know how to see it, Mr. Counselor, as far as proportionality is concerned. And what we're afraid of, and some information we have in this sense, is that we're probably not talking about one case at a time, but this high-level policy has happened in other departments, as the unions are already denouncing. Our group will, of course, ask for explanations. But in any case, for the reasons I have indicated to you, Mr. Counselor, we ask you to rectify this contract of employment by work or service that we consider, I repeat, opaque, arbitrary and immoral. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.72.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I insist: we are talking about a rearrangement and not about an increase in staffing, which has a zero cost. And it is absolutely false that you have an economic remuneration as you indicate, comparable to a secretary general. The remuneration is also the first, also, of a managerial function, of coordination and of services resources, which in this case affects a consortium that is the eighth of the forty-five consortia that the Generalitat of Catalonia has, the eighth most important in the name of workers, in presupposition. Therefore, I believe that, in these circumstances, it was absolutely justified, I insist, that a person who has an accredited public career as a public servant, with a place in ownership, attached to the Department of Culture, who after having exercised for many years also functions of technical and political trust, can exercise a paper, in this case, bearing in mind, that all the consortia institutions involved in the consortium, both in the local world and in the Diputación de Girona, which also in part, like the same Government, that it is necessary to pay, to reorient to continue to attend to their mission, which, inguany, has reached seventy thousand students. Therefore, in the end, we believe that there is all the objective and transparency of its own and necessary function of these technical and political confidences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the political position of the Government with regard to the situation in the Basque Country]] [[317-00045/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mrs Anna Gabriel, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.74.0	Yes; hello, good morning. President, Members, as you know, today we visit the Parliament a delegation of politicians from the Basque Country, belonging to the Euskal Herria Bildu formation, a formation created in the past days. The visit, too, as you know, is captivated by our company Arnaldo Otegi. It has generated, this visit, a lot of anticipation, also many displays of solidarity and support, and it is also true that some criticisms and manifestations of disapproval. If we are left in these behind, in the criticisms and in the disapprovals, we add that they come from the band, from the hand of those who have never distinguished themselves in order to want a resolution to the political conflict in the Basque Country; in fact, neither the Basque Country nor the political conflict in place. So, and taking into account the political situation in the Basque Country – which, as we know, is not the same as it was a few years ago – this attitude of reprobation is especially difficult, it is even harder to remain in this position. Once the International Conference of Pau, of Aliete, and once the unilateral cessation of ETA's armed activity, in our view, laid the groundwork for a peaceful and democratic resolution to the conflict. Also, the Government of the Spanish State, as we know, responds with a logic of paralysis: the Government is refusing to respect the right of the Basque people to decide on their future; the Government is also refusing to address those urgent aspects that require the human rights; it is saying, changes in prison policy, recognition and reparation of all victims– of all victims–, and also definite disarmament and ETA's effect. Bearing in mind that we think that the foundations of the new republic should be based on a new culture of pau and we believe that our country can be a referent in a new way of hearing the geopolitics of the Mediterranean and the world..., Mr President, have you thought of maintaining from the Generality some kind of position against the political situation generated in the Basque Country? Do you think, do you share with us, that we must take advantage of this unique opportunity for the cock? Do you think we can place the state government that changes its position and looks forward to the future instead of staying anchored in the past? He knows that this attitude is to look at the future, to look at human rights, to stand at the side of the right to self-determination, and to end the pain, the suffering and injustice. Ongi etorri, Arnaldo Otegi. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.76.0	Good morning, Madam President. Madam Member, the subject of the situation in the Basque Country is, fortunately, very different from what we have known for decades. And, therefore, we must not all rejoice and we must appreciate the efforts that people make, not everyone, because this process of pau, as is everyone's interest, is consolidated and we can guarantee that it is a true obsession of all democrats, starting with the Basque government itself, that it is coexistence in Basque. A cohabitation that has been many years – many years – threatened, at risk, for the expression of the violence. And, in this sense, let me say that, in fact, Catalonia believes that it can bring knowledge and compromise into what you say in the culture of pau, because we have never moved from here and because it does not move from here I believe that it is an example for all countries seeking recognition of their political process. The Basque Government is doing a commendable job that deserves the support of the Catalan Government and the Parliament, if I may. It is a work that Councillor Urkullu, with whom I have had occasion to speak just about this subject, is moving from the idea of consolidating the plan of peace and coexistence; a plan of peace and coexistence, which, as you surely know, is also part of a package of measures, measures that go in the direction of what is memory and past, what is the situation of the present and what is, above all, the future, what is education in values. And so it is that, because this is done, we can talk about a definitive consolidation of the process of peace and coexistence in Euskadi, which is given as a minimum three circumstances that you have stated: that there is a verifiable disarmament, and that it is not just Basque actors, but state and international actors – there must be a verifiable disarmament – there must be a recognition of the damage caused to the victims, without matter, and there must be, in effect, a modification of the prison policy of the Spanish State, so that it should begin, from the beginning, to the completion of what says the same State of Gernika – from the beginning, to the beginning of the administration. Therefore, if these three elements are not produced, we would be concerned that this Euskadi process of peace and coexistence may not be consolidated. But as this is a determination of the government and of the Basque society, the people of Catalonia, I believe that in their conjunction, it is precisely at the expense of those who want coexistence and want democracy in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.77.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about Arnaldo Otegi's visit to Parliament]] [[317-00048/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García Albiol, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.78.0	Thank you. Mr President, two meetings will take place just over an hour from now in this Parliament. One, and invited for a representative of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, will come the leader of the terrorist gang ETA, Otegi, responsible for killing more than fifty Catalans, among many children; an ETA leader who has not asked for forgiveness and who, as he has manifested, is politically responsible for the activity of ETA. And a second met where we would be the People's Party with the victims and relatives of the victims of those who have been murdered by the band that was leading, among others, Otegi. How do you appreciate, Mr President, that a Member of your group has addressed this invitation? How do you appreciate, Mr President, that the President of Parliament, the second institution of Catalonia, has this individual?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.79.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.80.0	Yeah. Thank you very much. Mr. MP, I think you know perfectly well that the invitation for political representatives to appear in this Parliament was not attended by a member of a group that does not exist in this chamber: Convergence and Union does not have a parliamentary group. I remind you if you have anything to say to you that's said « Junts per el Sí. And, besides, what the person you're referring to did is complete his obligations as chairman of a committee, to which a parliamentary group, legally and perfectly democratic, and as represented as you..., went on this committee to meet someone who has the whole right of the world to appear there. Second of all, it seems to me that he is mistaken about a control session, because I thought it was a control session for the President of the Government, not the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.81.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.82.0	Mr President, if a Member of my group took this invitation to me, I would be ashamed of myself, I can assure you. And in this matter there are no equidistances. On this subject there are some who are the victims, who are the murderers, and some who are only suffering, huh? They're the terrorists. And I want to make it very clear..., taking advantage of Mrs. Gabriel..., that there was no political conflict in the Basque Country. What's happened is the murder of innocent people. [[Some applause.]] Mr President, today, Parliament must surely see this person as the act of major indignity that has taken place in his parliament. And I'm worried about the indifference of the President of the Generality. That the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia opens the doors of Parliament to this person is an act of cruelty to victims and an insult to decent Catalans, whether independent or not. And I would also like to highlight them to what point the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia has arrived. You are tired of repeating that you have come, many of you, to independence because of the Government of Spain. I ask you: have they also come to open the doors and embrace with all the Otegi honors because of the Government of Spain, Mr Puigdemont? Is that the motive, too? And one last petition I would like to mention: since your group will finally meet with this person, with this individual, as at least, ask him to plead and ask for forgiveness for all victims, and especially for the fifty Catalans murdered, among the many children. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.83.0	Mr. García, you've run out of time. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.84.0	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President. My honourable Member, I would ask you to express yourself as delicately as this has been respected. Because you let go of a veil of suspicion about the ethical compromise of the government and parliament, and of the Catalan society, which I do not admit. This is inadmissible. And you, with your insinuation, making an improper appropriation of the pain of the victims, which are very diverse, today you have not done a service to the people you claim to defend. You served yourself in an election campaign. [[Applauds in a hemicicle sector.]] And I don't admit that. And it seems to me, Mr Albiol, that using the idea, or insinuating, that this Parliament, that this Government, or that its President, are accomplices or connives with terrorism and its assassinations..., that is inadmissible. Because in the trajectory of this Parliament, of the government and of the parties that have formed, all without exception, there is an impeccably democratic traceability from its foundation, from the foundation of political parties, which not all political parties can say the same. [[Some applause.]] Second question – second question. You speak that it is an act of major indignity in your parliament against what is a political representative. Okay? I remind you that your government and the PSOE government were meeting with those who killed, with ETA, to try to find an agreement, to try to dialogue with them. They did, and they recognized him. And it's more: Mr. Aznar said something that we won't stop remembering - there, he said: "In absence of violence you can talk about everything. Well, there's no violence now, and it seems to me that they must agree with that. But can you talk about everything, Mr. Albiol? [[Applauds in a hemicicle sector.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.85.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about disagreements in the government about tax policy]] [[317-00046/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.86.0	Thank you very much, President. I had another question prepared, but the statements of your vice president have upset me. Then I would like to ask you the following question: President, do you agree with your Vice-President and his intermittent insinuations of a possible more progressive fiscal policy? Or are you more likely to agree with Ciutadans' fiscal philosophy? Because it is true that with one government and the others they share parliamentary groups in the European Union, in the European Parliament. So, you, who will have to finally arbitrate your government's decision, your fiscal policy, can you tell us where it is?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.88.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, I really appreciate the question, because it's easy for me to ask. If the tria is this, and it could be another, the tria is always, obviously, the Vice President of the Government, with whom we have absolute coincidence in what we approve and what this Government formulates and will formulate in the Parliament of Catalonia, as it could not be in any other way. And I hope that didn't surprise him. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.89.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.90.0	So I hope that this cohesion is manifest in the proposal they make to us, because we carry a week of authentic vodevil for which he makes statements about fiscal policy. It looked like those comedies of embolisms that, between some of them carrying and getting old, you don't know if one is emboldened with one or with another, but in the end ends up ruling the order and each with its own pair. We fear that this is the case – we fear that this is the case – that in the end we are ahead of a theatricalization to finally have some continuist assumptions. We have made a proposal and we insist. I think you should be worried, because Mr. Junqueras has told us that here they could confiscate or constitute majorities around certain policies. Okay. We have not made any progress in tax matters, in the IRPF, in the taxation of estates, in green taxes, in the line that other social entities and movements have made. The unions were talking to you yesterday in the same voice. I don't know if Mr. Junqueras is willing to train most of us for a more distributive fiscal policy, but in this case, what would be at stake is his government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.92.0	Mr. Rabell, you must have some moral authority to talk about "voodovils, after your group did not have one, nor two, but three, different attempts to lead. Do you believe that a government has the right to submit a tax proposal through the accompanying law? Yeah, right? And do you deserve any attention, that, or any respect? I suppose so. And, therefore, from what the government presents to Parliament we will make a debate, a debate in which you will be surprised by the coincidences that we have, and this will bother you, because you will see that there are policies, that there are initiatives, that are enough in line with what you think, but that perhaps aesthetic reasons you will not get to vote with the government. Because speaking of green taxation, you must also know what Councilman Rull has explained more than once. Speaking of progressivity, we agree here. Now, does this have to mask the real fund debate that this country has to have on its objective taxation? Is it to say, some of the fiscal measures that are proposed, or that you propose, that would be serious if we had a correct, just, up-to-date financing system? I'm sure you don't. So, it's just that we always carry over the spaces of all the contributors the injustices of an expired financing system, because more than two years ago it had been reviewed, and that it was already at its origin unfair, because it doesn't recognize the burden of responsibility and competence that this government has? That's unfair. And this is the fund debate, because, in the fund, touch up or down points gives us a sifra, which you know, of certain euros. But the structural deficit that this country has because of a bad financing system will not catch it or push all the taxes of the world. And here's where we're gonna have to end up discussing the real bone spring for once, let's just say. The problem is this. Do we agree here or not? And we'll see about that. And we'll see if we say to the premise, or we pay to the premise, things that we know – that we know – that with this financing system we can't finance out of the way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.93.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about fiscal policy and disagreements in the government in this and other matters]] [[317-00047/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I am afraid I will insist on this, but I will certainly do so with a different focus. It is true that we have seen, this week, the discrepancy – I already say, legitimate, normal in many governments – over tax policy approaches. And it seems – and that is what I would like to be confirmed – that they have finally decided to settle it on the basis of not incorporating new taxation elements into the presuppositional project, but knowing that the UPC will be untangled in this agreement. Is that right, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.96.0	In the first part of his statement, yes, that's right. There will be no follow-up to your accompanying law. I« not in the second part, because here will not untie the CUP. I'm hard to tell you: who's going to break up is Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.97.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.98.0	President, don't know them hard, that you disembark the Parliament. What I hope is that Parliament's resolutions are complete, as, for example, when it is said that there are no P3 lines to the Lower Llobregat, and that, therefore, the sobriety of the chamber was always – always – at first place. [[Some applause.]] But what I wanted to tell you about this question is that other differences have occurred in the case of his government. We've had differences about the concert to schools that secrete by sex; we've had, it seems, also, some difference about how to address the issue of the art dispute we have with Aragó, and we've also had evidence of differences in the project of the Village and Salou Recreation and Tourism Centre, and I don't know if I'm leaving anyone. And speaking of this later, to me that there are differences in the government I am not overly concerned, less that it is transferred to the action of the government, less that there are differences that can harm the conjunction of Catalan citizenship. And in this context, and speaking of the difference about the Recreation and Tourism Centre in Vila-seca and Salou, I would like to know whether they have already resolved whether the consultation will be done in the municipal sphere, as you proposed, or whether it will be done in all of Catalonia, as the Vice-President proposed, and what has been the action of his Government to push this project, because it does the effect that if we announce it, if there is any hesitation, if there is a change of position, if there is no momentum on the part of the Government, we risk losing an important reversal that would suppose the creation of the round of seven thousand places of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.100.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, you said a few things, all scattered, because you started talking about the resolutions of Parliament and the P3 lines and ended up talking about Barcelona World. Okay. With regard to the lines of P3, I hope that the concern is not only those of Baix Llobregat, because there are some other places where this debate has arisen. I'm just saying that. [[Widow's remorse.]] And on Parliament's resolutions that must be scrupulously completed, I remember one, quite solemnly, which I hope also demanded its compliment, which is that of 9 November. With regard to Barcelona World – with regard to Barcelona World – you should not read exactly what I said. I never spoke, in any case, of a municipal consultation; this was left open. And we introduced the element of consultation when it seemed that there could be no other possibility of moving forward than this, but quickly, through the internal and ingenious work of the Government, the permanent dialogue with all sectors – all, not just some, all sectors – of the territory, with the same stakeholders in the project, this Government has gone very far and well. It's more, you know, the people who need to know about the territory, worried about how you and me because this project doesn't go down, but they're also worried about the project being viable. And these years later the government's effort – which I insist has been immeasurable and intense – has been destined to achieve cohesion around a much more sustainable and viable model, a permanent dialogue with all the actors involved, to ensure that we are more close than at the end..., more so, say, than at the beginning, of the solution. And if that's the case, then the consultation won't work, because we've come to a good deal of work that we can get away with and that, therefore, can guarantee that, at least for what it does to the work of the government and what it does to the work of the public actors involved, this is a project that's kept and that's on the table in terms of what we'll end up determining. And I hope that when that's the case, when you can see – that I think you know them a little – the details of some of the work we've done, we can count on, as we've always done on this subject, with the support of your political group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the possible call of elections to Parliament in the next few months]] [[317-00044/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.102.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in the past few weeks, internal differences have become even more manifest in the case of your government and the fever of the parliamentary agreement with the UPCs. The situation is such that even many Catalans and Catalans begin to think about the possibility of a new election at a later date. Can you, as President of the Generality, guarantee in your parliamentary office that there will be no elections in the next few months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.104.0	I can't guarantee it, 'cause there's gonna be some June 26th. And, therefore, I don't know if you will make me guilty, let's say, here in your parliamentary office, if I say to you now: "There will be no elections in perspective for the proper months, because there will be some, and they have not exceeded us in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.105.0	Thank you, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, we're in your parliament and not the comedy club. You understood me perfectly. [[Some applause.]] And this way I don't miss the negit that they have so many Catalans for the political situation in Catalonia, because you know that. And I'll tell you something else. In the past few years we have been able to prove one very important thing: since you, like Convergence, have been betting for independence every time you have fewer discounts, every day less to the Government of the Generality; you have ceased to be decisive to all of Spain, as you have done many years ago, and, moreover, have given up defending the interests of Catalans before the Government of Spain to benefit Catalans. And what's more important than anything: since you've been betting for independence, in Catalonia every day more than the CUP and Republican Left of Catalonia, and every time we're in a situation of instability and uncertainty. And I think that's what Convergence voters are worried about, too, not just all Catalans. And that's what you know; that's why you're trying to rent a little face to your party, that's a lot of fun for Mr. But, and we have a lot of sense that you're trying to serve the legitimate illusion of a lot of people with independence to gain time to refer to your party, which would be a genuine irresponsibility. We'll tell you something. While you are on the path of uncertainty, instability, giving the key of fiscal, tax, economic and social policy in Catalonia to the CUPs and the Republican Left, we are betting because Catalonia is governments of the political centrality, which you have long since abandoned this centrality; we are betting, moreover, because the Catalans continue to drive the reforms of all Spain as we have always been, and, more so, we are betting because Catalonia may have been disabled, serious and legally secure to solve the problems. We bet on this path; you know it, you're a long way from it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.107.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.108.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madame Arrimadas, there is a government in Catalonia that makes decisions; they will not please you, but make decisions. Catalonia has a parliament that has a political majority, an absolute majority, in favour of which is the main political project of this country, there is; it will not please it, but there is. And so things in Catalonia work, they go in a direction that you don't like – and I admit it – but here it works. But you say that here you have disabled it, that here you have denied it because of the political situation. Ostres, then, how did he describe what happened to Spain? The disbanded Parliament, ruling in functions that do not work, have to repeat elections because they have been, their parties, unable to agree, and this does not generate any political negity. Home, I think that, when you talk about political and grade negitates and take the negitate, the negitate at these times in Spain has already cut off all the sutures. And, fix's, you say: « From the moment that Convergence... I see you very concerned about Convergence. « At the time that Convergence has aspired to create a state of your own you have ceased to be decisive to all of Spain. Says: "What a coincidence. When this happens to the Spanish Convergence it cannot make government, for the first time in its history. And the day that Catalan politics decides to emancipate itself and become sovereign from the point of view of its decisions and no longer contribute to the crossover of the Spanish governments, of all colors, what a coincidence that, when this happens, Spain does not get caught up and must reconvene elections. And, finally, man, so badly they don't have to go about things. When I look at this Parliament... it's not like I've been there many years, but I had come as a journalist to cover it; it's the first time in history that there's an absolute independenceist majority. So much on the sidelines of society we are not; sooner I would say – I would say – that we are right on the centre of this country. And, perhaps, to you, this... – let them try to focus – they would someday discover that what it takes them to finish centering is also embracing the proper state. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.109.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the foreign policy of the Government]] [[317-00049/11]] Ask the President about the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.110.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, there is no doubt that external action must be, for Juntes per el Si, one of the priorities of this legislature. It has to be for many reasons: first, in order to be able to explain, therefore, the process that he saw in this country, the democratic mandate that he has of 27 September, and because we have all the determination to become, to build, to culminate..., to be an independent country. But it is also, therefore, because with an economy as internationalized as Catalan it is necessary that the Government does everything possible to help both in the field of exports – which is a non-stop – as well as in attracting foreign investment, here in Catalonia, because that means boosting the economy, and boosting the economy means jobs, which is, in short, finding work, what everyone wants. Therefore, in this legislature, as in ever, external action must be a priority. We have seen, quite rightly, that since the beginning of the legislature, the same president, the same vice president, of course Councilman Romeva, but also other advisers, therefore, have a very active international agenda. We've seen, therefore, this weekend's head, the same Councilman Rull, who himself referred to it, right? But, as always, when it is a priority for Catalonia, it is a priority for the State to fight it. That is to say, if Catalonia has a high priority through the ballot box and a majority in parliament, what does the Spanish State do? So, try to fight her. And on the subject of external action, we, the appreciation that in fact is that the performance of the State begins to be grotesque. That's the comedy club, and, in some ways, quite delusional. I think they're good at that phrase that they don't know about first, then they're laughing, then they attack you, but then it's when you win, right? Because a lot of gossip about the President's or the Vice-President's or the Councillor's journeys, here and there, but this has come to an end that the Spanish State has had to use the embassies to do a menu of Mortadelo and Philemon, to pursue, therefore, the action of the different Councillors who are going to foreign, or to target special ambassadors, so much so that they say that it is an internal issue, to try to explain, therefore, why everything that is happening in Catalonia needs to be combated. But I insist, more than that, in an absolutely grotesque and delusional way, don't I? In the face of this attack, what we want to ask the government is what is its determination and what is its capture in relation to the government's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.112.0	Thank you, Madam President. As I explained the day they asked me about the consequences of the Council's suspension..., this government would continue to take external action and continue to drive its international policy. And the proof is that in the last few weeks, I myself, the Romeva Councillor, the Vice-President, the Baiget Councillor, the Rull Councillor, we have been turning for different rights of the world to where they do not only have an interest in us, but they have an interest in listening to us, and certainly to where they ask many questions. And, therefore, in this sense, we will continue to push – if so, to push back – efforts to project Catalonia to the world. Because that gives results. If they want to talk about the foreign investment figures, the figures of the presence of international companies in Catalonia, the trade figures grow from the Catalan companies they export. You have to think someone that this is by chance or that this is done by spontaneous generation. No, no. Here there are many people who every day – every day – work from all the offices we have runaways from the world to try to capture trading opportunities. And we'll keep doing it, because, more importantly, Catalonia is interested. Miri, just a few hours ago the vice president met with the British ambassador, and it wasn't just a clandestine meeting, or that they had an interest in hiding, but the same ambassador published a trailer saying that he was delighted to meet again with the vice president to talk about the economic relationship between the United Kingdom and Catalonia – ambassador – a few hours later, certainly, that the Spanish government diverted the plane from the British government that was campaigning against Brexit to Gibraltar, certainly, huh? So, while some of them divert planes from their partners, we gather there, and we love the life of meeting there. But it is that, besides sending two ambassadors to do thousands of kilometers when they use five hundred or six hundred to do enough..., and paid for all the taxpayers, also for the Catalan taxpayers for whom the opposition groups suffer so much, it is shown that what they say is that none of us, that we are not interested in anyone, is grossly false because, if not, they would be making a mess of money and they would have to answer for justice. So much so that a short time ago the Spanish ambassador to Sweden has published what he himself has just recognized, and that is that they have tried to interfere with the visit of Councillor Romeva to Sweden these past few hours, and he has declared it in these terms and publishes the Swedish press: the intentions of Spanish diplomacy, which we pay among all, to interfere with the absolutely legitimate work that the government of this country does to try to improve trade relations, for example, between two countries that we are partners, and that is absolutely unacceptable and denouncing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The second point is: communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As the new composition of the Environment and Sustainability Commission is included in the file that has been distributed to all Members, I urge them to complete their reading. Okay? [[Pause.]] Completing the rule 49.2, we now move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Project of presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia for 2016 and projects of presuppositions of the Council of Statutory Guarantees, the Syndic of Greuges and the Union of Accounts for 2016]] [[230-00001/11 and 230-00002/11]] The third item on the agenda is: Draft budget for the Parliament of Catalonia for 2016. By agreement of the Enlarged Bureau, this item of the agenda will be substantiated jointly with item 4, relating to the draft assumptions of the Board of State Guarantees, the Syndicate of Greuges and the Union of Accounts for 2016. In the presentation will be made by the first vice president, Mr. Lluís Maria Corominas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.114.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, in the vicinity, as the President said, the presentation of Parliament's premise – which I see generates passions – for this year 2016. In any case, he walked through the Enlarged Bureau and, in accordance with Rule 37.3, letter g, of the Rules of Parliament, he is now receiving approval, three weeks after passing the approval of the Enlarged Bureau. The Parliament's budget for enguany is EUR 53,152,000, an increase of EUR 1,200,000 is in line with the 2015 budget, and I will now explain its main features. On the one hand, it should be noted that by 2010 this assumption has gone down; in fact, it has a descent of 18.97_per_cent, and sunny the year that made the biggest descent, the year 2014, in which it dropped a 22.31_per_cent. Therefore, we have had a contention in the expenditure, a rigour, also, in the expenditure, during all these years, which have also come down with the real possibilities of entrances that it had, not only this Parliament, but, in general, the Generality of Catalonia. The percentage of increase we present in this assumption is 2.32_per_cent; and now, in any case, I will explain it. In fact, the structure of Parliament's budget is very simple. Basically, therefore, there are three chapters: Chapter I, of ‘Personal, which represents practically 50_percent in this budget; Chapter II, of ‘Goods and services, of current expenditure, which in this case represents 18_percent for the year 2016, and Chapter IV which are ‘Current transfers, basically parliamentary groups, which is a 30_percent of the budget. Regarding the evolution of these chapters in the last five years, I note that the chapter and there has been a great deal of contention, as the time has passed, and, since 2010, it has decreased, again again again, except this 2015, and now 2016, in which this decline has stood. Chapter II has also been descending in these years, just like Chapter IV and, especially, Chapter VI, of "Investments, and now I will explain it. In any case, going to the most detail, chapter I does that encanny grows – it grows a 4.92_per_cent. This increase is motivated by different motives, but, as it used to be, over the past five years, we have reduced the number of staff in this Parliament by 10 per cent. This means that the same work has been done, but with less personal. And, therefore, we are at a level of expenditure of Chapter I before 2008. So, since 2008, we haven't had this level of spending so low. Yes, it is true that this exercise, which we are currently planting in 2016, has this 4.90_per_cent increase due to different motivating factors. The first, because we apply the whole administration, the '1_per_cent, and, therefore..., this applies already from the '1 of gene. Imports are also updated in line with the seniority of the staff, which were usually provided during the legislature, and this time, therefore, we do this from the beginning. And they also have various seats, which for all these years have not been convened here in Parliament: since 2011, in fact, we have not convened any seats, and for example, various places of letters are provided, and also at the level of the archives. Finally, as a compliment to the transitional provision under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the compensations which correspond to the Members, we agreed two years ago that they would go ahead, and that, in any case, these compensations would be added to what was the basic salary structure of the Members themselves. This will be done in a gradual way, it cannot be done without delay, but we are beginning to do so precisely in this presuppositionary exercise. And, therefore, of the salary structure held by the Members, with one share of compensation and the other share of basic wages, what we are now doing is moving from Chapter II to Chapter I of these imports, and that, if this assumption is finally approved, then in this second half of the year it will start to apply. Therefore, in this chapter I – I repeat –, all that has increased, to which we are at 2008 spending levels because of the content we have made these years. Of Chapter II, which is basically « Well and serve, note that since 2008, in which we had a game of 16_million euros, up to 9_million guany, there has also been a constant decrease, and therefore also a lot of rigour in which it is the day-to-day expense of this legislative chamber. And, therefore, also, encanny, what we plant is practically that it does not modify the assumption of this Chapter II, which increases only by 0.44_per_cent. We were able to reduce the cost of the phone, because of the new competition that was made a few months ago. Also, all the assurances, both staff and members of the same Members, also made a new competition. And, as I said before, the expenses of compensation of the Members, which pass, in this case, to Chapter I, are reduced. Yes, all the expenses related to the maintenance of audiovisual installations, computer applications, which I will also talk about, in the field of investments. With regard to Chapter IV... Chapter IV is, from a point of view of budgetary structure, strange, respects other administrations, and also respects other parliaments. A few years ago, all those who were subsidies to parliamentary groups had a share paid to them by the Government and a share paid to them by the Parliament. There are many parliaments in the rest of the state that this allocation of grants to parliamentary groups is directly from governments. And, sometimes, when studies are made of the expenditure represented by the different parliaments of the Spanish State, it is obvious that we, all those who are subsidies to parliamentary groups – and therefore to all groups of this chamber – are directly from this Parliament. And, therefore, Chapter IV which basically has, which corresponds to it, are grants to parliamentary groups and a small part to all popular legislative initiatives, which also fall under this Chapter IV. In any case, I would say that every year since 2008, we have gone down in this allocation to parliamentary groups, and that we are at the lowest level of expenditure since this allocation was created. And at this point this represents practically 15_million euros. Finally, there has also been a decline in the investment side over the years. In fact, this Parliament, in the last fifteen years, has had to take on many investments: first, by expanding the dispatches of the same Members, to the two sides of this Parliament; also, all audiovisual spaces and media support; also, the restoration part, and all this ended practically in 2009. In fact, in 2008, the expenditure of Chapter VI was, practically, EUR 15_million, and is now only EUR 1_million. These inversions of encany, which are foreseen, are basically renewing everything that is audiovisual material. You know that the whole sign of this chamber, at the level of audiovisual media, gives the same Parliament, which are not the rest of the media, but the same Parliament gives this sign. This requires that every four or five years there is a vagina renewing these installations, and that is why this year we also expect an important game in this aspect. In addition, parties are planned at the computer level, as well as for the renewal of heat and cold installations. Okay. This is the presupposition of the Parliament that we present, according to which it was agreed to the Enlarged Bureau, equalled in these 53.152.112_euros. And it is also close to this Parliament, as a compliment to what the law and the regulation have, to make the presentation of the assumptions of three statutory institutions, and that, while its governing bodies have already approved them, it is close to the Parliament to make the final formal approval. The warning – because other times, therefore, we have already explained this – that what corresponds to us is formal approval, and that they obviously have autonomy between their own powers to make all the proposals that they think are appropriate between the instructions that the conjunction of the Government of Catalonia respects to the overall expenditure that we can assume. These three bodies are: the Board of Statutory Guarantees, the Union of Accounts and the Syndicate of Greuges. We go to the ground, and briefly, because you have the documentation, and we have also been able to explain it to the Expanded Table. First, the Board of Statutory Guarantees. It is a very simple, basically Chapter I, presuppositional structure, as it cannot be in any other way, and also from the day-to-day of ‘Blessed and Served, Chapter II'. It is equal to 283,000 for this year, which means that there is a decrease of 0.16_per_cent compared to the previous year, 2015. There were no large variations in staff and no respect for current expenditure; it did include 1_per_cent respect for staff, and also the 25_per_cent return forecast of 2012 pay that was not effective that year. The Union of Accounts equals its budget to 11.368,000_euros, which is 2.22_per_cent more. The Account Union has two incidences on this occasion. Also, obviously, a lot of incidence of Chapter I – 8_millions–, and Chapter II, 2,300,000... And these issues are basically two-nine-place forecast in the Union of Accounts, and also a reclassification of some of these seats in the same union. And, in fact, the prediction, the move of his union had to be done before. The logger that's paid is very high. It was planned to move before, and so on, and this guy down. And, finally, there was a delay in this move and, therefore, there is a forecast of an increase in the parties referring to the loguer, which were not originally planned, and that is why there is this final increment of 2.22_per_cent, and this assumption of 11.368,000. I, finally – and I finish – the syndic of Greuges. The syndic of Greuges presents a presupposition of 6,199,000 euros. Also with a very Chapter I-based structure, as it cannot be in any other way, and Chapter II. Chapter II has an increase in the number of reports to be made from the same union, because it is the Transparency Law that we approved in the previous legislature, and which attributes to the syndicate what it is to make the assessment reports not only partial, but also global, on the application of the Transparency Law. This, which presupposes an additional load of reports, and, thus, Chapter II produces an increase. It also incorporates 1_per_cent into the staff and the forecast of the pay..., 25_per_cent of the 2012 pay. This final assumption of 6,199,000 euros by the syndic corresponds to an increase of 4.39_per_cent. And with that we would end the three institutions, which today also close to approving their premise. I, as always, to arrange for any acclamation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.115.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] Once the speech is over, we can start the vote, if there is no petition. [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]] Mrs. Regant...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.116.0	It was, in order for us to proceed to the vote, that we could explain the sentiment of the vote of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.117.0	All right, then.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.118.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.119.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.120.0	Briefly. But we, in this sense, as was customary in the previous legislature, and so we keep consistent in this, we will abstain from it, because we understand that there are various considerations that we keep in mind and that there is no return here. Now that it is, it seems, so fashionable to talk about "middle class", I would like someone to explain to me what is the middle class that charges €90,000 per year, that is... when the average annual gross salary is €24,200 in Catalonia, and, on the other hand, we have huge stakes in the budget of Parliament and the rest of the bodies with salaries that we think we should rationalise. That, in this sense, we should begin to move forward, both to Parliament and to these bodies and to the rest of the public administration, in the so-called "Andalusian clause, so that we homogenize all the salaries of other bodies, of directives, and, therefore, also of Members and Members. And we also raise subsidies to parliamentary groups, which, as much as we do, are starting to make us a little bit ashamed of the large amounts of money that we can manage to dispose of. Finally, we also ask ourselves or want to reflect on coherence or policies in some of the deputy ministers we have. We ask ourselves, do we see and analyze the large amounts of electricity charged by Parliament, or do we pay and pay for these bodies, which we assume benefit from the large electrical enterprises, and which, in the background, end up seeing or may have an impact on these famous ‘rotating doors' where some Members and Members of some political formations will be able to obtain benefits when they are jubilee. So, before this... [[remorse of the voice]] We keep what we've been doing for three years. We abstain, we continue to demand that we rationalise expenditure, that we actually analyse the salaries of Members and Members, and that we adjust them to what society charges, to what society rep, and that, therefore, we adapt more to the reality that goes beyond these marble walls that are the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Joan Josep Nuet and Pujals ask to speak.]] Mr. Nuet?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.122.0	Thank you, President. Yes, to explain also the sentiment of the vote of our group. We shall vote in favour, both of Parliament's presupposition and of the presuppositions of the three bodies that are here. Mirin, when a family eats a leg, at the end only the bone remains. So, Parliament's presupposition is the bone of the leg. What do we mean by that? Mirin, you've got to do some pedagogy for a while. Democracy needs to invest-money, and those speeches that they want to explain are that democracy can be so, so cheap that it can't invest-money, they're wrong. The Catalonian Parliament has a presumption of 53 million and in the later years almost 20 percent has spread. Is it possible to continue to retaliate more? They think that when in a parliamentary committee it is proposed that a person attend, we have to tell him that the trip is paid. And if you see any place in the state or foreigner, so too, because Parliament practically cannot pay for it. This is a small example, but if we want a quality democracy, if we want a constituent process, we have to put in money. And we have to do pedagogy, because people understand that doing politics and making parliamentarians is not a bad thing about what we have to do, nor do we have to shame ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.123.0	Once the speeches are over, let's go and call for a vote to make the first vote. [[Long break.]] Let us now begin the first vote on the presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. Next, we now proceed to the vote on the assumptions of the Board of Statutory Guarantees, the Greuges Syndicate and the Union of Accounts, jointly. The vote begins. They were approved by 123 votes in favour, against and nine abstentions. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 12/2009, of 10 July, on education, according to the criteria for the locking of centres (debate of totality)]] [[202-00004/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is... I'm sorry, the fifth, because the fourth we voted together, we already supported it together with the third. The fifth item on the agenda is the debate on the proposal for a law amending Law 12/2009, of 10 July, on education, for which it does the criteria for locking centres. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, she presents the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Ms.Jessica Albiach. [[Widow's remorse.]] Hurry up and be quiet, please, so we can continue the session. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, they're quiet. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.124.0	Well, good morning to everyone, and especially to welcome the representatives of the AMPA who accompany us today, on a day that, moreover, is important for the education of this country, and I do not speak only for this purpose of law, but also for the debate of the ILP, well, the debate of the emena to the totality that we will have this late in this Parliament. With the purpose of the law that we present today what we want to do is to end the uncertainty and the suffering of families and the educational community every time the time of pre-registration and enrolment for which it does the closing of lines and the closing of centers. And what we find is that you don't want to talk and get back to a whole thing – it seems like you've got a taste for it – to avoid this dialog and this debate. Now two years ago we presented this very proposition of law and today we see ourselves in the obligation to present it again, and not by taste, but because the situation, instead of getting better, gets worse every day. Two years ago you dropped her with three arguments. The first: we cannot open the LEC apple, and less at these times; as if it were a sacred text and as if families and infants could wait for you to find your moment. The laws are to serve the popular will and not to maintain a series of practices that every day delegitimize them more. The second argument is that some of the things that we propose are already intrinsically collected from the LEC, and also, surely, they will degenerate a series of articles to us where, theoretically, in an explicit or implicit way, there are some of the things that we present today. So, well, if you're collecting, you're collecting, more clearly or less clearly, it's collecting; what happens is that you're not completing it and, if not, you're asking the unions, the educational community and the joints, that you have them in little war, and for something to be. And, thirdly, they say that it is unnecessary to establish objective criteria for opening or closing the law, since they prefer other techniques that are not legislative. We know that tanks and overtures are by decree and that they must respond to political and technical mandates. Can you tell us who the political mandate is to respond to the eight-line P3 tank at Baix Llobregat when more or less one_me this same Parliament approved a motion for a resolution not to have a line P3 tank at Baix Llobregat? These are the political warrants you're dealing with? So, they're not hypocrites and they're taking the emena back to totality. And to these three arguments, moreover, two more have to be added than Councilwoman Meritxell Ruiz puts down often to the table to justify the closure of lines. The first, that we tank lines to not lock centers; when we know that closing lines does not cease to be a preventative lock and that there are cases where today they are tanking a line and the next year they will end up closing the center, and when we know that the concert is not tank at the same speed. And the numbers tell us: 476 children's groups have been closed to the public and 51 to the concert, a ratio of 9 to 1. And, besides, the concerted enjoyment of privileges respects the public: there are no preventive locks, they do not have the insecureness of possible locks at the time of registration, they do not review the registrations until we arrive in September and, moreover, they are allowed to have a higher, and sometimes lower, turn, and they do not have the concert. Even so, it seems – before the councillor has commented – that he will, for the first time in our history, have more closures of the lines of the concertee than of the public. So, well, let's hope that the trend is maintained and, moreover, that if they're on the same line as we are, they'll withdraw the puzzle to totality. And the second argument, which is also used to presenting the councillor, is that of the demographic davalada, when there are places, for example, and Cornellà is not a case..., there is a demand for a hundred children and children, but we have present, and according to statistical data, that the year coming, in the 17-18 course, there will be ninety-six children more than they would ask to place the public schools. And the most curious thing is that among the arguments that you present there is no economist, there is no economist. In this case, you don't talk about money when it's really the real reason that it gets stuck and it's behind the lines of P3, and when it's behind the educational actions when it's Convergence. You have an economicist view, but I would say more, not just economicist, paternalist; because, moreover, when they say to lower rates, they focus on high-complexity schools, without thinking that this stigmatizes the children and children who go to the schools that are in the most vulnerable areas. So, well, we know that I'm going to take the next course, it's going to be about six thousand children and less children in the course. And that's why, what we believe is that the fall in rates must be generalized to all public schools in Catalonia. Of course, and now they will say to us: "We have schools where there are classes that there are fifteen or seven students per class. And I'll say to him, "Yes, but one, that's the exception, and two, that's what a drama is? This isn't drama, this is pride. The drama is those schools where there are twenty-five and thirty students per classroom; but what about fifteen? This must be a source of satisfaction, because, moreover, we know that, when the rate drops, there is more dynamism in schools, in classrooms and, moreover, better educational quality. And, secondly, we also think that education is a common good, it is not only a public service, and therefore, as we believe, it is the educational community – unions, couples and seas, together, everyone – that needs to see and vote in the main decisions it takes. Often it has been said that the LOMCE has put the educational community in little war. We are not going so far, we are witnessing here, at our home, a loss of total trust in the Department of Education for lack of planning, for repeated incompliments of proposals for resolutions that were approved years ago, for closures of lines without consensus with the educational community and with families, because it is not understood that a context of detail at the end of the presuppositions to the concerta will be given 152_million euros more, because we have lines of the public that are closed to the side of private schools, and the private school said that the first course will be concertaran. And this is happening here and this is not the responsibility of LOMCE: this is the responsibility of you. Moreover, we believe that public and bar schools make community, generate networks; networks of collaboration between families, networks of collaboration in out-of-school activities, which are instrumental in the educational development of our children. And not only that: a line that is closed is a teacher who goes to the street. We have a docent body, in Catalonia, which is patenting detail of self, which is each time seen more increased its workload, which, moreover, is in a total work instability and, moreover, we must add at the same time. Therefore, we see that, along with the dignity of the teaching profession, each time we are mistreating them more. Mirin, since the pre-registrations began, we are witnessing a situation of alarm, of uncertainty, of instability, of rebuilding our schools. And that goes so as not to have a permanent dialogue, clear criteria, transparent mechanisms and fixed priorities. Because, if in principle it was about eighty lines that are closed, then they went to sixty-five, after fifty-three, now it turns out that there are fifty-five; so, well, I stop treating education as if it were a regatta market, because it's the future of our infants and it's the future of our country. We have many examples, but I want to warn you that there may be some change, precisely because of this uncertainty that we are talking about. There are places where they don't know if they're going to have a closed line or not, but I'm going to give some examples with the math I've done. In Gavà, we saved one line; another three to Sant Boi, if they wanted to close five and finally there will be two; in a tank one to Abrera, Martorell, Olesa; two to Esparraguera. The Terrassa: the Terrassa finally in tankaran six, but there was a forecast to close twelve, and we are talking about a city that has fifty-two lines of public school, but forty of concerted, an option that should be minority we see that it is almost at the height of the public; Sant Vicenç dels Horts, where two lines, at the Juncadella School and at La Vinyala. At first..., at first we have a good case: the Nova Sea School, which is of pedagogical renewal and the next course closes a line, but the next one, they have already said that they close the center; a school that until the year passed had a list of expectations, a school that had over-registration, and, as territorial servants do not bet for pedagogical renewal, each time has gone to mind and mind more of this project. Or the barri de Llefià, in Badalona, where two lines are enclosed in two schools. L'Escola Mirades, from Torredembarra, with eighty students who are to be taken back to three schools in the municipality. In Lleida..., in Lleida there are'suppressed' sets, but some nine sets are inserted, but in Lleida the biggest problem we have in secondary school, we have that one-twenty students will surely not enter the Joan Oró Institute, and one more is to be left without place because they cannot enter the Lladonosa. In Cornella...., in Cornellà they were not going to lock four, then it will be one, and finally it seems that they do not lock it, still comes out. We're talking about L'Areny School, the only one in the area that specializes in children with hearing disabilities. Or the Margalló School, of Castelldefels, which we have here the representatives of the AMPA. Or to Santa Coloma de Cervello, we have decided to close the school of Montpedrós primary school, to move the students from first to sixth to the School of the Güell colony, that, suddenly, they will have a hundred more students, than they come by the time, that they are to be relocated to barracks, and to school they will convert it into an institute; in an institute that, moreover, is in a precarious situation: they will tend to the middle in a building, mig in classrooms, with works of expansion. Or the five lines that enclose Girona; the three of Tarragona city, and so up to the fifty that they want to enclose. Just a couple of thoughts to finish: if we have managed to reduce the tanks, it was thanks to the pressure of the street, to the concentrations, to the demonstrations, to the protests. This has been achieved by couples and seas, unions, municipalities. These people are doing politics and they're doing good politics. And it must be a pride for all of us who have an educational community and an active citizenry that wants to be the protagonist of its services. And a second thought I want to do: we also need to think about what kind of policies we have and what kind of policies we have if we don't listen and transfer to Parliament the view of the citizenry and the view of the street. In this fabric it seems that it is worth remembering that we are only representatives of the people, that the people hand and we must obey, that we cannot do what we want, that the priorities of the government and of the assumptions must be what the people say, and what they say is that we are not doing well. And if we really think we're a people's sun, we can't have a first-class education and a second-class education; a double network that we see is getting stronger every day. Our obligation as parliamentarians and as parliamentarians is to fight and work so that everyone has equal opportunities and to make public services in this country a referent and a reason for pride. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, in order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si, has the word Ramona Barrufet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.126.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen, intervene to argue this question to the totality that we present from the Parliamentary Group Joint for the Yes. And we present it to our electoral program because we defend the maintenance of the LEC, its development, always in the period when we go to do all the debate and the construction of a new organic law with all the skills we have to have in the future new state. It is a proposal of law, as you said, Member, that they presented at the beginning of April 2014, and, in fact, I did not see any difference with that moment. It is structured into two articles, a final provision, which is certainly the fifth and not the sisena, since the last of the LEC was the fourth. "It has as its object to modify the LEC, with a new point 41.1a, so as to include a follow-up of preconditions to the possible closure of a public centre of ownership of the Generalitat de Catalunya. That is why we propose that before deciding to lock a centre, it should be borne in mind that it does not significantly increase the rate of other schools in the area. Obviously, it's already done. Yeah, I'll say it's already done, everything you've been proposing, another time without altering anything about the law's proposal. "That I do not suppose the decrease in the educational quality of the rest of the schools of the locality. And I don't think so at the moment. Many days ago we had to talk about educational quality, and, at no time – at any time – we mentioned that the educational quality that gives it is really our professionals, teachers and teachers who are in the classroom every day. They call for alternatives or for the participation of local authorities and the educational community to be guaranteed. Obviously I will tell you different articles of the LEC where there is this collaboration between local authorities and the whole educational community. It's one of the most important things in the law. That's what we've been talking about in the Teaching committees all the time. These mixed tables have been created in which the joints plan the area and the offer. It's logical and obvious everything they ask, just that, as I'm saying, I'm already pushing back the LEC. Allow me to tell them that the concreteness they propose is intrinsic to all the wording of the article they intend to amend. From here on, I had proposed to read all the articles again and again while giving time. It would be wise, of course, but not less than what you ask: to modify a law in a sequence of themes that already deals with the same law; instead, to add some concrete things, that what you would do is to leave a driving mass law and that, of course, would harm the whole intervention of the assemblies. Let us think that it is totally unnecessary, that the legislative technique employed is wandering. We believe that it is not an appropriate legislative technique to lay down such criteria for the closure of centres. It's not like that for the center opening. We believe that we do not need to regulate it by law, the same way that we did not believe or believe at any time in other governments of the Generality, mark by law the opening or closing of a center, which also did not exist. Openness that responds to the demographic increases that there have been, especially for the increases in standards in certain years, obviously for all that has been made of family reunions, of new people in our country, and that it was necessary to give an educational response, it would only be lacking. For what it does in Article 1 of the Law's proposal that the word "removal" be added to Article 45 of the Law, we consider that this word is already redundant; we will not change the verbal time to introduce a novelty. In article 45, on the incorporation of schools and places in the provision of educational services in Catalonia, we do not forget – he said at the end of his intervention and we are very much in agreement – it is the educational services in Catalonia that we have in our education system. The Government, in the framework of the educational offer programming, is the one that creates the public centers of ownership of the Generality, in modifying the composition and, if they get out, suppresses them. And, for what it does in Article 2 of the Law proposal, it is proposed to add this new Article 1a to Article 45, that is to say that this contribution that you propose does not bring absolutely anything to the Law, because it is already included, precisely, in Article 44 of the Law, before you propose to amend it. Ask to establish clear and appropriate criteria for the experience and articulation of the LEC. Still more obvious, I'd just miss it. It is clear that these are the criteria that are established from the Government and the Department of Education in the assumptions that you present. Look, from the center lockdown, I can explain it to you, and a lot. Do you know why? Because I had a lock of a center, I had it as the teacher and I had it as the mother, and it was precisely arranged. Because the people we're working on at the concert, I don't think we're in the dark of demons, and we've done something for the education of this country. But, well, we understand that, as you ask for these changes, you believe or at least say that you do not adopt criteria as basic as the ones we have exposed. We maintain ourselves in the criteria and justifications for the proposed amendment of the CEA, they are repeated in respect of other articles of the same CEA. The first point that you ask for is the need for responsibility with local authorities and the educational community, set out in Article 44, I have already said that and I will repeat the times that you correspond, now well, I know that they will not do absolutely any to me because here every u, and more at this time, goes to what it goes to. Article 159 provides for the participation of local authorities in the determination of the educational offer of the territorial area for procedures established by regulation. Article 162 of the LEC defines that local authorities and the Administration of the Generality work together in the area of education through the joint committee set up by representatives of municipal authorities and the department in the exercise of the co-responsibility of each branch and the department, which is organized within the territorial area. In fact, Article 19 also repeats and delimits what is meant by an educational community exclusively. Should this change be introduced if the law specifies it in at least three articles repeatedly? In point b, which says that at the time of suppressing a public center of the Generalitat..., in case it can suppose an increment of the rate of significance to the rest of the schools of the locality or the area, it seems to me that it is a very reasonable question, but it must be remembered that the maximum rates are fixed – they are fixed – to Article 48 of the LEC. Especially they fix the conditions of the decline of the ratios in certain situations, especially in the student gathering with special educational needs, and we think that this is quite important. Despite the State Organic Law, the LOMCE, the Generality, the department did not make any increase in the rate, not one. And what does it mean to increase the value of the money? A 10_per_cent, a 7_per_cent, a 5_per_cent? The reference to the ratio or to the school places of the group, which is the same, to the LEC is already, I have already said, in Article 48, and is fixed up to 10_percent in the live registration. Or they say that the abolition of the public centre of the generality cannot lead to a decline in educational quality. I have already commented, the quality of education is guaranteed by teachers and teachers – I will repeat it again. Or they say that before the closure of a public school, the Generality will have the obligation to study other alternatives, and it is done, in each case. Entering into the question of legislative technology, if you approve of what you propose, would not only be repeated, as I said, but would be decompensated, because you introduce a sequence of elements in which neither the school map nor the articulation of the territory in educational areas are taken into account. We consider that the result would also be imprecise and not close to the LEC fix the maximum number of school places per group. We also consider that the additional content they propose of the law is inappropriate. Look, let's look at the 2007 Andalusian law: seven lines referring to educational programming requirements, referring to the closure of centres. La castellanomanxega, 2010, l'extremenya, 2011: cap reference to tanks of centers. Sometimes it's good to look at legislation, and more when we're talking about a law that's autonomous. Since 2004, the centres have always been created and suppressed by decree. The school map is alive, it can be updated annually according to the need for schooling, as stated in the 2010 decree. They are political mandates, not legislative ones, according to our criteria, which falls within the programming of the educational offer. This Parliament has not already made mandates on programming conditions and on supply, and we think that they are being completed. There are also technical warrants. We have already mentioned: mixed tables, where all the plans that have been made by the local administration in the field of educational programming are due to end and arrive at pacts. Therefore, we think that a modification of the LEC in this sense is not correct and we understand that it does not correspond. For the application of Article 45, for what it does to the opening, maintenance or, if it goes out, locking up centers – let's repeat it another time – the clear and objective criterion is only one: the democratic reality. The only totally objective criteria. After pre-registration data, the corresponding adjustments are made and joint responses are given to the impact of the population evolution at short notice and a long term study is maintained on the future of the school map of each municipality, of each barrier, of each district or of each school area, which you know perfectly well. Demography is coughing and, if it is, it is also to show that the offer is higher than demand..., exists in P3 places in some centers. It was also shown that it is to continue offering classes, groups, that in principle it could be assumed that they would not be offered, and the department did not keep the pre-registration. I do not want to customize in examples, but I do want to remember that the defense of certain positions has made us enter, I am convinced, without anyone saying so, in different problems, municipal problems – sure that we do not want them at all – but in competitions between centres, between educational communities in the same municipalities, in transfers of students from one school to another to increase enrolment or pre-registration. We've been facing educational communities, we've brought a problem to the joints. For the next course Teaching has rejected 66,888 requests for pre-registration to P3 in a course that has offered 75,940 places, a total of 9,052 petitions less than the places offered. The department has taken into account in this offer the reduction of the rate; it has set itself in twenty-two, it has set itself standards. Look, the criteria that have been adopted for pre-registration are based on programming the initial offer on the basis of ratio 22, ensuring that all criteria and Vaginal Education Centres follow with their educational project, avoiding stigmatization of schools in disadvantaged environments and aging throughout this continuity of these projects, above all. All the projects, by the way, good, equally defendable. And I'm saying that because at some point we have also seven of us who have provoked all these confrontations between educational projects that all centers are bringing forward with their best criteria. It is not we who limit and tank the possibility of changing to the corresponding adaptations that the company followed. The law is good if it allows you to adapt to circumstances, if it is useful to those people to whom it is addressed. We consider that the Education Act does not have to be subject to point-to-point and nuanced changes. We do not agree with the amendment of the LEC, and less we may still agree to change legislative marks in the case of educational programming. In Catalonia, we have the encumbrance and the fate of having a proper law, a law of the country, which we think we have to take care of and protect. We have an important tool to develop educational policies in a flexible and adaptable way to the different changes in circumstances. We have a legislative tool that we do consider important and valuable; we will see if it is for all of you today. We think we've had the task of preserving it and developing it, and there's been a law that has trained us to endure the different jobs that we've lost from the State through the organic law. We consider a fate to be the emperor of the current Catalan legislation; we will see for how many of you today are. We'll also see if they'll facilitate or allow... that we're in the grip of this organic law. And if that's not the case, if you don't defend our goal to the full, what we will prove is that it will be the show that the time has come to start this dialogue, this political debate, and if it won't be to modify the LEC..., but it will be to establish a new organic law to bring forward the future state of the new Catalonia. Thank you, President, Counsellor, Members of Parliament. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to turn against, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.128.0	Mrs. Barrufet... - Where are you, I don't see it? [[Pause. The joker laughs.]] Ah! What we intend to do today is to end neither the uncertainty nor the anxiety of families and to shield the public teaching system. And what we find is that you want to keep a dynamic that doesn't work and that more rejects the education community honestly. I repeat: you say that the LOMCE has put the entire educational community against it; so, well, it seems that the Department of Education wants to make it competitive, because it is nothing strange to want to guarantee for you the educational projects of each centre; it is not something strange to want to guarantee for you that there are objective criteria for opening and closing schools, and it is hard to believe that because it is not the law of other autonomous communities..., it seems to be a matter of taking advantage of the legislation compared to you to put it as an excuse and say that this cannot be changed for you or it cannot be guaranteed for you. Catalonia has been a pioneer in the defence and guarantee of everyone's rights and must continue to feel it. What we're finding is a total lack of empathy with families, and if we've introduced it again, it's because the situation hasn't changed in two years, on the contrary, it's getting worse. And I've already given the figures before: it seems that for the first time in history this time we'll lock more of the concert than of the public, but we'll wear three, four years in which 476 lines of the public have been closed before 51 of the concert. You commented: "No, it is the educational quality that depends on the faculty. Yeah, so he's not treating good people. Clearly, it's another thing that's not..., that's also..., that's beyond it: the educational quality depends on the teacher and each time they have higher, lower rates under and higher workload. You're incongruent with each other. They talk about working together with the assemblies. Is it possible that mayors and mayors go to protests, demonstrations, and concentration by taste? Is it not that you act unilaterally without the consent of the municipalities? Well, and, besides, it seems... You say, "No, it's already taken to the LEC. It seems that it is not clear enough, because if it is collected to the LEC and you are closed P3 centers and lines in Catalonia, it seems that we will have to clarify it more because it does not continue to pass and follow closed centers and lines with the LEC at hand. Don't apologize: you want to get rid of money and follow lines from public school. And what you say is that you are a conductor, we are a guarantor: you guarantee with families, you guarantee with the teacher and you guarantee with the public school. And if we talk about school map, school map seen, our other days: "Yes, but on the living school map you can cut your hands and feet or you can nudge so that every time you get stronger and the educational quality of our country will continue to improve. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.130.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. And good morning to all the members of the chamber, to the guests, to the families of the AMPA, and especially to the relatives of victims of terrorism. I know very hard that the Speaker of Parliament rebi today Mr Otegi. This gentleman has been sentenced for secrecy and for living in ETA. And he's never asked for forgiveness for the ages. Democrats cannot accept lessons from totalitarians. The dignity of the free societies demands the condemnation of terrorism and the memory of the victims requires claiming their dignity in front of the botxins. ETA victims don't ask for revenge, so they ask for justice. Anant ara to the proposal of the law that occupies us, says Irina Bokova, Director General of UNESCO, that "there is no more powerful transforming force than education to promote human rights and dignity, eradicate poverty and achieve sustainability, build a better future for all based on equal rights and social justice, aspirations that are fundamental aspects of our common humanity. Of course, all the people who are now listening to us subscribe to these words. There are parties that talk more about education and there are parties that talk less about it. I am lucky enough to belong to a game that has education as one of its foundational pillars. But in any case, I've never seen a party say that education doesn't matter. In theory, for all parties education is fundamental. But, of course... one thing is to preach and the other to give wheat. The reality is that Councilwoman Irene Rigau's mandate was like one of Attila's horsemen riding once and another on public education. And if the gespa still survives is for the professionalism and vocation of serving our teachers and for the mobilization of families. During Mrs Rigau's term of office, the expenditure for each student of public education was reduced by 17,5_per_cent, some ferotage details that are not corresponding to the decrease in the Generality's assumption. During Mrs Rigau's term, every possible detail was made, and these were not reversed. Now, since there is no longer much detail left, the excuse of the demographic davalada is taken advantage of to close lines of P3 in both public and concerted centers, even in areas, as my Jesuit companion Albiach has already said, where there was a firm commitment not to close it, such as, for example, the Baix Llobregat. It could have taken advantage of this demography to reduce the rates to all the centers and not only to what they consider most problematic, but, in the accounts of this, they have dedicated themselves to closing lines of P3. Besides, it's not in a reasonable and planned way in high school places, and we already find ourselves with municipalities in Catalonia with no institutes or with students in barracks. We're starting to find these problems in high school at many locations, and it still seems to indicate that these problems go further in our own years. Following on from the topic of detailing, the Jaume Bofill Foundation presented the 2014 report The educational political agenda in Catalonia: an analysis of the options of government, it came to the conclusion that the crisis situation did not justify neither the magnitude nor the biax of detailing, and therefore the report talks about "ideological detailing. So, well, I think we've got another set of ideological P3 lines. If we really believe, as Irina Bokova says, that education is the most powerful transformative force to end the poor, we need to invest in education. If it doesn't turn into the most disadvantaged environment, the poor are perpetual, inequalities are increasing, and that's how the lack of social cohesion results. For this reason, it does not seem strange to us to have been precisely together for the Yes that has presented a message to the totality to this proposition of law that speaks, for example, that the confinement of a school does not represent an increment of rates to the schools of the area. Raths are a fundamental aspect of quality education, and raths in Catalonia, say what they say, continue to feel high. That's not to talk about the traps you're making with the rites. For example, routings can be forced on new people, and this trap more or less can be heard, but more surprising is the fact that they do not count on the final amount of routings, as if a repeater student does not have his or her fall, his or her table, and you need the attention of the teacher as much or more as the rest of the company. The topic of racquets is obvious if we think of a school of idioms. If we want to learn a language and a school they tell us that the groups are twenty-five and on the side they tell us that they are twelve or thirteen, we all go to school that tells us that the groups are twelve or thirteen. Why? Because it's much easier to learn in reduced groups, especially if we want to do an innovative pedagogy and promote skills like now oral expression, so poorly worked, badly, in Catalonia. In this sense, it seems fair to me to try to ensure that the closure of a school, which is always bad news, does not add up to the rest of the centres in the area, because the weight of a closed school, such as losing a more centered project, or having a school close to home for many families..., we would have to retrude from the quality of all the centres in the area. This does not mean that we are totally in agreement with everything that is said in this bill. We disagree, for example, when talking about the need for co-responsibility in local decision-making and educational community; we like to talk more about participation. But, well, these are subtle things to see, if a debate opens. What seems obvious is that the current laws of education, both autonomous and national, need to be revised and changed. We are not in favour of either the LEC or the LOMCE, but, while we do not come to a national education pact, which is what we defend, we must go to pieces to try to ensure that the education system is as fair as possible, and can offer the highest quality, equal opportunities for all students. And in this sense, we are open to debate. In the present case, Article 45 of the LEC does not establish criteria or justification at the time of the abolition of a public educational centre of the Government of Catalonia, and I personally am delighted that Mrs. Barrufet acknowledges that we are an autonomy and that this is an autonomous law. Progress properly, Mrs. Barrufet. And this proposition of the law that he is trying to do is to pale this lack of concreteness. The LEC has had a lot of political recovery in its day, but each time it has less political recovery, and it has never had the support of the educational community, and that is why we think it needs to be changed; but, meanwhile, it is the law that we have in place and it needs to be completed, and we must try to improve it as much as possible. We would vote against the threat to totality, because we firmly believe that education is the most powerful transforming force. And, in this sense, all the debates are welcome for their best. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.131.0	Next, the words of Mrs Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.132.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, and also members of the educational community who accompany us, from the outset, say that the PSC will not give support to the speech to the totality presented by Junts for the Yes, and our vote, therefore, will go in the sense of resuming the processing of this proposed law amending the LEC for which it makes criteria for locking centres. We share the idea of foundations that would require the department the maximum guarantees and justifications at the time of closing a public centre, as well as the compliment of criteria that, in any case, take into account the co-responsibility of decision-making by local authorities and the educational community, which does not always happen, and which do not assume, to a great extent, an increase in ratios to the rest of the centres in the educational area or an injury to educational quality, which is often happening. After selling the Socialists we accompanied members of the educational community, mayors, mayors, governors and governors of Baix Llobregat before his as Serveis Territoriales de Sant Feliu – where, by the way, today there are again complaints – and we protested against the unilateral closure of P3 lines in various municipalities in the region; also against the loss of opportunity to lower rights in a context of democracy among the smaller ones, because, all the while knowing that the course that there will be an important demography in the children's cycle, while at the same time failing to fulfil various mandates of this same Parliament, the Government would have decided to close lines for the simple fact of establing the sum of thirteen masters, according to the others. And this is a reality that is repeated also to many other indwellings of the territory. In fact, the Socialists were the first group to provoke this debate in full, alerting and denouncing a few months ago the closure of lines announced for the department to pre-registration, which limited the ability to elect and could also lead to increases in ration instead of taking advantage of this davalade of democracy in the child's cycle to reduce these rations. But, said that, and focusing on the debate that we are dealing with today, we did have doubts about how far, in order to ensure the completion of certain criteria at the time of closing centres or public lines, it was really necessary to open the reform of the LEC, since it regulates, in fact, the abolition of public centres. In concrete terms, the LEC regulates aspects such as the creation and suppression of centres, in its article 45, which it could read, but it goes on to say that the Government, in the framework of the programming of the educational offer, creates public centres, in modifying the composition and, if it goes up, in suppressing. So, as we say, despite the fact that we share this idea of foundations with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which has to be regulated and made more transparent these criteria, the justifications at the time of closing a centre, of ensuring that, if it is to do so, it is in agreement with the educational community and the municipal authorities – therefore, never unilaterally – and that this does not impact on this increase in ratios – it is to say, not to closing public centres if it is not very justified, and to shield us, shield our school –, if we have doubts about this debate through the reform of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Law on the Law on Law on Law on the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on the Law on Law on Law on the Law on Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Law on Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Law on Law on Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Law on Law on Law on the Law on the Law on And I say that we consider the LEC to be a good standard, which effectively allows for very different policies and decisions than we have in recent years. In fact, in a not-so-Lunny era, when a government of left-wings ruled Catalonia, it is not only not close to centres, but a new public school was built every week. And that was with the Education Law, the same one we have today, without this proposed modification. Because, as he pointed out, therefore, the LEC is a broad _frame, that we understand that it has the system to be set up, and that it would allow for very different policies and decisions than we are living. Why..., say the LEC, for example, that it is tanquin lines of public centers and does not get into concert? What can't replace teachers who have illnesses, for example? That's not what you're saying about the LEC. And, therefore, what happens today, this discretion of certain measures, has to do with the political will of the present government, which is king by an ideological criteria and in case it has to do with the normal mark. And that's what we want to make clear. So, yes, from all angles, we might agree that after a few years of Convergence government – first of Convergence with the PP and then Convergence with the Left –, but that some policies of education detail have been completed that may have perverted the original hope of this law and that might need its best. We can talk about assumptions, where the reversal in education has fallen by about 20_per_cent; from this deliberate closure of lines with democratic or economic justification and in no case for pedagogical criteria, and sometimes with differentiated scales between public and concerted schools; from the detail of rights and salaries that a pillar of the education system has suffered such as teachership, and continues to patent, and from the disinvestment of construction and adequacy of centers. Moreover, those who now defend both the LEC, have not made an application without a presuppositional follow-up and in a sense not always, as I said, respect the LEC's experience. And I am referring concretely to the decree relating to seedlings and directions, for example, that surely it could have been done in a quite different way; but, as I said, in another context it would not have touched a comma of this article, but, given the current context, the later decisions, possibly, therefore, convinces to shield some criteria, to shield some justifications to the same law in cases where it is necessary to lock a centre. So, let's go to the ground, and, without advancing ideas that we would plan in the processing phase to enrich the current wording that we consider to be much better, yes, we mean, respect the content that proposes this proposal... First, we guarantee that when the department closes a center does it in compliance with more than justified criteria, that they listen to pedagogical approaches, that they need schooling, and, in any case, that they are not simply democratic or economic. Secondly, the educational community and the local authorities, which must be the authentic co-responsibles of this planning, are taking account of this, which is not really happening now to the mixed commissions; in general, in a committee the department informs of what they intend to implement in the territory, it listens to the municipal representatives, normally, however, without their opinion being binding. In fact, in the proposal of law that the Socialist Group has entered in relation to the choices that secrete by sex, we also incorporate the need to add the co-responsibility of local authorities to article 45.1, it is said that the government will be able to create lines and modify their composition, if they get out, suppress it..., say, also: "With the preceptive collaboration of local authorities. In the third place, the topic that suppresses it from a center does not imply an increase in the rates in the centers around it. It's obvious, even though it's true that these ratios are already regulated in Article 48, so... just as you don't imply a decline in educational quality. We share that. But, finally, we do want to highlight the importance of promoting the model of the school, which guarantees the pedagogical continuity, especially important in the early years of the ESO, and, in concrete terms, in the areas where there is the construction of our secondary schools, which is a reality, therefore, very present at our schools. And the fact that before the closure of a school was completed was also the possibility of implementing a school model. So what we are asking is that we are serious about all the folds, that we are doing a rigorous debate, that we face without and with determination a modification of the LEC to give more guarantees to our public school, but that we are doing so with responsibility, because sometimes it is hard to see how some groups, therefore, remain valuable to the LEC or use it to explain certain policies that are ideological and have nothing to do with this standard mark. Therefore, we improve the Teaching Law, shield the public school even more; but above all, we deploy it preserving its progressive spirit and accompany it presuppositionally. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, there is the word María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.134.0	Thank you, President. First of all, welcome all the guests who accompany us. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, in April 2014, we discussed a proposal for a law similar to today's. It should therefore be assessed whether or not the circumstances that led us to support the handling of the bill have changed. And I must tell you that until yesterday at seven in the afternoon we thought that these circumstances had not changed. The position of the People's Party until yesterday at seven o'clock in the afternoon, and basically in defense of the parents' right to choose a quality public center, was to vote against the amendment to the whole presented by Junts pel Si. Because we, until yesterday, were convinced of the honesty of Catalonia's proposal Yes, it is Pot. We were convinced that this proposal was presented in defence of public education to ensure its quality, to guarantee the equal opportunities of any student, apart from the ownership of the centre chosen by his family. We thought that the objective of the proposal, legitimate and shared by us, was to shield public education from unjust, unilateral and arbitrary decisions of the Government of the Generalitat. And to that claim we wanted to join, as we did two years ago, as we have been doing for the past five years, supporting and presenting proposals in the Committee on Education or here in plenary to prevent the closure of public lines, to build the necessary equipment to reduce barracks, to reduce ratios, to put in place the institutes we need or to keep and properly take care of educational equipment, which some are falling apart. And in this regard, in favour of public education of sufficient quality and ensuring equal opportunities, we are in the People's Party without nuances, without doubt and without complexes. And that is why we wanted to support a proposal for a law that would offer these objectives. However, yesterday, at seven o'clock in the afternoon, we received a teletype with the statements of the spokesperson for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, explaining the reasons why he asked for the vote for his proposal. A request for a vote based, she said, on the cuts to be applied to the concertee in order not to have to cut the public. The spokesperson for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot who taught us the patita of the true intentions with which this proposal of law was presented: to charge the educational concerts with the alibi of the cuts to the public. And let me tell you that we find it politically dishonest to present a proposal that does not mention the concerted school, that does not speak of ownership or privatization, an impeccable proposal in terms of defending public education and that we would have supported, in order to hide the trap that, in reality, what is intended is to end educational concerts, as supposed responsible for the cuts applied to the public. It can be seen that for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot the action of the government does not influence, and ending the concerts, we end the problems. Ingenuity, misdiagnosis or conscious and demagogue political use of the cuts that the Generalitat has been applying to public education for five years? We cannot judge ingenuity, but we can assess the misdiagnosis of where the problems of the public are and how guilty this government is that it would act, surely, with the same prepotency, arbitrariness and injustice even if there were no concerts. And it seems obvious that Catalonia Yes that it is Pot uses public education as a political weapon, taking advantage of its justified discontent and frustration to face and generate unnecessary and unproductive tension between educational centers and models, which are complementary and which are all necessary as guarantors of plurality and freedom desirable in our society. We conclude, therefore, that Catalonia Yes, which is Pot has intended with this proposal, drafted in terms as impeccable as contradictory to the statements of yesterday's spokesman, set us a trap; a trap to those by conviction, and in good faith, we want to defend and protect public education. And, in addition, they have intended to make us the necessary accomplices of a hidden agenda that delegitimizes and degrades their proposal. With this action, the proposing group shows us that they are not reliable, because it presents us cheating proposals, and that its parliamentary action does not seek to improve public education as the proposal says, but that it is mediated and directed by its priority objective, practically obsessive in Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which is to end educational concerts. In fact, there is no proposal from this group that does not introduce a point against the concerts, and it doesn't matter if the proposal goes to education or economy. But we wanted to trust Catalonia. Yes, it is Pot. We wanted to think that if there was no evidence or objective reason for it, we should not be suspicious of the proposal simply because it came from Catalunya Yes it is Pot. Unfortunately, this is not always the case, and there are those who prefer to apply sanitary cords by voting against everything, even betraying the principles that are supposed to the parties. And this sectarian attitude, like almost everything sectarian in life, ends up having consequences. And I am referring, now, to 17 February this year, three months ago, when Junts pel Si voted, in bloc, against educational concerts. Junts pel Si voted, along with Catalunya Si que est Pot, with the PSC and the CUP, against a motion of the People's Party that what he intended was to protect the educational concerts of the persecutory mania of these three groups. Since the PP we introduced this motion, precisely to avoid situations like today's, and we assumed that Junts pel Yes would support us, but at that time Junts pel If he left us alone, only defending the freedom of education and the right of families to choose public education or social initiative on equal terms. From our point of view, with an irresponsibility that we don't know if they'll get a political bill. In any case, for us and for many people, it has become clear that the Junts pel Yes parties have lost credibility and that they are not reliable defending concerted teaching, defending the mixed network as a model of plurality and freedom. It is regrettable, but Junts pel Si has voted against the concertation with pilgrim arguments that anyone can consult in the sessional diary of 17 February. And it is understandable that they do not now feel safe to rely on their deputies to stop an eventual amendment to this bill that proposed to eliminate the concerts. We in the People's Party are sure of what we stand for and of the consistency of our group. We have clear criteria because we have clear principles. And that is why families know that they have us to defend the freedom and plurality of education, equal opportunities and the right of families to choose an educational model, public or private, but of quality and on equal terms. Returning to the proposal, as we said in the debate two years ago, the situation in Catalonia in 2011, with economic slowdown and bankrupt finance, required action and had to be cut. The question is where. In our opinion, the most fair thing was to cut the customer structure of the public sector that is maintained with our taxes but that is at the service of the Generalitat, almost three hundred entities that cost us 6,000_million_of_euro, all of which are non-dispensable, almost all duplicated and oversized. It is unfair that the Government of the Generalitat, like the previous one, cuts in opportunities for Catalans to maintain their customer network of unconditional support and to pay for their political quimera. It is a democratic perversion to allocate the taxes we pay to ensure solidarity to finance something as unlikely and as incomprehensible in Europe as the secession of Catalonia. In this was already the Convergence Government two years ago and in this is Junts for Yes now. We thought that this bill was going to shield public services exclusively, and since the CFP, of course, we want to collaborate to shield public education before governments that prioritize independence of people, state structures to public services, because Catalonia has a lot to cut before it touches education. Education has been one of the areas most affected by anti-social budgets. And it has, in short, suffered a style of management that we cannot endorse, share or support, but for which the concerted centres are not responsible; it seems unfair, wrong and unfortunate to blame them for a fault that is not theirs. Even Catalunya Yes, it is Pot who is doing this government a favor and redeems it from a fault that is only his. Therefore, making it clear that from the opposition we will continue to defend quality public education, which guarantees the real freedom of families to choose the public center they prefer, that we will defend plurality, and equal rights and opportunities, we are obliged not to allow the processing of this proposed law trap that seeks to make our good faith the necessary collaborator for a change of educational model that is freed and detrimental to the quality and plurality of our system. We will vote for the amendment as a whole because we are in favour of freedom of education and educational concerts, because we are against the action of this Government with regard to public education, but we are not going to follow the game to Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which with its proposed trap has lost today a golden opportunity to public education, because it has held it hostage to its obsession against the plurality of education and against the freedom of families to decide on an equal footing. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.135.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Pilar Castillejo", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.136.0	Yeah, good afternoon to everyone, good morning to everyone who's with us today from the education community, thank you. Okay. With this proposal to modify the law that talks about downtown locks, we thought it was a good time, too, to talk about this subject, because we see that there are many, at this time, that we are defining who will be the lines that we will have during the coming course. There are many centers, the lines that are closing, in groups of P3 for this course, and much of the revolt that is taking place in the educational community on this topic. Finally, it seems that there will not be so many lines that are sealed as if they had been announced at first thanks, as we have already said, thanks to the action of the educational community that has defended their rights on the street, thanks to the protests, thanks to the fact that we have defended the schools, thanks to the fact that we have defended the groups, are much less than the tanks of those that were announced in principle. We have, however, taken a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for downloading. There was a Christmas drop that made it reduce groups and, instead of reducing the rates to the schools, what we've done has been close to many groups of P3. It has been a missed opportunity to improve the quality of teaching, an opportunity that directly affects public school, because what has occurred is a significant comparison between public school and concerted school. The lines that have been closed are all public schools, with which we see ourselves with a hidden privatization of our education system. We're closing public schools and we're keeping the schools together, which directly affects our entire teaching system, because, as we're closing groups, we're eliminating teachers, and these teachers will have them one day and another on the street, also defending their rights. This is what we are achieving with this educational policy, putting the parents, putting the educational community and putting the teachers into little war. That's why we thought it was a good proposal, that I was proposing with the change of law in Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, for criteria in the centers' tanks. The LEC has already stated in its argumentary, in its article – it has already said – that ‘by means of agreements with local authorities, they believe, modify and suppress public centres from which a local authority is held. Okay? Here what we see is a law modification that tries to affect a topic that is already collecting the LEC, which is that by means of agreements they can create, modify and delete public centers. We see, therefore, that we are also taking advantage of an opportunity to make a deeper modification of the LEC. Why? Because with this proposal to modify the law that presents us Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, it is still talking about public centers, with its modification we do not enter the term of the groups, we do not talk about group lockdowns and that here we will find this co-responsibility between locals and educational community, we continue to talk only about center lockdowns. What we are, where we have the important wisdom, is in the locking of groups, the closing of sentient lines that are bringing down the quality of our public education system. Nor does he speak to us..., indeed, of a band is fine, because he incorporates..., of this correspondentship speaks of the educational community, of all people, institutions that intervene in the educational process..., it is good that this consent, this correspondentship is not only between administrations, but we also incorporate the educational community. Yes, it is true that the LEC was already talking about this co-responsibility of local authorities and administration. It says precisely that it is the competence of local authorities to determine the educational offer. Therefore, it is obvious that what is missing from us – also in this proposed amendment of the law – is to establish what mechanisms we will have because it is put in the way of this co-responsibility so that it is real. Because it's obvious that mixed commissions that exist now aren't spaces for consensus. The only one they are now is space where the department is upstairs and gives the explanations they want to do, but it doesn't come to any consensus. So, it was an opportunity, too, because with this modification of the law, with this proposed modification incorporated just as mechanisms because this co-responsibility was real, it's not just in words, as it is now. Have they explained it very well, if not why our governors, our mayors, come out in the street defending that it is not tank lines? So, because they don't agree, many times, but they're not responsible for determining the educational offer. And we also think it's a little concrete, this modification proposal, when it says that the increase in rates is not meaningful to the rest of the schools, right? What does it mean that the increase in ration is meant for the rest of the school? Aren't we going to tank a center if we increase the rate in a center with only one student? It's already an increase in significance for me. That would also be a lot more concrete. Like when we talk that you can't shut down if that diminishes your educational quality. We think they correspond a little more concretely in those terms. Then what we find ourselves with is a modification, with a proposal to modify the law with a very attractive title, isn't it? , that we are talking about locking criteria of centers, but with a content that at this time does not respond to the expectations that this title creates, so that we do not concretely have the necessary mechanisms to exercise co-responsibility– it has already been seen that with the current description of the LEC it is not enough, because not in any case, of this co-responsibility– ; it does not extend the decision-making spaces further beyond the educational centers, so that it can actually affect the educational offer, because we are not talking about groups or lines, but we are still talking only about educational centers; it does not shield the ambiguity of meanings, with the words of significance and decrease in quality, it does not block downflows of resources in place of the centers. Therefore, we believe that it is a proposal for change that remains scarce, that remains short of seeing the problem that we have at these times, which does not mean that we do not support it – which does not mean that we do not support it. We do not want to believe that what we are doing at this time with this proposal is taking advantage of a painful situation that we are experiencing these days with P3 group tanks and that they have a good share of the educational community in little war on the street. We do not believe that it is being used to launch empty proclamations, we want to think that it is a very better proposal, so as to involve the educational community in the decisions, at this opaque moment, of the territorial services, and we hope that if the process of today's past, that after the explanations of the Group of the People's Party already see that we do not, therefore, hope we can help to improve it by voting against the challenge to the totality that Junts presented for the Yes. What we have also seen is, with this explanation of the vote the Popular Party Group has given now, that in educational subjects, both PP and Juntes for the Yes always vote together. Why? So, simply, because they have the same educated model. Because, when they talk about freedom at school, they don't really get to have freedom, which is about freedom, and it would be that absolutely everyone, each and every one of the kids can sort out the center they want to go to, regardless of the socio-economic context of this child, regardless of whether this kid doesn't have money or has money to sort out the educational center. Because right now, the only ones who can sort are the ones who have money to pay for this sort, not everyone. Therefore, we cannot talk about freedom to raise this goal to the full. To talk about freedom we should let absolutely everyone can sort the center, eliminating the concerts that are now an obstacle to equality. Therefore, we are giving recollection to this proposal to amend the law which, by the way, his intention was something that seems to be armored in this Parliament, which is not to touch the apple of the LEC. And let's hope that with the debate this late in the LEC we don't open the apple, but that we make a huge Macedonian and that we can pull forward with the ILP debate for education, in which we can speak absolutely of all and each of the joints of this LEC. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote, we shall call to the vote. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. [[Long break.]] The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Therefore, this initiative remains rejected. [[Question to the Government on the deployment of the Law 10/2015, in vocational training and qualification]] [[300-00049/11]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is: an inquiry to the Government on the deployment of the Law 10/2015, in professional training and qualification, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Miss Esther Niubó. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, please, to the Members and Members, who are in a hurry and in silence to continue with the session. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.138.0	All right. Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, about a year ago, June 2015 this chamber approved the Law of Vocational Training and Qualification, with the impulse of the Socialist Group and a great support also of this chamber, almost 90_per_cent. For the PSC, from a point of view of progress, that law meant strengthening vocational training and qualification as a subject right of individuals throughout their lives, consolidating the priority of serving the collections with more difficulty in accessing training and fighting against inequalities; a law designed to integrate all the professional training and qualification subsystems of Catalonia in three years: the continuation, the regularity, the... for employment; a priori, therefore, with very different standard marks and cultures, and to respond to the needs of training and professional qualification of young and adults. It was intended to facilitate access to a training of prestige and quality, such as progress, employability and especially to address the recognition of work experience and non-formal learning as a country strategy, and thus to recognize the need for accreditation of many people and knowing that 45_percent of the working population of Catalonia does not have their professional qualification, as well as having work experience or training to do so. In fact, as in the Commissions' last report, we in Catalonia have a 9_percent of intermediate VET qualifications compared to the 33_percent of midjana that the OECD has. Therefore, this challenge of facilitating professional qualification is understood to be key to preventing social exclusion and unemployment at lower levels of qualification, and thus to promote employment, job reintegration and competitiveness. In short, a new model of integral governance of the FP was promoted to accompany and strengthen the incipient economic recovery, the product model change, the bet for an economy based on the knowledge and internationalization of markets. Therefore, after a few years of blackness, I would say, of the Government of Artur Mas, which were characterized to eliminate the FP program. as the government had created, to impose a tax of 360_euro for students of higher grades and of higher grades, to privatize certain formed cycles, not to speak of the limitations of the SOC to accredit professional skills, the government was finally rethinking its approach to the FP and printing what we understood to be a necessary impulse, as stipulated by the LEC, and approving this law which we wanted to talk about today, and which we celebrated. But, as long as this law gives its fruits, it must be diligent with its deployment, which must be done with the same consent, as with its approval; it must be done with the participation of all the agents involved, and there are many, and with a presuppositionary endowment that the company is accompanying – and I am talking about material and human resources – and it must be guaranteed with determination the true integration that is being proposed. And this is the object of the inquiry. We do not seek, honourable Counselor, a political dispute of this chamber around the FP, but we do want to make commitments from your Government in the direction of the objectives of this law, which, I insist, my group endorsed in its moment of confidence in a correct and ambitious deployment. This law contained a sequence of important elements, positive, such as an integrated register of competitive units, which we value positively; but all its forecasts require a renewed and greater compromise. In the first place, integrated information services, guidance and advice on the set of system possibilities are provided in the law, and today we find that this is a key process that needs to be improved. There is no day-to-day information, guidance and follow-up service that is unique, permanent and coordinated that ends with early school drop-out and facilitates work, training and educational transitions. In fact, there is no single and permanent procedure. Lack of information, which is fundamental, and we think it's difficult if we don't count on a map of training needs. There are no single points of information, as I said; there is a lack of coordination between compulsory and post-compulsory education, which makes many students of ESO with school children unable to access medium-level studies. And neither is there a permanent advice; in fact, the teacher does this service outside of his or her hourly structure and there is no type of extra endowment for the teacher to believe labor skills or academic validation of educational titles. Nor is there an effective relationship with the Catalonian Occupational Service, and at these times we have to denounce that it is not coordinating active policies with the FP, and therefore we ask for a special effort to involve the SOC in the circuit. In short, we think that the detection of the most urgent needs must be a permanent, free, tax-free process – I mean now – and that is not what is happening at these times. Secondly, on the regulation of people's rights and rights in practices and learning from businesses that acquit them. Here we wanted to stress that as the Socialist Group we have always considered it essential to learn to regulate the relations between apprentices and entrepreneurs, and to avoid abuses in the relationship between these and the enterprise, which should be done, we understand, with the participation of trade unions and also of the entrepreneurs. But what happens to businesses today? Is there any control to prevent many of these students from becoming cheap workers? To give some examples: if a car student goes to a big company – we understand how big they are – he will surely have resources that he might not have in a small and medium-sized company. But if an aesthetics and hairdresser student does practice, not in a big chain, but in a small hairdresser owned by an autonomous; in working hours, who can provide this training? Who controls that instead of forming, this person, therefore, rents, in a wig? And this is to say that the figure of the learner as well as the company trainer is not clear or well regulated. And in the framework of dual training, which is not exactly the model of alternation, since it involves much more than practicing in a centre, there is no standard framework for establishing which conditions to complete the format centres and which companies. What does the center tutor do and what does the company tutor do? Can anyone form a company? And who pays for this training? The company? The department? Alumni? I, who's controlling me? Therefore, on dual formation, which the government is talking about so much, it should be based on concertation, which does not exist here, and that is perhaps why we should not say alternative model. Now, we do want to make it clear that our group believes in dual formation, but we demand social dialogue as the basic instrument, as it does passes to the Basque Country. In third place, about the scholarship system. The law says that the busy people who attend the different offers and training modalities will be able to request grants and transport, maintenance, accommodation, disability, conciliation, but in view of the timetable of deployment, the need to meet the inequalities, does the government think that we can really wait until 2017 to regulate grants and integrated system aids? My group, we don't think so. In fourth place, the law provided for adaptation to the work needs of each territory starting from a study of training and qualification needs. And here, despite the criticisms that are being made, and with logically important reservations, that must preserve freedom, the quality of formation, we do want to value and claim the determining role of the local world in the FP system in all spheres of decision-making and governance. We therefore share the view that the involvement and participation of the territories, the complicity, and the participation of social workers, and that means unions and businesses, because we understand that if there is no real need for certain projects, they can move forward, as the experience has shown. But I insist on a map of training needs and offers, which we demand. In another order of things, the law also provided for a national accreditation and qualification plan in new months, of which the current government just presented the guidelines a few weeks ago. Therefore, we begin by failing to comply with the terms set out in the law, which provided for the statutory deployment of the plan before March 25 and, for the time being, we only have guidelines. And here we want to ask you, honourable Counselor, if, taking into account that the statutes of the Public Training and Qualification Agency are to be approved before June 25th, is there any decree in public display? And I'd also like to talk about the structure, but how I think I'm just going to leave it for the second time. But I would like to end by highlighting a couple more questions, one that is especially sensitive. According to the deployment schedule, at the end of the year, this year, the specific itineraries of disabled people need to be developed. We are told by the affected families that the department has the intention of implementing pilot tests to duplicate these routes in years, from two to four, but we understand that it is necessary to follow up on the challenges that are increasing the number of places to solve a historical gap and also to expand the variety of trainings. And, please, we ask them to make this a priority as they do to the government and to comply, therefore, with what the law says. And secondly, if we recognize the government's effort to reduce early school dropouts and frac cases, we still have only one-third of the students in vocational training who have completed their studies. And, therefore, we have to recognize as the country that has a very high gap in FP and, if the offer in the last two years has increased a lot, it has increased an 80_per_cent, graduation is still much better. And here, Madam Counselor, we ask you to work to reduce the cost of abandonment or low qualification, which are still very high. I have a couple more considerations to make, but maybe I'd leave it for the next time. But in the end, we say that we value positively that your government begins the deployment of the law, but we ask you to be able to dial, we ask you for consent, we ask you to evaluate with the participation of social workers, transparency and above all determination and conviction. And not a minor issue: that the financing does not follow a declaration of intent but that the Generalitat assures an adequate financing, which we do not see at the moment. And we already know that without resources there can be no proper deployment of the law, nor the necessary impetus we want for the FP in Catalonia, and we want to sub-rate it to ensure this adequate funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.139.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, there's the words of the Teaching Advisor, Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.140.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I believe that, in the first place, what we should have placed, and also you have done, is the approval of this law in the mark of an authentic bet of this Parliament and of this country for professional training. One law that they claim to be the regulatory lever to place the FP at the same level as the European countries. Professional training, we are aware that it is an indispensable tool for the future of our students, of our workers and of our businesses; and so the broad consensus that this Parliament has held this law demonstrated. A law that has, as you said, different ends. In the first place, encourage the occupation and professional improvement of our workers. Training as a tool not only of personal progress, but also as a tool of continuous training at the length of life; training as a key tool for business employability and competitiveness, and, above all, the creation of a system that allows you to respond to the challenges and needs of present and future. And so, as you know, and so you could see in our government program, one of the main objectives of this government is the deployment of this FP law, which concerns us and deals with us. This question of today's proposal to ask the Government for explanations about the deployment of this law, and we hope that this will also serve as a hope to continue to enhance and maintain the prestige of professional training in Catalonia. Let's keep in mind the regulatory instability of the Spanish Government, where no major parties have been able, in thirty years, to find an educated consensus to make a law of consensus, to claim the important task that this Parliament has made, leaving aside ideology, to make two laws in the educational sphere that have been based on pedagogy and European models of educational reference. And, as you know, I'm talking about the Education Law – before we discussed it – and this FP Law. Unfortunately, it is also true that from here it seems to break this important consensus and stabilized. And I would also like to make this question a reflection on this fact, because the country, the world of education, the one that is demanded is established, the one that asks is that we agree on a law, the one that asks that there is no change in a law every eight years and the one that asks is that there are marches that give autonomy to the centers to be able to do their job. That's why I also believed... to do it just today. For what he does to the Law of Professional Formation, to know where we find ourselves and what are the steps that this Government is following, first of all to tell him that this law was marked as objective, and thus to reverse its articulation, that the deployment is produced in three years. We are aware that this objective is ambition, and therefore it forces us to work very intensively to soothe it, taking into account, moreover, that we count, therefore, these three_months, from the September elections to the generation that was formed by the government. At any rate, we do believe that when it's important, it's still more important what we do. We have to complete terms, yes, but what we have to do is complete it well. So, let's try to do it right. That's why we're working, from the department to the other departments, like that of Treball, because this deployment is good, and so we're harmonising the criteria to create what we're working, what we're doing, which is a shared vision of what Catalonia's professional training and qualification system is to be, which integrates, as you said, the current subsystems. And we want to put into value this integration of the system, because it's the first time that a law in Spain recognizes this integration of initial vocational training and training for the occupation. What does it mean to integrate? It means that these two systems develop, grow and program together. What we want to put in value is that the students and the final beneficiaries can get – and that's why this law was done – you serve quality. In this deployment, which we are also cooperating and cooperating, all social and economic agents participate in it, apart from the two departments, and this participation of these agents is important, and it has been done through the Catalan Council of Vocational Training, which is now with us the President. Therefore, different proposals for deployment are shared with the agents, and their proposals are valued and integrated into the better part of the system. As we say at the beginning, Catalonia is well placed for what it does to vocational training. First of all, because we are already at the European standards about the percentage of students studying bats and the percentages of students studying vocational training. In Catalonia, in post-compulsory education, there is a 60_per_cent– not above – of students who go to battling and a 41 and a half who go to mid-level teaching. This time we have to say that it's positive, this time it wasn't before; when the P.E. was previously discredited, what we had was a large percentage of students who were going to study batting and very few who trusted in vocational training. This isn't like that anymore. And I have shown this fact that we have a situation in the European media. We are also aware, however, that the deployment of this law and the action we have to take with the agency will also contribute, even more, to the improvement of this prestige and the relevancy of professional training in our country. They also know that for the coming course, and in any case, after the turn of the replica we will have time to talk about it, we talk about the system, we talk about the model, but we also talk about the policies that we are doing in the day-to-day. And that's why we have announced an increase of 7,275 places in post-compulsory studies. Another fact that reflects the good time spent by the FP in this country is the last job placement study of the vocational training cycles: that, before new months of schooling, this insertion is 45_per_cent in the middle and 60_per_cent in the upper grades, in the case of the dual FP. We have to bear in mind that before, when you say, therefore, the percentage of students who may have a middle degree and end up working in jobs that are not exactly related to this area they have studied..., tell him that this happens much more with university students, it is precisely at the PS, how it answers these job needs, we have a greater percentage of students who end up working in that area they have been studying in their professional training. But let's get to the reality that you asked us about the deployment of this law of training and professional qualifications. To the government we are following the calendar; as I said, a calendar that was approved in September 2015, and, as we said, is marked the objective of these three years. This calendar establishes, among other things, the constitution of new governance bodies, so that we have the integration of systems, and the organization of the basic services that the system has; it also includes the regulation of various aspects, such as the creation – it has not been done – of the Public Training and Qualification Agency, an organ that the law foresees as the direction and coordination of the basic services of the system; the regulation and establishment of the network of integrated vocational training centres; the constitution of the governing committee, which must be the strategic planning and evaluation organ of the system; the system of evaluation and accreditation of professional skills, the nine-opportunities programs, the permanent training of teachers, and the training of teachers. Therefore, there are two measures which derive from this law. In this sense, you said, on the 26th of April, the Government made the first statement of this law approving the guidelines that must follow the accreditation and qualification plans that, in this sense, guarantee that there will be a regularity and a regularity in these processes. That is to say, before all these qualification processes depend on an agreement, depend on the government's will for that year. What we are now seeing is that they are multiannual and that the government is committed to this stability and regularity of these processes. They know above all that this plan will address, address, because it is already done, people with a lack of professional qualification so that they can believe and evaluate the skills that they, or those people, have acquired through professional experience and power as well – and it is important – to access additional training. Therefore, these plans are intended to improve people's skills and employability and also to enhance training at the length of their lives. These guidelines, as you also claimed, have been developed not only in the government, but in coordination with the Catalan Council for Vocational Training, one time this has listened to all the different agents. And now tell him – because he has also asked us – that we are already working on the drafting of the first accreditation plan; it has already been done, a working group has already been set up to do, in the first place, the diagnostic of needs, from which, from here on, the objectives of the plan must be detached. One of the most immediate and relevant steps in the deployment is the regulation of the statutes of the Public Professional Training and Qualification Agency, which, as you already know, will be the body that will push the tools designed into this law. At these times we can also say that we are preparing the first draft of the statutes where we will develop, among other things, the functions that we must have, the objectives, the structure, the portfolio of services and the human and economic resources that we will have to dispose of in order to do the tasks that this one has attributed. At the same time – and it's important; you too have done nothing – we're working on creating a foresight tool. That is to say, we need to identify who are the needs of the future in order to be able to take them into account at the time of programming our formations. We can only improve in this sense if we take into account who are the demands of the labour market, who are the needs of the future, and schedule as a function of these. And in any case, then, I'll leave the other two or three questions for the turn of the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.141.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, there's the word Mrs. Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.142.0	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I have not had time before allow me to introduce some new element into the debate on the structure. It is true that the law was talking about the unification of the system, which is now scattered in various departments, under a single department. You know perfectly well the demand, an important demand of certain collections of teaching to maintain this functional dependence of Teaching, and you also know that at the time of the debate on the law the PSC defended the functional dependence of this department, of the Teaching Department. Now, said that, the socialist government is really trying to overcome the traditional dichotomy between Teaching and Work and to guarantee a strong structure to guarantee its real integration. And at these moments we do want to express a certain concern for a structure, that of the agency, which we consider to be weak in the measure that each government could change its adscript; not empty of competitions from the department, nor integrates them, so alone coordinates them, and this seems to us to be an insufficient structure, even until we know the material and human resources to guarantee this desired integration. And, of course, we do want to ask you which one will be... if there's a forecast, which one will be the presuppositionary departure reserved for this agency. In another order of things – and this is not a new debate either, because it also aroused the Greuges Synod not too many weeks in this very same Ple –, we do not understand why a differentiated criterion is established according to the origin of the studies in the exemption of priority obtained for the academic excellence demonstrated in the qualification of the studies envisaged between the students of batxillation and the higher-grade format cycles, which is the competence of the Government of Catalonia. And my question is whether they think of matching this exemption in the regulation of university students' prices, because we think that they would discriminate against that student who came from the FP with respect to those who come from batting that is not tolerable. It is not fair that only students who get excellent baccalaureate can recover the freeness of the subjects and not those of the FP. And, therefore, we ask him what his sense of respect is. On the other hand, we also want to denounce a trait which is common to the rest of the teachings, but which also affects the FP, and which goes to the detriment of its quality, which is the increase in the ratio to the FP and the difficulties of unfolding, because we talk a lot about prestige of vocational training, but this also means allocating to it and prioritizing material and human resources. So, as you said, do it, but do it right. And in the same way that we demand a permanent and continuing formation of the teacher with mediums and with a concrete plan, which we have not just come out here either. However, in order to finish, and to add to the explanation he has made, and to share, therefore, or to celebrate, in any case, this increase of places, say that we must continue to work to combat the frailty or abandonment, but that we must reiterate ourselves in the importance above all of providing the FP with a financing to the extent of the needs of the centres, of the professionals; of a training offer that must be public, obviously, and that must be free, as we have now, with taxes, and that must complement the accreditation to guarantee a trained itinerary leading to qualification; that it is, therefore, respectful of the guarantees of gratuity collected in the sense of Catalonia's autonomy, for the purpose of professional training and promotion of the workers, and that it is working in accordance with the meaning of the principle of integration, that the system of government is effective and that it must be integrated into reality. Therefore, count on my group if it's to advance in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.144.0	Thank you, President. To finish giving an answer to what they give us. In the first part, you also spoke about the dual FP; I would like to give it some data, because I think it is important to increase the dual FP that this country has made. Dual vocational training, as we already see in many other countries, for which it serves, is because our students can do a specific training in the same work center and that is the same work center that is part of the training of these students. And this is important for what makes knowledge of business dynamics, of work dynamics; it is important for what makes knowledge of all, therefore, machinery or all possible innovations that the sector has adapted, and why it still prepares much better our students. So much so that, as I said, the percentage of insertion into the world of work of these students is 60_per_cent. We also have to say that, as at an early stage..., this started at the 11-12 course with five hundred students, now we have five thousand, despite the fact that at that time the government made a great effort to knock on the door of companies, and above all small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the great fabric of this country, at this time it is already the enterprises that ask us to do dual professional training, which means that they have already very well internalized the importance of this possibility. Currently we also have to say that Catalonia, and it has also found itself seeing, therefore, the development and the empowerment of the professional formation, leads the creation of occupation with a 3 and a half percent of the growth, over 3.3 of all Spain; that the tourist tax has fallen to 17,4, when the state is a 21. Therefore, before these taxes, which are still high and are taxes that are neither as a parliament nor as a government, we are pleased that this is the case, we must be aware that we still need more than ever to train our students when the post-compulsory training is completed, because, when the rate of stay improves, our students are able to give an answer to the needs of the workforce. You refer to some concrete issues. Let's start with the scholarship system. In the first place, what we need..., because scholarships for post-compulsory already have – in fact, the law also talks about the scholarship system –, but we need to take an important first step, and it is that we respect the basic skills and do the transfer of these scholarships to the Generality, because at this time the only one left is to manage, with a summons that from the central government public, and, therefore, we have just made the managers of a determined summons from the Spanish State, when the communities of the PSOE like ourselves, become passed, we have told the Minister all those aspects of this summons that we do not share. Therefore, we also need to disregard these skills so that we can make our own scholarship policy. You asked that the terms of the law are complete, we would try to keep it that way, taking into account this, that there was a whole..., about three, four_months in which this, therefore, the situation of Parliament and the Government, was what it was. But we do insist on how we want to do this, and we are convinced that, practically, we will come to complete all the terms that you asked us to do. He talked about specific itineraries for students with special educational needs. He'll see it on the premises. And here I want to connect with many of the petitions you've made. That is to say, we do want to make a bet for vocational training as regards resources; in fact, all the increase in places that we are making is a presuppositional bet for vocational training. But it is also true that there are new initiatives, such as the formatting itineraries for students with special educational needs, which also need a new premise in order to be able to bring these projects forward. Despite that, we did say that there are some pilot projects that we want to pull forward. You were talking about the inscription. We are aware of the position of the unions of the teaching world. Let's say that we always insist that the importance is that the agency works well and that, therefore, I manage well all that the law backs, and that it adheres to that department that most demonstrated ability to manage. In this sense, we have to say that the Department of Education has more than three hundred vocational training centres and, therefore, we can demonstrate this ability. To tell him, finally, that we will study, therefore, one of the proposals he has made to us today, and to highlight this effort that this country has already made in the last few years for this better in the professional formation that has not only shown itself in the increase of places, but also in the better of quality. Despite this, we are very concerned – and this is what we were going to explain to the ministry the past diverging – that we have a Spanish organic law that can end up depressing and deconstructing the prestige of the FP of the last few years, when it proposes alternate itineraries from the fourteen years that take the people of the system and the automatic promotion from one degree to the other oblivion..., or enhancing the route of batting as a way for the students who develop and enhance the path of the FP for the students who do not. In this they will find us totally against because we are very aware that all the years that it has cost in this country to pull forward and prestige the FP do not want it to be loaded in four days. Thank you, Congresswoman, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.145.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The session is suspected until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.146.0	It's part of the session. [[Law proposition of the Catalan education system (debate of totality)]] [[202-00063/10]] The sixth point of the order of the day is the debate of totality on the proposition of law of the education system of Catalonia. In accordance with Article 137.4 of the Rules of Procedure, a representative of the committee responsible for the promotion will present this popular legislative initiative for a maximum of fifteen minutes. There's the word "Mrs. Rosa Cañadell." [[Applause in the public sector.]] Mrs. Cañadell, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.147.0	I find that there are very few people. I thought the deputies and deputies worked a lot. Well, good afternoon to all of you here. To say that it is a great honour for me to present this popular legislative initiative for a new education system in Catalonia, because I am not speaking on my own behalf, I am speaking on behalf of the 63 people of the committee promoting it, of the 170 organisations that have supported it and, above all, of the 95,000 people who have signed this education ILP. Above all, I speak, therefore, on behalf of many peers, mothers, teachers, students and citizens concerned about education and who want a new model education for this country. I take this opportunity to give the basic thanks to all those people who have worked on this ILP, making fedations, writing deeds, collecting signatures, because thanks to them and to them it has been possible for you to arrive here in Parliament. This ILP has nothing to do with the proposal of a sea of the Groga Assembly – which is certainly here, the Cati, hello – which he proposed, in a groga assembly, to combine the protest with the proposal, and has been elaborated on the basis of the daily experiences and yearnings of a good number of couples and seas, teachers, students and social agents linked to education. We all wrote and worked for this ILP with the conviction that it was possible to restore our education system and make it more just, more egalitarian..., that you bet on quality and innovation, that you can make it free for everyone and that you face the anomaly of educational concerts once and for all. This is not a proposed law, drawn up and developed. The one we propose, the one we come here to explain to you, are some basics, some minor lines, that we think are essential to basing a new law of education for a new country. It's not an elaborate law, I repeat. These are the foundations that we believe, the principles that we believe, that should guide the debate through a new law of education for this new country. They are some of the bases, plus, consensus and drafting from the bottom up and from the educational community. We believe that this also has an important value. Why a few new bases? So why don't the ones we have don't serve. Let's remember that the LEC has overturned the opposition of almost 90_percent of the faculty and of the very important part of the educational community. That's what Ernest Maragall himself recognized. We remember that we have a general opposition against LOMCE, but that LOMCE, in fact, was inspired by the LEC. In fact, many of the things that are critical of LOMCE are already in the LEC. We remember that we have families mobilized, still now, for the closure of groups to public schools. Remember that we have an important share of families that can't take their infants to the nursery because they don't have any money. We remember that a large number of young people, each time more, unfortunately, can't get into college because they can't pay for it. Let's remember that we have a poor child of 28_per_cent and some groceries that don't reach 25_per_cent of this 28_per_cent. We remember that we have a faculty also mobilized for some working conditions that do not allow them to do their job well. We remember that we have public educational centres every couple of times less democratic and less participatory, and we have a double network with private and concerted centres that simply segregate according to the social class of the student and that take public money, money of all, to pay the privileges of a few. Remember that only the seven centers in Opus Dei win 25_million a year while we have barracks in public centers, lots and lots. Before all this and many more things that I do not have time to explain, the promoters and promoters of this ILP decided to set up, as I said, a new educational paradigm that we return to a public education like that which the masters of the Republic had sown and for which many died, like some of our teachers, like Ferrer and Guardia or Marta Mata, or as we had begun to build after the Transition, a time ended the long night of the franchise; a public education, community education, for the benefit of people, and not the interests of the markets or of the large private foundations. For all this, this ILP offers many things. I'll say three or four of those that I think are the most important. The first is total gratuity, from bressol to university. We are convinced that the only way to do the right to education, that everyone seems to have very clear, just like everyone else is free. We don't want no child to be left without school, no young person without university, no child without food, no school material. And all that's possible. It is possible because poor countries, with Cuba or with Uruguay, have it, and very admired countries for all of us, with Finland or Germany, also have it. Catalonia can take it too, because it deserves it. The second red line is the progressive reduction of educational concerts to their disappearance. We want a single, generalized network. We want all those private concerted centres that really want to make a public service, that want to function as a public school, to move on to the public network, managed publicly, as they did for the eighties the schools of the Cepepc. It's not an impossible thing. It is something that has already been done and that, therefore, could continue to be done. But what we do want is that public money, all public money, vacates public schools, managed and supervised publicly and for the community. And all that for what? It's not a whim. Look, this thing that in this country has been telling us for years that it's the most normal of the world is an anomaly, it's an exception in the European Union countries. In fact, when you explain it to a Frenchman, to an Italian, they put their hands to the head, that with public money they function in private centers, mostly religious, with the amount with which they function in this country. But it's that, besides, this is an inheritance of Francoism, which as we all know gave education to religious employers. But, besides, the concerts were born to be subsidiary to the public school, to get there where the public did not get there because there were no centers, but they were not born to stay, to consolidate and expand, which is what the new law of Catalonia made. The concerts, or the concert formula, that we are not against either the centers or the faculty, but yes the formula, it is socially unfair, as I said before, because it means that with the money of all and all, with the money of the workers, that they are the ones who pay the most taxes, we subsidize privileges of those they have the most, that it coincides that they are the ones who pay the least taxes, more so. But to this we must add that this double network is the main, not the only, but it is the main, source of educational segregation. We have centres of different categories stratified according to the returns and the social class. And that's totally negated. It's socially unfair, but it's more of a pedagogic denial. Why? Because diversity, real diversity, is positive. Because the ghettos, whether immigrants or children, are denied. Because if the guys and the girls, the rich, the poor, the nationals and the strangers, go to school together, we win two things: one, we socialize our young people much better, so they learn to live with the real diversity of society, but more they get better school results, which always gets stuck. Therefore, this exclusion, this brecxa between some centers and others, is negative from all points of view. For this reason, we remember, in the European Union, the middle school student studying at private centres not up to 10_per_cent. We're in 40, and in some places at 50 or 60, here in Catalunya. Finland's not up to 3 percent, this country where we're all admiring each other. And also remember that the right to education equals for all children – "I mean equal, not exactly equal – is in front of the right of some families to go to school. The third question we are asking is the democratic recovery of the centres. Look, in the eighties, we managed to get the director's body to disappear and the centers to be democratic and participatory. Now it looks like they're going back. This time when the public school was really democratised, when the participation of the students, the parents and the seas, the community, worked, was the time of most innovation. I want to remind you that educational innovation in this country has basically been made by public schools. Finally, some of the practices that are now being endorsed and advertised as major innovations, especially when private centers do them, have been doing them for a long time, and some are still doing them, public centers. But in order to do this, it requires democracy and participation, and joint management. Because education is a collective task. There are no good centre projects if they are not developed and agreed for the cloister, for families, for the workforce and for the barrier. Therefore, we do not want chosen addresses to say for the Administration, nor do we want teacher chosen to say for the directors, nor do we want a system of education segregated between centers, no longer public and private, of rich and poor, but now, moreover, the innovators and those who are not so innovative, and those who seem not to be people. We don't want banks and businesses to go to schools and adopt our student. It seems lying and embarrassing that the banks, which have swindled and tangled, now enter the schools to explain that well they do things and to explain their version of the facts. School is sacred, and businesses and banks have nothing to do. [[Greetings.]] We don't want ratings that are used to rank either. At this time, at the Teaching Department, from external evaluations, we already have centers a, b, c, d. Now, in a while, I guess we'll have some, uh, f, g... that's not a good public system. A good public system, always looking at us Finland, is one that parents and mothers don't have to think about five minutes to which center they school their boys and girls, because everyone school in the center of the bar, which it touches, because all centers are of the same category and quality. And that's what we want. We want centres that work democratically, that educate for and in democracy, that educate for solidarity and not for competitiveness, and that help people, that help to make people who are free, critical and wise; we don't want the school to serve only to make workers and acrylic workers and months. With the fourth condition [[applause]] We also want, of course, decent conditions for teachers and teachers: we do not want to masseize classrooms; we do not want teachers to have hours or so alone to meet, so that we can put in common strategies and what problems there are; we do not want substitutions not to arrive; we do not want reductions that are not copper; we do not want wages that are not paid, and we do not want precarious contracts. With these current conditions it is not possible to give a good education, which really all the students deserve. Finally – there are many more things, but it no longer gives time – it is obvious that for all of this there are prerequisites at the height of the country. Look, it's a bit of a shame that Catalonia, which is so full of itself and now we're building a country that's so dirty and so good, turns out that it dedicates – it dedicates – to education a percentage lower than the middle of the rest of the State, when, more than anything else, the rest of the State or the joint venture of the State already dedicates a percentage lower than that of the rest of the European Union; really – really – a society that doesn't invest in education, a society that doesn't care, that doesn't care and, therefore, doesn't dedicate to what it has to dedicate to education is a society that has fallen short, because the country that we're going to have today depends on the education that we have. Therefore, obviously, the ILP is set as basic principles a principle, I remember, that is already in the LEC; a principle in which you say that in education you have to invest a 6_per_cent. It's funny: all the chapters of the LEC are to be completed, because you say the law, but this is not complete, it has never been more complete and nothing more than anything else. It's a real shame. Well, to conclude, I would say that it seems common sense that in the legislature of disconnection and the opening of a period, a popular legislative initiative for this new country, this ILP, on a basis for a new educational law was very bad; in fact, we thought it would be that way, because talking about education is a fundamental thing for any country, whether or not it is in that period, but if it is, it is even more so. Unfortunately, it seems that both the PP and Junts per el Si have announced a threat to the totality that would prevent us from continuing with the debate. We expect it to be reconsidered, because we wouldn't actually understand it – we wouldn't understand it – because that would mean less to all people, 95,000 who have signed and all who have worked on it, and it would also mean less to democracy, because I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen: why do they make an ILP law, why do they tell the city that they can present bills of law, if in five minutes..., in fifteen, go, in fifteen minutes they think to pull it out? This? Is that dialog? Is that democracy? [[Greetings.]] We would not understand that independent people, some of whom, in my youth, had been referring to the struggle for democracy, and some MPs and party MPs, such as D'Esquerra Republicana, who have signed and voted in favour of the ILP in their municipalities now voting against continuing the dialogue and debate. For all this – for all this – we encourage all the Members..., not since I approve of all the basic principles that we lay with this law, which we would already like and think would be very positive; we ask at this point that we are able to let the debate prosper. This country needs – it needs – a good debate on education and launching a proposal, a proposal that sees from the base, a proposal that would help solve some problems, a proposal on which it could suffice this new law of education that this country needs. Do not forget – do not forget – that, because another country is possible, another education is absolutely necessary. Thank you. [[Crits in the public sector and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.148.0	Thank you, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Crits and applause persist.]] Please, ask the public to keep the smell. [[Pause.]] In addition, for the defense of the totality presented for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word "Mrs. María José García".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.149.0	Thank you, President. ILP representatives, ladies and gentlemen, firstly we would like to thank the members of this ILP promoter platform for their work and presentation in this Parliament. Democracy is based on the recognition of plurality, on respect for the discrepancy and on the legitimacy of any solution that does not contradict the basic legal principles governing our coexistence. We face this debate under two premises. The first is that from the People's Party we agree with the promoters of the ILP in their goal of promoting quality public education for Catalonia that guarantees equity and equal opportunities. And the second premise is that it is our priority to defend radically freedom and individual rights recognized in legality. [[Pause and voice of the background.]] Freedom and rights which, in the field of education, and as recognized in the Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the European Parliament, the Constitution and the Statute, are enshrined in freedom of education, the right of parents to choose the education of their children and the right of pupils to receive education on an equal basis and without discrimination. We must therefore appreciate the ILP proposals we are discussing; on the one hand, if they are fair, realistic and effective as a means of achieving the objective, which we share, of improving public education. And, on the other hand, whether they are proposals that respect the system of individual freedoms and rights that we have to guarantee. To begin with, it is important to explain what we mean by education to know what we are asking of the education system. For us the objective of education is to train free people, who, from the talents and skills of each of them, acquire the skills necessary to choose the type of life they want to lead and thus contribute and enrich society. A first figure in this regard is the 140,000 young Catalans, between sixteen and twenty-four years old, a 22_per_cent, who neither study nor work, three points more than the Spanish average and six points more than the European average. Or the failure and drop-out rates, very high in Catalonia for the socio-economic and cultural level we have. These data represent the objective failure of an educational model that has proved unable to properly train our students as well as to effectively retain sufficient time to guarantee them more and better opportunities after their passage through the education system. The current system is not a model of success, it is a model of structural failure, which effectively penalizes public education, the most difficult pupils and those with a lower cultural environment; an absolutely unequal model; a rigid model in opportunities and permissive in results. And it is true that any evidence external to the centers or the system, with all its imperfections, such as PISA or basic skills, indicate that the results of students from public centers are inferior to the results of students from private centers; that the lowest results are concentrated in public centers and low excellence in private centers. These are evaluations of the Bofill Foundation or the Conseil de Treball, Economique i Social de Catalunya. We are therefore faced with a reality that violates the principles of our legality, because we are burdened with the equity and equality of opportunity that should be provided by the public education service and that forces us politically and morally to react to correct it. The question is whether or not the ILP proposal we are discussing is the solution to the problem, because only on the basis of the right premises, of the right diagnosis, can we propose correct solutions that are fair, realistic and sensible. In this sense, the explanatory statement of the text starts from the responsibility of private education for the failure of the public, concluding that a single network of public institutions could ensure the success of equitable and equal education. Well, for us, the failure of public education comes from factors other than private education. First, because the public has been applying the LOGSE-LOE pedagogical model for thirty years, which is characterized by the idea of learning to learn, prioritizing learning methodologies against the concept of intellectual capital, which prioritises knowledge-based and competence-based culture. And for educators and pedagogues, in the face of learning by discovery, it seems today more effective learning by association and assimilation of knowledge, which also works better equipped to a fair and objective system of qualification, a system of incentives that encourages the effort, the overcoming and the development of capacities that children, all of them, have in very similar proportions in their early childhood. In short, it is very difficult to make progress in learning without establishing previous knowledge, and hence the importance of avoiding thematic or competitive gaps that seem to be the constant of our model. Primary teachers complain that many children start first without basic reading and writing skills; high school teachers complain that many students arrive at ESO without the minimum knowledge of important, basic subjects, such as mathematics, language or science; university teachers complain that many students, despite having passed an access test, have elementary gaps and even lack of spelling; many parents and teachers feel that students do not learn at least at each stage before moving to the next, and students themselves face the frustration of passing a course in order to obtain a degree that does not always enable them to successfully continue university training or to gain access to the job they would like. And, from our point of view, social initiative centres are not to blame for this. It is true that in general these centres of social initiative, and especially those that are generally considered more successful, take advantage of the space of autonomy of center that allows them by law to promote the culture of effort and learning by association and assimilation of knowledge; it is true that they introduce valuation systems that operate as incentives to effort and to overcome; they have reinforcements; formative alternatives that help no one to stay behind and that all can develop their potential, without limiting anyone and without parking anyone. But the private centers, look, are not responsible for the public centers not being able to do the same, it will in any case be the responsibility of the competent administration, in this case the Generalitat of Catalonia, for the passivity and the inefficiency with which they face the bad educational results. In fact, there are other autonomous administrations, such as Navarra, Castile and León, Madrid, the Basque Country or La Rioja, where these years have taken advantage of the margin of autonomy to correct as far as possible the state model that we have had so far, the socialist LOGSE-LOE, encouraging the effort and acquisition of competences. And in these communities, look, there isn't such a big gap between public and private centers. In short, it does not seem to us right or sensible that the centres of social initiative are the head of Turkish of the unforgivable failure, it is true, of public education in Catalonia. Let us first look at the Generalitat, at its educational policies or at the traps in the solitary one who has been making himself to mask reality for so many years. But it is also that harming private education by expelling that of the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya would have two important consequences. The first, the problem of the structural failure of the lower-opportunity public to go to a public centre would remain unresolved, apart from the fact that all students who, due to economic problems, left these private centres would also be affected by the ills of the public system. And secondly, the rights of families who today go to these concerted centres, who pay their taxes, who are not responsible for the sectarianism or for the mismanagement of the Generalitat, and who have the right to choose for their children an education according to their values would be reduced. But not because the LEC says so and amending the LEC eliminates this right; it is because, as we said at the beginning, they are regulations of a legal status higher than the LEC, such as the Organic Education Act, the Constitution, the Declaration of Rights and Freedoms of the European Parliament or the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights which protect and enshrine as basic principles the freedom of education and the right of parents to decide the education of their children. And it must be recognized that this Parliament is not competent to amend any of these rules; therefore, not even accepting the idea – which is not correct to us – that to improve public education we must put an end to freedom of education and we must put an end to the right of parents to choose; not even accepting that idea would be possible in competitive terms to do so from this Parliament. In this respect, and it is another of the arguments for presenting the amendment as a whole, the proposal that you present to us has competition problems, because, although it is feasible from this Parliament to repeal the LEC, what is not feasible is to adopt instead a Catalan education law that contradicts higher-ranking legislation and jurisprudence by limiting or repealing recognized and existing individual freedoms and rights. In this respect, we are referring – as has already been mentioned – to the freedom of education, which would de facto be curtailed if any social educational initiative were to be self-financed, the Administration being the only one competent to implement viable educational projects in economic terms, a situation which we would have of interventionism, imposition and lack of educational plurality, which we not only do not support from the People's Party, but which we believe would run counter to the democratic values and practices that the ILP itself claims to defend. We also refer to the right of parents to choose the education of their children without discrimination and on an equal basis, a right that would automatically be eliminated if only the educational models decided by the Administration could be chosen and that could only be guaranteed on an equal basis if any legal educational initiative could obtain a public subsidy that made it available to any family. In fact, leaving private institutions without concert would create a situation of discrimination on an economic level, as only families who could afford it could keep their children in the educational model of their preference. And we also refer to other existing rights that are being violated – from our point of view – with this proposal for a new law on Catalan education, such as the right of any Catalan student to receive part of his teaching in Spanish, a right that is widely recognized by any court – High Court of Justice of Catalonia, Supreme Court, Constitutional Court – and also in legislation, such as the Statute, the LEC, the Law on Linguistic Policy, the law that the Generalitat de facto violates every day, but against the existing legality, and the law that would be violated by the ILP that seeks to impose, as it says, the universal and compulsory linguistic immersion, that is, the exclusive education in Catalan. Or the right to education is in a subsidized differentiated model, provided that there is no inequality in the quality of education, according to the gender of the pupils, as expressed by UNESCO in the convention on combating discrimination in the field of education. Or the right to receive moral and religious formation, as stated in the Constitution, because our State is not secular, it is non-confessional, another constitutional principle that is violated in the ILP. Or the constitutional right of educational institutions to be assisted by the Administration provided that they meet the legal requirements, and the legal requirements, according to the Organic Education Act, are not limited to the restrictive criterion that the ILP imposes that they be of public ownership. In summary, as we have seen, the proposal of this ILP is incompatible in many respects with the Catalan legal framework, Spanish, even European, or in the United Nations environment, and for this reason, beyond its goodness, its convenience or its justice, is an unfeasible proposal to process in the Autonomous Parliament of Catalonia, from where we can process legal amendments according to the competences of our statute, but never contradicting or modifying principles or norms contained in regulations of higher legal rank. On the other hand, and as we said at the beginning, at the beginning of our speech, the initiative presented to us does not, from our point of view, make a correct diagnosis of the causes of the problem that is intended to be corrected, so the proposals it offers do not believe that they are the solution to the problem. In addition, we understand that its implementation would create additional problems and worsen the system as a whole. As we said, we share the ILP's goal. We believe that it is radically fair and necessary to find the legislative changes and changes in public management that bring to our public education system the quality possibilities that place it on equal opportunities in terms of means and results than any other educational project of social initiative, but to do so we believe that the solution is not to eliminate individual rights or to attack projects of social initiative by turning them into elitist options. For us, the public educational revolution must begin from within giving autonomy to the centers so that they can freely and honestly value and apply the educational principles that they consider most correct; allocating to the public system the necessary resources, but not detracting from those of other educational centers that are efficient and that are providing quality to the system, but reducing and thinning the Catalan public sector, the public client sector of the Generalitat that is costing us 6,000_million_de_euros– check whether we have here to cut and distribute –; motivating teachers, demanding excellence but encouraging those with training, with prestige, with recognition, liberating those from the corset of the decree of templates, guaranteeing the stability and just working conditions. In short, we believe that the Generalitat can change the educational culture, promoting the excellence and culture of the effort, impartial and objective accountability, autonomy and freedom, respect, recognition of diversity, inclusion, improving the educational budget at the expense of the client structure. And all this – all this – we are sure that it would improve equity and equal opportunities in public school and parents could choose the center of their preference more in line with the model and the values they prefer, confident of the quality of education that their children will receive outside the center's ownership. This is the model of success and the guarantee of individual rights and freedoms that we defend and that we believe is incompatible with the approach of this ILP, which justifies our amendment to the whole. Finally, please note that in order to improve the financing of public education, to shield that of interventionism and the ineffective management of the Generalitat, to support and promote the necessary changes that in other communities and in other countries have improved the public system, know that they always have the People's Party of Catalonia. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the ILP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, for the defense of the totality emena presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word Ms. Anna Simó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.151.0	Councillor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mrs Cañadell – and I return to the greeting I just received from the promoters of the ILP from the Llotja – members of the educational community, we have already spoken on various occasions, both the last legislature and this one, surely, therefore, they will hate about the way I can explain to them now, I refer to the interlocutors, at various meetings of..., to the promoters of the ILP. And the thesis of my intervention, which I will summarise now, I am sure that they also have it very present, but for our parliamentary group it is essential to have it very present always because, in the end, it is about completing an electoral programme. It's a bad habit, it's to complete election programs, but we've decided to do it. We were going to draw up an application programme which would keep the LEC, so as not to derogate from it, "to develop it, so as not to derogate from it, and at the same time, in a short time, to work for a new national education pact which serves as the basis for a new law without autonomous competition restrictions. And with that, we want to complete it. And it is clear that the moment we are as a country and with the objective of what we have come to do in this Parliament and from the government – as Mrs Cañadell said – it is common sense that at this point we are debating a country pact. The promotion of the national pact, I quote textually from the electoral programme: « Promote a national pact that elaborates the foundations of the future law of education of Catalonia in order to organize a proper education system, of inclusive school success, to which is intended a minimum investment of 6_percent of GDP, as fixed by the LEC, in a term of eight years since approval. So it is clear, of course, that we want a country debate, that we want to start without delay a country debate open to everyone, and not in a debate mark of the future Catalan constitution, and not in a debate mark of the coming legislature. Now. In the next few months, and if it can be in the next few weeks, better. And that I'm part of who wants to be in the brands I want to be. A debate to establish two things: the changes in the education system, which are falling, and the foundations of the future Catalan law of education with exclusive competence, because, obviously – as everyone knows – we do not have exclusive competence. And from here we mourn a part of the creature. Parentheses. They cannot compare LOMCE or LOMQE with LEC. I don't want to, we don't want to do it because the process that lasted for one law and the other one assembles one or a chestnut – one or a chestnut. And more so, because it's curious that, if they look like the LEC and the LOMCE, as it is practically resorted to the whole Constitutional Court, as well as its development. I'm in parentheses. And in this debate there must be face-to-face interventions and also working documents, the debate that can be made from the School Council of Catalonia, very wide; the debate that can be made from the faculties of pedagogy and the sciences of education, obviously, of the country's arrest, from the federations of associations of seas and pairs of pupils, from the movements of pedagogical renewal, from the employers of the concerta – which I will talk about for a moment – from the think tanks of the educated world, from the objectives of this ILP, which must not go to paperwork. Why do you have to go to the paper mill? No, no, In this debate, no. Those whom the educational community considers, will or debate, the same LEC, or the express conclusions of the National Education Pact that was discussed yesterday by the Parliament's Education Commission. But there's not enough to discuss it, no. That's not enough. Because, as I said, we are going to debate the competitions that we don't have right now and that we want to assume in the post-constituent process, here, in Parliament, as I said, and in all the forums that come up and all the forums that come up. And since we're talking about a country pact, so I have to make a reference to the 2006 National Education Pact, which is what gave little to the LEC. And we can assert, even with a hint of bitterness, if you want, that what was raised in the national pact as basic questions to solve, to resolve, remain in force now, two years later. For example, solve the dysfunctions that the dual educational offering network can generate, but from the point of view I'm going to tell you now. And how's that working out? That's the LEC's approach. That what is then called "educational public service" and that the LEC says "educational services of Catalonia" is the mark where the competition between the public school and the private school of social character is concrete, which must allow the publicly supported centres to work with objectives, rights and rights, without confrontations – without confrontations – between this part of the education service of Catalonia. That is why I am moving forward to what I wanted to comment on before, and let me tell you, Mrs. Cañadell, that saying that the concerted centres are an anomaly and an inheritance of Francoism, in any case – and of other things that have been written with respect – cannot be a good starting point for a debate that seeks consensus, that it is those that facilitate changes to prevail over time, that changes persist enough over time, that it is of which we always complain and the whole educational community is a complaint that has not passed with Spanish organic laws. What other questions remain in force? A lot. But to promote new forms of organization of public centres, and this is the opposite of homogenising the system; or to incorporate elements of esteem – this has been referred to, too – to the professional career of the teachers; or to identify and put into practice the lines of cooperation with families; or to identify and put into practice the lines of cooperation and co-responsibility with the assemblies. Because, frankly, if this ILP wants to refocus local skills and homogenize the education system, it cannot be a good starting point for a debate that is acceptable to the debate that is produced by Europe. I said: "There are questions in force. A lot of others. What is the will of this debate that we want to push, that we have committed ourselves to pushing like deputies and deputies of Junts for the Yes? Go to the fund. What's the point? Of equal opportunities, to go to the background for the fairness of the education system, to go to the background for the inclusion of the education system and to go to the background of the role of education far beyond mere, which is not a small thing, transmission of knowledge. The education system must all agree, and so did the 2006 National Pact, which is one of the most powerful instruments to overcome the socio-cultural and socioeconomic differences of the students. And, therefore, this is the great assignment, too, that we must debate. As I said, in the autonomy of the centres, in the participation and motivation of the teachers, and the families, and the students, towards the educational projects of the centres. I don't want to go into the bases now and into the debate beyond these three brushes that I'm doing, because we'll have an opportunity, of course, in this immediate future to do so. But I would like to add the last reflection: if this ILP wants to replace the LEC with another autonomous law seven years later, we understand that it cannot be a good starting point for a debate that must facilitate the need for the education system to be stabilized and, especially, that it must be a debate oriented towards the future educational model of the new state. They say in the ILP's motivating statement: "It is for all this that, in the exceptional circumstances that Catalonia sees, we have to place as part of the national debate the need for a public school of quality and for everyone, to reverse the educational ideal of the Catalan school as the first public service builder of citizenship and to work for social cohesion and equal opportunities. That is, a democratic citizenry, free, equality and solidarity. And, in agreement with this intention and in accordance with Article 131 of the Statute – we want to overcome this Article 131 of the Statute, which is the one that redistributes the competences– « that we should have a law with the capacity to generate a stable standard, that favored the majority of the citizenry– I would say « that favored the whole of the citizenry– « consensus with the educational community and with the declared will of service to the new generations. So this is the point of finding: the will of debate and this objective we share. A country pact that allows to face with guarantees of success the reduction..., went so far as to say, of the school failure, the maximization of the school success, the improvement of the performance of the student, of his competitions, of his autonomy as a citizen, in a_marc, as said, of equity and equal opportunities. And that means a sustained, stable, well-established, well-funded, standard framework that emerges and that enhances the essential educational activity of the centres and the faculty. Because the changes have fruit and are robust we are well aware that we must have consensus and compromise from society, from the educational community and from the teachers. This ILP is a goal to the totality of the LEC, it is a goal to the totality of the National Pact for Education. And so now what we're doing is discussing totality issues. And once we have discussed these issues to the totality that we have presented, tomorrow, to say 'tomorrow for a future, we have to be able to debate all the questions so as to complete the Junts per el Sí electoral program of promoting and making a national pact that elaborates the foundations of the future law of education in Catalonia, for a system of education that is appropriate, of school success included..., and of the relevant changes that need to be made in the education system. I don't think it's going to be easy, it's going to be very complex, and the objectives are very ambitious, but we all need to be able to reach consensus, to expand the consensus that has already been achieved. And this parliamentary group commits itself to making every effort to complete this part of Junts' electoral program for the Yes, as we make every effort to complete our electoral program and the plan of government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Further, in accordance with the amendment of Article 14 of Law 1/2006, of the People's Legislative Initiative introduced for Law 7/2014, there may be a turnaround on the part of the representative of the Commission promoting it for a maximum of five minutes. Therefore, has the word Rosa Cañadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.153.0	Thank you. Well, there have been many fears, many questions, many contradictory things, which, obviously, I would like to be able to answer..., which I think there are more people, Members and Members..., than surely also..., as well as civil society, also. I would say that the amount of things that have come out here shows what we are asking for, and that is that I continue the debate. Because there's a lot of fear in the debate, because there's a lot of fear in the table. And that's what we were asking for at these times. We asked that the ILP not be thrown into the rubble, the proposals that came from the citizenry. That said, I will try to answer a couple of them, just because in five minutes, obviously, the debate is very small and very little fruitful. I would say to Mrs. María José García that you analyze, study and read a little better the PISA reports and it is not left to the superficial thing and the news that they give in the diaries, that they get used to being, basically, alarmists. Look, the PISA reports tell the contrary of what Mrs. María José García has said. She says that public centers have the worst results for methodology, for I don't know how many things, and that this is the weakness of public education, and that private centers have success and have better results because I don't know how many more things. Look, the PISA reports show two very important things, which often don't come out but if you look for them... all in the reports. One: with the socio-economic equality of the students, they get exactly the same notes as the children who go to public centres as those who go to private centres. It is not true that the public school, although it has less resources, despite the fact that it has concentrated the student with more difficulties, despite the fact that it does not have a double funding..., despite all this, with equal socioeconomic conditions, the student obtained the same school result. That's not a public failure! This is a public success! [[Greetings.]] And the second thing that the PISA reports also show, if it's grateful for a little and it's looking at with a little depth, that I think it's what it is to do, is that, precisely, the student strip that belongs to the highest socioeconomic class turns out to have inferior school results, in this strip, that the rest of the European Union, this strip everyone knows that goes to private school, while the bass strip, the student strip with less economic and social resources, is over the European middle of the student strip with less economic resources. This is a success for the public, not the private! [[Greetings.]] Therefore, since you say that if something is analyzed, it must start with a good diagnosis, when a diagnosis is made, look at it a little more deeply. This is something I think is very important. Another very important issue is the right choice of parents and mothers, etc. Look, the right to choose elite centers is not a right. It's a privilege of those who can afford it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.154.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.155.0	Well, to Anna Simó I would just say one very important thing, and it's that if you really want to make a new law of education, if really the objectives are the same, for which seven below you don't let this prosper, don't let the bases that come from civic consent, etc., be the basis to start basing this new law of education that you want to do? That's what we don't understand. And so, as we do not understand, we are surprised and quite outraged that precisely the parliamentary group talking about participatory processes and the joint constitution, and all these stories, turns out that now it wants to abort the debate. We think that if you want to expand the bases for this new state, this is not the way. Not listening to the proposals coming from the citizenry will not help to extend this process that is to be achieved. It also makes us think, this negative, that maybe there is, that maybe Junts for the Yes, or some Junts for the Yes, has why people know it in which way they finance private business with public money, which is known in which way is mercantilitza education, how they introduce forms of private management to public schools... In short, as not at all do they carry the public system of this country, a public education that had been an example and referent for many years and what we would like to return to. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. But, despite that, we will continue. I assure you that, despite the fact that we believe that it means that we do not allow the debate, I do not say that I do not approve what we have proposed, but that we do not allow the parliamentary debate to go forward..., that does not mean that if the parliamentary debate has been withdrawn..., it will continue, and this I assure you, the social debate. [[Greetings.]] You can kill the debate, but the ILP and the proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.156.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.157.0	...will remain alive. And I hope, I hope and trust that with this new law we will be able to recover, or you will be able to recover, the foundations that we have presented, that you are sure that you will build this Catalan public school that this country really needs. Thank you. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.158.0	Next, let's move on to the turn of the rest of the groups. [[The applause continues.]] Please... [[Pause.]] Please... thank you. Next, let's move on to the turn of the rest of the parliamentary groups to fix their position. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.159.0	Contradictions. [[The president gives the words to María José García Cuevas.]] Thank you, President. With regard to the... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... the Member, because it is not the depth of the study or analysis that I have had to make this intervention. It is a question of consulting the reports of the Bofill Foundation, as I have said, of the fairness of Catalonia, or also the own of the Generalitat of Catalonia, of the Consell del Traball, Economic i Social, with which, if it has been intended to discredit the speech of this deputy, because it is not to discredit this deputy, but to the Bofill Foundation itself. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.160.0	It has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.161.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, the members of the chamber and the promoters of the ILP who are accompanying us today. Since today we are talking about signing gatherings, I would like to begin by saying that a group of teachers from the Autonomous University of Barcelona three days ago began a gathering of signatures to protest because the President of the Parliament took over Mr Otegi, and on only three days they have almost fourteen_ thousand signatures. The ILP of what... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.162.0	Mrs. Sonia Sierra, this morning she's off the subject, now she's doing it again. Please go back to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.163.0	I'll be right back, on the right track. The ILP we are talking about today has the support of 95,000 signatures, and from this point of view, all our respect for the work of volunteers, because we know that they have worked very hard, for a long time and without any support or collection of communication media. [[Some applause.]] And, said that, we have spoken on different occasions with the promoters of the ILP, always a very cordial conversation, but, from the cordiality, they already know that we do not collect, or much less, this ILP. We agree, however, with the criticism they make of the LEC, because it is a law..., when it was done, at the time, it had a lot of political support, but today – which has changed the correlation of political forces – it no longer has this political support, and, moreover, the LEC has never had the support of the educational community, and every day it has less support of the educational community. We are in favour of a national education pact that has the support of parties and also of the educational community, which does not happen with the LEC, nor with LOMCE, but neither with this ILP, because despite having many signatures at the end, there is not enough political consensus – we can see this in this debate – but neither has the consent of the educational community, and, in fact, the majority of unions do not collect this ILP. For what it does in content, we already find in the first article a position contrary to Ciutadans, because, as everyone knows, we are still defenders of multilingualism, as we can see in this Parliament, since we are the only party that has served the three official languages: Catalan, Arabic and Spanish. And at the schools we think there must be more than one vehicle language, in line with the best educational systems in the world. In the face of this multilingualism that we consider desirable, in this ILP we find a militant monolingualism. At point 2 of the article, we say – and I quote it textually – that "Catalan is normally the language of use in teaching and the language of usual communication between the educational community – so I quote it –..., all the while obviating not only the Spanish language, that it was the majority language in Catalonia, as well as the foreign language, that it was the official language and, without doubt, that it was the rich one that we did not want to protect. Continue, this same point, talking about linguistic immersion as the method used. Here I can only make clear the lack of rigour terminology, because "linguistic immersion" means exposure to a second language, with which the pupils who have the català as their mother tongue do not have linguistic immersion, but simply a monolingual education in their usual language. So we can't talk about linguistic immersion as a method, when this method doesn't serve half of the student. And we could not miss, if we talked about this subject, the subject of linguistic immersion, the mantra of social cohesion. And, look, they can repeat it as much as they do, actually, because this mantra, this mantra of linguistic immersion as a guarantor of social cohesion, we feel in Catalonia more than the mantras in Ghana in India. And they think that, according to Hinduism, every time they start singing mantras they start for Ganeixa; they can already count the times they sing mantras to Ganeixa. So, the more social cohesion we have here. But, as much as they say, it's not true, because there is no international academic student who talks about the language vehicle as an item in social cohesion. And it's no wonder that I didn't study at any international world academic, because the system that is served here, in Catalonia, is not served at all. There is no country where it is not possible to study in an official language, which, moreover, is the majority, which is what unfortunately happens here and which this ILP wants to continue passing. For what he does to the right to education, we agree that everyone has a right to a quality education, but we cannot agree that this necessarily involves a single public body, because then this right comes into collusion with another right, constitutional right, which is the right to freedom of choice. And neither can we agree that this is impossible, for example, that people can group in cooperatives and set up alternatives to the system, as is the case with living school models. In this sense, I invite the promoters of this ILP to visit concerted schools, pioneers, not only in Catalonia, but all of Spain, such as El Carrilet or El Llindar. Carrilet is a school specialized in children with autism that works as a cooperative since 1974 and is a reference not only in the treatment of these creatures but also in the training of professionals. For its band, the Llindar Foundation is a second-opportunity school where teenagers who have not just found their place in the ordinary system have a good education, and in many cases they can believe a title is already ESO or professional module. And they do it in correspondence with businesses, which is another thing that this ILP denies, that there may be a school-business relationship. In this case, I went to visit the school and actually the result is very positive. Despite our obvious differences in the content of this ILP, it is always possible for us to debate education and to express our ideas. And I humbly believe that the people we were in the classroom four days ago have a lot to bring into this debate. We don't have the debate, years on the contrary, we think that the debates are necessary for the good health of democracy, and we also believe that it is very positive that the citizenry that proposed this type of debate is. And that's why we propose to our national program that we halve the number of signatures to boost the popular initiative for the presentation of law proposals. And not only that: we also propose that the collection of electronic signatures be facilitated, that they be taken into consideration in three months, before three months, and that one of its representatives be able to defend it directly to the commissions. The problem that has arisen with this ILP is that the promoters have sent a letter only to the independent deputies, that is to say they seem to have considered that this issue does not involve the deputies that we are not independent, and in this letter they relate the ILP to the process they constitute. It is obvious that from Citizens we do not believe this process constitutes and take education seriously to tackle the better needs of the Catalan education system with the construction of a new country, which, to begin with, does not even have the support of most Catalans. Despite this, we will not object to the fact that the debate is possible. We think we need to talk about better and seek consensus between the political forces and the educational community, but the whole educational community, not just a part. In the National Education Pact, we propose to reach these consensuses, and when we say that a debate is to be held with everyone, I mean: public school, concerted school, private school, differentiated schools and cooperatives presenting alternative education models. It does not seem to me that it is a good idea to start the debate on the basis of the proposed elimination of an important part of our educational system without even having given the view to this collection. It is, yes, but for everyone; a rigorous debate from the academic point of view, based on international academic evidence and not on internal consumption standards; a debate that has as its main focus the best pedagogical and not the ideological prejudices. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.164.0	Next, the words of Mrs Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.165.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to welcome all the promoters and promoters of the ILP education, and welcome the 95,000 signatures that your text has contained. Since the PSC, we will not collect the papers to the totality that have been presented to prevent the processing of this law, and, in fact, we do not understand how certain political groups give the agenda to the debate and to the drawings of thousands of people who have supported this initiative, which certainly also served to provoke a great debate on the model of education to our society for which we wish to congratulate them. And I say that on behalf of a group that, as the committee promoting this ILP knows perfectly well, it values the LEC positively, and we feel that we are parents and mothers, and it does not collect the text they propose to the cent_per_cent, and that, therefore, if the initiative taken forward, we would participate in the debate by presenting papers at many points that we do not share. And not only that, we do not agree to start a process but also constitute a Catalan key that leads to independence, which we do not share, as a political objective. But what we will never do is veto a debate on a core issue of our society that we think we need to talk about and a lot, in respect of the many people who have participated in it. Especially because a few years of convergence government, with the PP, with Esquerra, with the Spanish government with the absolute majority of the PP, with the LOMCE, with the retailing of nuclear public services in our country, have again placed the need and the demand for debate on public education, among other things, and to defend it as well as ever. We would say that this attack on the public school has perverted and perverted all the LEC's experience, since with the same law a government of leftovers that there was not much in this country built a public school for us per week, plans were made for the 1x1 program, inclusive school, contracted as many as ever, was old for equity and supposedly most historically invested in public education. And some of us look to continue to defend it day by day from institutions where we have representation, like this Parliament, where we have also presented and won resolutions and motions that talk about lowering rates, not closing lines, regaining the co-responsibility of the Government of the Generality in the financing of municipal bressol schools, of groceries, of removing public foundations to the schools that secrete by sex or of investing the 6_per_cent of GDP in education, as I say, certainly, also the LEC. But we also respect and appreciate, in fact, the impulse that provides diverse sectors and personalities that defend public education, from the street, from civil society entities, from AMPAs, unions, FAPAC, pedagogical renewal movements, the Association of Masters Rosa Sensat, the Groga Assembly, student associations and collectors, etc. Therefore, we are in favour of tackling this debate, because of political responsibility; we believe that education must be part of a permanent and continuous debate of the Catalan society in order to continue to fight for its better or to denounce those elements that can negatively affect its objectives, and we think that there are no others to provide young people, children, with a training that allows them to be free, autonomous, competent, in a society that is more complex and in which no one, without exception, has to be left out of the individual or collective progress. And we have also convinced that only with agreement and with a broad and stable consensus between all the members of the educational community and others involved, with a deep debate and will be above all that intervenes in education, will we achieve that its social function is at the level that citizenship deserves. And that is why, and despite the fact that we believe that the ILP has some vagueness or many general principles, we are willing to discuss each and every one of them with the ambition of defending the socialist principles that we believe inspire our model, and we are talking about equal opportunities, access to education in conditions of equity, educational excellence, which are for us irrefutable. So, well, given this first introduction why we would vote against the totality items and why we want it to be debated, it did want to make four vials of what we think of the ILP content. First of all, we think that the current state of public education cannot be attributed to the deployment of the LEC, basically because there has also been a sampling of this law. In only three years was a decree approved, related to seedlings and directions, and what has been done has been applied in the public service, because, as I recalled this morning, the LEC is said to be unable to replace the dozen when these are ill or that they are tankin lines to public centers and to be forced to arrange? The discretion of these measures has an ideological basis that has nothing to do with the normal mark. Secondly, the text says that it has gone away from families, teachers, students of any decision-making capacity in public centres, but this has nothing to do with the LEC, that it is not the one that takes away democratic management, but with LOMCE. And that's why we've given support to all the initiatives of civil society, the educational community, against LOMCE and we're proposing to stop its deployment, work for a new educational pact with the community at the Spanish level that allows for the repeal of LOMCE once and for all. Thirdly, is it said that the LEC has introduced the precariousness of the teaching profession, and we ask ourselves again: the breakdown of salaries, teaching days, the restriction of substitutions, the increase of teaching hours, does this have to do with the LEC? This has to do with a government that, with the excuse of the crisis, has detailed everything that had been introduced by better people into public school, which is bad for quality and also detrimental to the health of our public education system. In five places, the proposal talks about ending educational concerts, starting with those elite centers that secrete the student by sex, until they get to their disappearance. On concerts in general, the PSC considers that this system gave out the need for schooling in the 8th and 9th years, mainly, and that currently, effectively, the need has varied and would be hot to review the objectives of these concerts on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. But we also clearly warn that today this is not economically viable from a public policy, and to say the opposite would be to deceive society and not to respect the democratic principle, such as freedom of establishment of centres. Now, said this, if the LEC speaks of the Education Service of Catalonia, we have always been in favour of recovering the principle of public education service and guaranteeing access to the different centres with equal conditions; as well as the commitment of the concerted centres to attend to the social needs in an equitable way, in order to attend to diversity, socio-economic, special educational needs or of any other kind. For what it does to the schools that secrete by sex, they do have public foundations and we have put forward a proposal to reform the law – reform, also, of the LEC –, with the objective to end with the public support of this model and to promote the principle of co-education by means exclusively of mixed schooling. And, therefore, we have completed with a rectification that we have announced for a long time, and also proposed, that in its moment PP and Convergence rejected, and that does not do so much Convergence and Esquerra again fell. For what it does to the evaluation system or the evaluation of the education system, here we also believe in qualitative evaluation tests, you do not use to run or select centers, which stigmatize, and therefore we believe in evaluation as an element that can create educational value, not to segregate or to select. We also believe in the educational, organizational and economic autonomy of the centres, and this makes it possible for the LEC, obviously – not the LOMCE – if the current government may have distorted certain principles. But, it's more than that, we are convinced that taking over directions with more decision-making skills should not be at the expense of the participation of the educational community in school councils or against the guiding principles that characterise an educational centre. Set it up. The law's proposal speaks of making the right to education effective, real and universal, from bressol to university, for all citizens, regardless of their social origin. And here, we think that there is an order, but what is lacking is the conditions, improving the conditions of access, and establishing the mechanisms of public help needed to achieve equal opportunities. For example, Catalonia is the country that has the most public educational offer in education from zero to three, although it is not compulsory, while access to university, as well as its growth in the last twenty years, has been limited with the last crisis due to the rise in taxes that has been simultaneous, also, to the reduction of scholarships and aid. And here we understand that the great challenge is post-compulsory education, concretely FP, and, in this sense, this morning we tried to explain our position in the question to the Councilwoman. And that's why it's important that we aim to allocate 6_percent of GDP to public education, as the LEC specifically points out. I'm done. About establishing the Catalan language as a vehicle to the entire education system, we can't agree more. In fact, the PSC was the driving force behind the Language Normalization Law, and it was Marta Mata, of whom we feel heresy, the main driving force and protagonist. And, as we have always done, we will continue to fight any measure that goes to the detriment of the català as the language vehicles. I, finally, on the cessation of municipal schools in Bressol to the Generalitat. Here we do want to insist that these would not exist if you had not been by the impulse and conviction of many gatherings, that they would not be sustainable without compromise in their financing that today exclusively hold municipal administrations, and that is why we want to claim especially the important paper that they have played and still play many gatherings in public education. Now, from the PSC we understand that co-responsibility between the two administrations has been instrumental and we believe that precisely what it is to recover this co-responsibility after the abandonment of past and present government. It would not seem to us responsible to leave the zero to three management to a government that has not just believed it. But, in the end, we debate everything that is necessary and that serves us to improve our model, and we make it clear that no full independence path can justify the policies and details that in the last few days the public education of this country has suffered. On the contrary, independence and any other process can never be a currency of change of irrefutable principles such as equity. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.167.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, a cordial greeting to the promoter group and to all the people who accompany us, especially that of the samarete grogues, which is the color that has remained fixed as the color of the struggle for a public teaching long ago. Look, a popular legislative initiative that is endorsed by 95,000 people must be escorted by Parliament; point. Therefore, our group will vote because this ILP that we are debating today can follow its processing and, consequently, we will not support the papers to the totality. That doesn't mean we agree, at all. And, therefore, let me begin by explaining some clarobscurs in your initial management and in your subsequent development, according to our understanding. In the dark part of the clairvoyance: we have probably lost a chance to present a legal text that counts on all the support and consensus of many sectors – and not just a few – that have recognizedly defended a public school, secular and of quality, from the beginnings of the democratic transition. The same proposal calls for broad consensus in its preamble. Some are missing in the momentum of this initiative and should be a motivating thought for the promoter group. Clarobscurs, the clear part: this initiative has the virtue of manifesting and bringing out the shortcomings of the LEC to face the educational problems of the country. And let it be placed back on the agenda of the legislative debate, these failings. Because despite the virtues of the current Catalonian Education Law, which has some, one of the most lacking elements in its debate and approval is precisely what I have just claimed for this initiative, the lack of consensus of a broad representation of the educational community. Let's remember: there was a powerful negative response from professionals, associations, organizations, unions, and so on, from some parties that we supported the government that promoted it by opposing it apart from its articulation. And it was not because of a minor issue, but because of the doors that left open – but because of the open doors – to the possibility that the public service model that initially intended the law was transformed into a model that could end up favoring class interests, the segregating interests of the powerful social lobby of Christianity, which almost controls half of the educational centers of Catalonia, without a solution of continuity from the dictatorship. And we're right – and we're right – because that's what's happened and what's going on when the whole life of Catalonia's right-wing party, Catalonia's right-wing party, has come back to power, has spread the law honoring the feeling of many years ago of its spiritual leader, now fallen in disgrace for his sins, Mr. Jordi Pujol, when he said that for the Catalan school model we would be admiring ourselves in the country's concerted school, because if that wasn't the case, all education would be surprised. This, and the saving details that have been made in education taking advantage of the crisis; details that, if you look at it, have focused, above all, on those more progressive elements of educational support that had gone into the public centers in the last governments of the left; details that have filled the working conditions of the teachers and the teachers; details that have provoked and provoked the closure of the classrooms with a clearly classistic biax, and that was seen this morning in the proposal of the law that we presented, why to avoid this, who was the one who voted against? Just like today: Together for the Yes and the Popular Party. So, the thing goes on. This – she said – has left the LEC as a law that has been unable to solve many of the structural problems we have in the country's education. Nor alone, with sufficient capacity to deal with the permanent attacks of the State on exclusive and full competitions, which we have on the Lord's vineyard, which we have in the field of education. And one of the structural problems that we still have not solved for the LEC is how we ensure that the State is, in a broad sense; Catalonia, in a more concrete sense; the one that assures its citizens an essential service for the social construction of the country, such as an equal education, free, critical, secular and quality education, when we are leaving the half of the child population in the hands of private interests that, in this case, are not only business, but are ideological and social control, with the excuse of the absence of the right of the parents to choose center. This ILP makes it clear, therefore, that Catalonia's Education Law needs change. And our group wants to take advantage of the opportunity that we will have, if it is dealt with, to debate in depth, again, about the model of education and to be able to modify, by law, the elements negatius that affect the education of the country. This is a first motif for which we think it should be processed; but there is more. Look, I've already said, for our group, 95,000 people asking that a law be passed is a reason enough to do so. We believe that Parliament should deal with all those initiatives that come from the citizenry and complicate the demands of an ILP. Leaving an ILP behind in its first installment is undermining the organized participation of the citizenry. [[Some applause.]] And thirdly, because we agree with the final objective of the law, which is that our country has responsibility for the education of citizens and citizens as a social element within the public institutions in its control and management, that they are the only ones who can and must guarantee equal opportunities, critical feeling and ideological impartiality. That is to say, we agree with the initiative that we want a public education at all levels of education. And so, if it's done, we're going to do some tests, in a positive way, on the text that's presented in some aspects that we think are better. For example, in the first place, we find that the text in itself leans a little to a legal text. A legal text regulates, concretely, specifies not only what, but how, so that there is no doubt of what the conduct of the Administration and the Administration should be with regard to the subject they intend to regulate. If it's not that way, it's because it's a text prepared for the citizenry that what it does is express desires and wills, but it doesn't set up mechanisms to get them, nor does it create a law rank. We'll have to do it. And precisely for this, a law of these characteristics would require a calculation of costs distributed over time if it is not only in this expression of desires. And this means that it would be essential for the future project to incorporate a rigorous economic memory precisely because it is not left in an inoperative legislation to practice. And a third question, generic, is the lack of completeness. If what we are trying to do is to give a regulatory framework to the country's public education and replace what we have now, we can't just keep certain specific facts on the side of essential facts or voids without regulation, because what they would allow is precisely what it is to avoid, that they are arbitrary actions by third parties, precisely because of this lack of regulation. Finally, we do not believe that structural elements should be incorporated on the side of labour regulations which, for their natural nature, should form part of collective bargaining and, therefore, of the specific rules of public service. As a minor issue, some articles that go into legal contradiction between themselves, or warmth develop a concept, which I am sure we share, such as the laity of public teaching in all its levels, which, despite having manifested itself in a generic way, does not have a single line in the joint. And finally, there's a couple of concepts in the text that we're supposed to agree on. One is the lack of timing in the concept of what is public, and another is a certain rigidity to avoid the transfer to the world of work of knowledge and the values to be transmitted by public education. I explain: for us the public concept cannot be vertical. The Generalitat is the Government of the country, but it is only the Government of the country. Local administrations are also public administrations and should, in our view, have an essential role to play in guaranteeing the rights of citizens to education, as well as public institutions which are not strictly Administration. And it is precisely this concept that would prevent a certain manicism between what is public and what is private when we find ourselves in the transfer that the world formats to the world of work. At the end and the end, education to the length of life – which we defend and which is not sufficiently recognized in the text –, what allows, more than personal realization, is to enter into a work environment that in the capitalist world we live in, and that I am sure we will overcome some day, is essentially private. In summary, therefore, and finally, we agree with the general objective of the initiative, we value the capacity of citizen participation in the presentation of legislative initiatives, we believe that the Catalonian Education Law has shortcomings that must be resolved in order to face the educational problems of the country and, therefore, we will vote because this initiative is being carried out. We defend and defend a public teaching of quality, guarantee an equal opportunity, overcome social inequalities, promote a critical thinking that allows for autonomy and personal realization, profoundly secular and elongated from ideological indoctrination. We come from far away, like many of you, in this defense, and we will continue to work together with all of you because we want to go much further still. A strong embrace and a cordial greeting. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.168.0	Next, has the word "Mrs. Pilar Castillejo", of the Parliamentary Group Candidate for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.169.0	Good morning again. Members, Members, and all those who have come to defend the ILP for education, who, as you say here very well, "because another world is possible another education is necessary, which is the motto that accompanies us and that..., accompanies us in this debate. We have a popular legislative initiative ahead of us in Parliament to propose a political debate on which model of education we want in our country, but which, more importantly, and most importantly, after promoting debate at the social level. A debate on a new law with completely different bases from those of the current LEC. We already have enough problems in the world of education to tell us that the LEC, which was already born with a large majority of the educational community against, because it was born with five waves to the principle, does not answer problems that at this time we have to the educational community. With the deployment of the LEC..., with this deployment, policies have been allowed to detail that have damaged the health of our education system, that pose in danger its viability; with its deployment, public funds have been allocated to private educational negotiations; the increase in educational discrimination and social and sexual segregation of the students has been allowed; the precariousness of the teachers has been promoted; the educational community has been removed from decision making, and, finally, a situation of inequality has been made between the public educational centres and the private concerted centres. It was intended, in short..., with this deployment of the LEC it was intended to implement a clearly competitive, clear-cut and segregating educational model. The LEC was, therefore, a law in the service of a very determined model of society, the one that in the treatises of the European Union attached to us a very determined role of service providers, and therefore the calibre of a segregated society and an acritic society; some that control the economic power and some that work, obey and call. And what better way to carry the public education of a country to get it. Because we don't want a segregated society, our education doesn't have to be. We call centres where young people and young people come together from all social classes and from all cultural backgrounds. And, therefore, the first one proposed by the ILP is the need to bet on a single public sector, public ownership and management, as do the vast majority of European countries. That's why you have a law that allows you to end educational concerts, starting with those elite centers and those that secrete by sex, we've said it and we're going to repeat it, until the concerts disappear. The non-subordination of education to the interests of the market and large foundations deprived of education. Because we don't want an acrylic society either, our education doesn't have to be. If we want to educate for democracy, we need to educate for democracy. We don't want children and children to have a pyramid system like a model, where the directors of the centers make all the decisions. That decisions are shared; that the teacher is not an employee who obeys orders; that we recover the democratic management of educational centres, that we assume the learnings and experiences of collaboration, co-operativeism, democratic work and assemblies; that we establish a real autonomy to the centres, without imposed directions, with projects discussed at the school; that an assessment that allows the centres and students to improve, and that can give stability and security to the plants. And we also want education to be a right for all citizens, regardless of their social or economic or cultural origin, and that's why it's a zero-three-to-university free system. And, therefore, I agree with the importance of education in people's lives. With a GDP, as they said before, the same, as at least, to the rest of the European media. In short, what we are considering is moving towards a new paradigm that educates Catalonia. We don't just talk about resources, we don't just talk about working conditions, we talk about a new way of hearing education. This ILP, which today in Parliament proposes, we have said, and we have repeated it, both at the presentation of the promoter group, as you will see later, is not a law that is already drafted and developed, it is a master line: the master line for a future law, for a new republic, not for an autonomous law. It represents the master lines of this new law of education that we are up in Parliament with the support of more than one hundred and seventy entities, with the support of more than 95,000 signatures. And we believe that this should be a point of departure more than enough to start a parliamentary debate. To talk about education is a priority for us, and it is not so much a priority, it is such a top priority that we disconnect this debate from any political moment, there are already Spanish elections for which we are convinced to campaign, the political moment of a process is that it serves us as an excuse not to enter the debate. If we are talking about processes that constitute and do exist in terms of participation, what is more appropriate to a process that constitutes popular than an ILP presented to Parliament after having been debated in a multitude of acts within the country, gathered in many gatherings through motions, worked with a project that has illusionized and cohesionated the conjunction of the Catalan educational community and which has been raised above by 95,000 voices that are required to be escorted? This ILP that comes up with all this recollection, this is also a country pact, Mrs Simó – this is also a country pact. [[Some applause.]] We also heard about the new national pact for education in Phoenix. For us, a new excuse, because what we present here are the bases that allow us to open the debate with all the interlocutors; with all the agents that we consider necessary to do so; with all the consensus we can seek – we can seek them, these consensuses –; with everyone we want to talk to. If we think it's a new law of education, and in that it seems that we all agree, what better starting point than a popular legislative initiative? A tool for citizen participation and a way to open parliamentary life beyond the walls of the institution. We're doing democracy a very weak favor. [[some applause]] If Parliaments veto citizens' proposals. Because, more than apologizing, with the totality of Juntes for the Yes and the PP that we have seen now and that we have seen this morning, what is evident is that both defend the same educational model: an educational model that speaks of equal opportunities – we have not heard of equal opportunities – but what they mean when they say that is: maintaining privileges. "Equality is that all children can choose, regardless of their socioeconomic origin, which centre they want to go to. Equal opportunities, we can't talk about it when there are families who can't go to school, when there are children who can't sort a center because the quotas they have to pay are very dear. [[applause]] When you can't go to college because you can't afford it. We can't talk about equal opportunities with these conditions. It's equal to who can only pay it, it's not equal. And it doesn't give me time, I see, to talk to Ciutadans, to answer his new mantra of trilingualism. That's a mantra, the trilingualism they get in every education debate we have here. Beyond the veto to the dialog that comes out of this House today, and as a mother said this morning to the press wheel: "A pinya has been formed that will not be broken. Let's close our compromises... [[Greetings.]] Let us confirm our commitment until the end with the debate on this ILP, perhaps today ends your parliamentary debate, but not your social debate. We have to work for a new law, for a new republic. We will continue with his defense, because he represents the educational model necessary for the new world that we know is possible. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.170.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote of the totality papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. The vote begins. There were 71 votes in favour, 35 against and 25 abstentions. As the totality reviews have been approved, this initiative remains rejected. [[Asking the government about a republic with zero corruption]] [[300-00050/11]] And then we move on to the next point in the order of the day, which are interpellations. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please... we talked about education. [[Pause.]] Thank you. The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on a republic with zero corruption, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. [[Widow's remorse.]] There's a word from Mr. Benet Salellas. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, ask the deputies to be silent and in a hurry so that we can continue the session. [[Pause.]] You're gonna have to keep quiet, please. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.171.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, ILP education companies that you are abandoning the hemicicle... "Who is the custodian of the guardians? , said Juvenal at a maximum that has been fixed for posterity in political theory: "Who watches the vigilante? In the Spanish State, corruption is the daughter of the institutional design agreed between the Francoist elites and the democratic forces of 78, in a logical clientele. This has resulted in a model of development based on speculation and commercialization of benefits as basic as the soil, as water, as energy–the basic services–, pillars of the social state that, through its privatization or the transfer of management to private hands, have served political elites and extractive finance to enrich themselves. A new example, and we have said, I already believe, hundreds of times, of how the resources that we generate from below end up in the hands of those who hold the power of always. The logical clientel, extractive and lucrative has been covered in our house by a spate silence, a smoke curtain, which has not allowed and allows reproduction for years, as one of the points of the institutional regime born in 78. An authentic omerty, a omerty that is, at the same time, and in the same doses, and in our understanding, a structure of silence and a structure of impunity has grown around the public question. And as we have said so many times, this impunity is also generated, among many other reasons, by the non-investigation or deficit investigation, which leads to the archive, or by the unindecent, but provoked delay, which forces the criminal prescription. In these two lifetimes, do we think that there is a responsibility for the tax and control bodies that we are bringing here for analysis: the Union of Accounts, the Anti-Fraud Office, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the Delegation of the Government and the Generality of Catalonia are or are they not effective tax mechanisms and fight against corruption? Are the mechanisms ‘Gatapardians to make everything go the same? Miri, I'll start with the Account Union. It says the Statute of Autonomy that the Union of Accounts is the taxing body of the accounts, of the economic management and of the efficiency control of the Generality, of the joint ventures and of the public sector. With a presumption of EUR 11_million, of which EUR 1_million is directly paying the sum of the syndicate gods; another million is paying the Blue Building logger, which seems to us to be two rather interesting indicators of where the resources of the tax agencies go, right? We don't say they don't issue reports, it's a mechanism that exists, that I think voluntarily, so, they did their job, correct, and that leaves a sense of corruption and mismanagement at our house. Now, we think the union isn't used to fight corruption or mismanagement for a double motive. First of all, because it is extremely slow, but mainly because its reports do not generate consequences and, therefore, the Union of Accounts is a new battle of impunity for customerism and the capitalism of friends so installed at our home. He doesn't punish, he doesn't disqualify, he doesn't fine, he doesn't report. It is limited to seeing the disaster, but it does not punish it. If the acts against the common good do not have consequences, if it has impunity, we will never be able to guarantee, put aside these situations. From the triad power that we've always come demanding, right? , in situations of corruption, recognition, repair and guarantees of non-repetition, I asked last week to the syndic Pons, precisely, to the Commission of the Union of Accounts, and I said, in recognition that, effectively, of so much work and resources that we spend – these 11_millions – to the Union of Accounts, only a certain recognition of situations of corruption is brewed, but there has been neither repair nor guarantees of non-repetition. I would like to put on the table, for example, the case of the Hospital Moisès Broggi, which we examined precisely last week's committee. It is a case that Parliament knows perfectly well, it is a case of 2008, Marina Geli, tripartite, "health socio-vergency, a grant to a single bidder, a single bidder formed for the usual– Agbar, "the Box, Teyco, EMTE – isn't it? , and therefore the same actors, as always, distributed in that case an initial contract that was 42_million euros, but today we know that it links CatSalut for many years in advance, for a value not less than 200_million euros, and the difference of 42 to 200 has to see, precisely, at the cost of the operation. It must not be by chance, either, that the same company will finance it as part of the company that is awarded, in this case, the work and, therefore, a situation that we think is absolutely scandalous. Well, about the Moisès Broggi Hospital, for example, any complaints? Any responsibility? Any debugging? Any repairs? Did something happen? Is this the system that we have of taxation of our own publics? Even when it's obvious that the public outcast has been plundered, that the old ones have been enriched and that there are clear political responsibilities, what does the Union of Accounts do? Therefore, the Union of Auditors sends its report to the Court of Auditors to see whether the year 2018, or year 2020, when it has already prescribed, obviously, these facts, acclaims some type of responsibility. Therefore, it is certainly shameful which is the system of taxation that we have today at our home. We are talking about the Antifrau Office, also, for example; with a presupposition of no more than 5_million euros; a presupposition that certainly has a generous margin for travel and an internationalization of its top branches, which certainly cover..., the Director of the Antifrau Office collects 135,000_euros per year, and some of the other branches, therefore, also cover more than 100,000_euros per year. Well, all these other branches, all these resources for the Anti-Fraud Office, have you proven to the Anti-Fraud Office's memory what happened? All these 5_million euros that cost us all Catalans and Catalans the Anti-Fraud Office have gone as one! - One! –, a complaint to the prosecutor's office! Five million euros for a tax complaint! It is an absolute shame that there is an anti-fraud office, with people travelling all over the world – Mrs. Maite Masia, a trip to Boston to meet with a law firm, six days, six thousand euros in cost to the Anti-Fraud Office – so this internationalization, after that, does not correspond to the absolute shame that all this work, in one year, brings to a complaint to the prosecution. Let's talk about the anti-corruption prosecution, to go on, let's say, with the prosecution agencies. Miri, in Catalonia – and they are data that are public – we have, for the province of Barcelona, concretely, that it has a population of 6_million inhabitants, we have three anti-corruption prosecutors – three anti-corruption prosecutors. For the rest of Catalan provinces, directly, there is not even so much anti-corruption prosecution. The prosecutor's memo shows how many prosecutors are working for anti-corruption purposes: two; two for anti-corruption purposes. Therefore, I ask myself how, for example, to my constituency, Girona's constituency, that there are no cases of corruption; there are no cases of corruption because there is no corruption or that no one directly investigates corruption in Girona's constituency? Because, in addition, it gives the chance that the Manga-Pokémon case, which is the only case that has occurred, precisely, involving the County Council of the Jungle and other bodies of Convergence, has come under investigation for a lawsuit by Lugo and, therefore, has not been the result of the activities of the Prosecutor's Office. So, don't look into why don't we set up middlemen? Is there any kind of political will on the part of anyone, to devote some euro to corruption, to the fight against corruption? And two more organs, to also put on the table the map, let's say, total taxation: Delegation of the Spanish Government and Generality of Catalonia. The Delegation of the Spanish Government has the function, precisely, of reviewing all the acts issued for the meetings and, therefore, of reviewing the administrative contract. The Delegation of the Spanish Government knows that it is a specialist and first spasm to challenge municipal agreements on the AMI, on the flags, on the support to the 9-N and all types of motions, but, in change, we have never seen that the Delegation of the Spanish Government, although it has this capacity, fiscalizes, through the Law of the State, some of the contracts or suspicious awards that are fan of the assemblies. And we're going to the Generalitat de Catalunya, to finish the map. The Generalitat de Catalunya has the possibility to compare as a particular accusation in cases of corruption affecting the autonomic error and as a popular accusation in the rest of the cases. We know, we know, that the Generalitat de Catalunya appears when it comes to vaguistes, when it comes to demonstrators, when it comes to a scrape in the knee of a squadron movement. But when it comes to millions of euros – millions of euros – defrauded in the public era, what does the Government of Catalonia do? For example, what did the Government of Catalonia do in the case of Noos, which this Parliament had ordered you to appear as a private accusation, as harmed by the work of the German of the king and his husband, Mr Urdangarín? What did the Government of Catalonia do? So he didn't compare it to what this Parliament had ordered him to do, nor, let's face it, has he claimed, at any time, nor has he exercised the actions that he might have carried out. Therefore, beyond the question of the lack of resources, beyond the skills we have distributed with the State, what is obvious is that resources are there, we do not know exactly what they are used for, but there is a clear lack of political will and a lack of real investigation into corruption. For us – we have said it many times – corruption goes through re-recognition, repair and guarantees of non-repetition. Today it does not meet all three requirements. So let us ask the Government and the question: what are the measures and proposals that this Government has to deal with this difficult problem and this scourge of corruption and mismanagement of the common good and public good in the construction of the Catalan Republic?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.172.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.173.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Member, allow me, in the first place, to thank you for the opportunity you give us, once more, to talk about a question that, effectively, as you say, is not only central, it is basic, it is fundamental. It forms part of the essence of what must be not only reflection, but the construction of an institutional, social, political _framework different from what we have at these times. And I give her reason in the fact that it is not only the one that is better, but above all in the fact that the one that is to be, is to say, the one that we have to build, the one that we have the mandate to build must be manifestly better. Otherwise we would be committing not a fraud but directly a monumental mistake, and as this is not the intention, at least of this councillor neither the government nor the majority that we have today in the Parliament of Catalonia, I repeat, I thank you for the opportunity that you allow us, giving us today to be able to address the issue. This is precisely the question that we understand from the point of view of how to build a state, a new state, a different state must allow us to rethink and define what are some anomalies, and we must assume all the clarity with which you have asked some questions, some questions, and with which, I believe, we must face, I repeat, the answers. And these precisely, for me, and you ended up making a direct appeal to who is the role that a republic can play in this debate, here is where I precisely put the key to the answer. Republicanism, by definition, and in this I believe we agree, implies taking over the citizenry, implies strengthening the citizenry; it implies that public ethics and exemplary behaviour are the fundamental essence of social and institutional functioning. It means, therefore, taking over the citizenry by equipping it with those instruments that will then allow it not only to participate in it, but above all, and most importantly, to control what is public action to reduce the risk of fraud. We know that a different model, a new model, a state, a republic is not a panacea, it is not a paradise in itself, but we do want and we can and we do have to ensure that the new republic has the tools that make this possible. We could talk, if I may, about what the national system of integrity is sometimes called, and it is not a euphemism, it is a fundamental essence of what this new brand, this new reality, must mean. The control of corruption, in short, is considered a central part of this integral approach since, and this is a fact, those countries that show better governance, those countries that are much more democratic, those countries that are more transparent, more participatory, more egalitarian, are those countries that at the same time show much lower degrees and indices of corruption, and those countries that show much higher indices of trust in institutions. This is the objective; this is the essence of the debate which, I repeat, you call us and urge us, and it is precisely because this is the central debate, it is one of the reasons for which many people are doing what we are doing, one of the reasons for which I myself, as a citizen, a Member and a Councillor, have involved myself in this ever-individual, ever-collective, collective task, for which we are moving towards this new country. A new country that, in short, has to be very different – very different – also in these questions of the State that wants to prevent us from fulfilling this new status. Good governance is understood as a way of exercising directed power, and this is fundamental, with a full management of what public powers are. It means citizen participation, you have made it very clear, you also mean holding accounts both from the vertical point of view and from the horizontal dimension. And this can only be done with guarantees if we build a system of clear counterweights, and that is why I go to the fonamental essence, also, of his inquiry; the existence of counterweights is precisely that of the elements, or one of the elements, that must allow republicanism as such to be a system, I repeat, better than what we have today. Indeed, there are some elements that claim to counterbalance, there are many deficiencies in this current system. The intention, the objective, the need, I would say, and if I may say how you also pointed out, the urgency in some cases, forces us to strengthen, to improve, to correct some of these dynamics. The institutional construction of a republic must be guaranteed in a fundamental way, and I can sum up, I don't know if we will agree, I trust, at least four things. First, integrity in all spheres of public power, without exception. That means the legislature, the judiciary, the executive, independent agencies, the police, the prosecution, etc. It's not a free terminology, it's not a lesser term, it's a phonenal term. Secondly, the existence of independent control nets. That, I understand, is also part of the demand and I make it my own. In third place, a clear regulation of the tasks. This is an environment, from the standard point of view, that today allows us to have a good conjunction, let's say, of norms, not all of them always clear, not all of them always convincing. And finally, as I said before, a measured counterweight system. In this chamber, I allow myself to speak in favour, very in favour, and I believe that this is one of the things that we have to be collectively proud of, some measures have been taken that seem to me to be going in this direction and that I do not only subscribe, but I would like to emphasize. The first, to the previous mandate: the Commission of Inquiry into the Frau and the Tax Evasion and the Practices of Political Corruption. This led us to a retreat of sixty-six extremities of thirty sessions and seventy-six appearances, in an absolutely decisive fact, a point of inflection; I think that this is not just – I repeat – we must put it in place, but it must be a point of departure from what is to come. At these times we have another committee, of which the deputy is, precisely, the chairman: the Commission for the Study of Measures to Fight Corruption for Democratic Regeneration. It's a step further, it's not the definition, it's the step more that we need to allow, together with the third of the tools that at these times we have available for this objective, which is the Study Commission of the Process Constituent, to lay the foundations, to establish the pillars, to build the foundations of what this model is to be different from, and I repeat, better, than we have at these moments. But you have made a particular point to the government and I am obviously obliged to make reference to it. From the government, and particularly from the department that I am headquartered in, which is the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency – and Transparency – we have conjugated all these jobs or all those needs, if I may say, in a new space, for the first time, on the level of secretary; a secretary of transparency and open government, the secretary of which accompanies us today, and who seems to me to be an example of what can be done, is being done. It is not all that should be done, nor, of course, all that we want to do, to make sense of doubt; but the starting point as at least to redefine what is being done and to detect what, in the end, as you very well pointed out in some lines, must be corrected; it is absolutely fundamental. And this is where we have grouped important aspects such as transparency, open data, participation, accountability, supervision, and evaluation and better public procurement. I repeat, it is not all that should be done, sense of doubt, but precisely because we are aware that work is ingenious, it is absolutely essential that we start working in this direction. And it is, from the point of view of the mark in which we move, that the field in which we move and work is to veto the deployment of a law, the deployment of all the potential predicted at the moment in this law, which is the law of transparency, access to public information and good governance, one of the most ambitious ones in this country, approved for the vast majority in this chamber, which is a tool for the present – for the present – but in no case does the model of the future have to be reduced to that. Therefore, I repeat: I am grateful for the opportunity to put emphasis on the need to provide us with a different _framework in order to be able to build different structures, but I am also aware that, precisely, if some reason, among many others, leads us to many people to claim what we are claiming, that it is to provide us with what we do not have today, that they are the tools of a kind state..., if in any case this is obvious, surely, among many others, this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.174.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, has the word Mr Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.175.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for all and for the considerations. What's going on is, I'm buying everything you said, but I didn't hear until I solved the questions we asked about the table. That is to say, transparency is a mechanism that is very useful to us, that I welcome that we have one of the laws of transparency, so, more complete of our environment – it will not be seen as the unfolding year – but in any case this transparency that brings us to see the shames, right? And I don't think there's enough to see them, but we have an obligation, I repeat – I may be a little burden, but – to recognize them, to repair their effects and to ensure that they won't repeat themselves again. And in these three elements transparency or transparency guarantee at these times is helping us. I mean, when I told you, the Anti-Fraud Office ends its activity for a year with a complaint to the prosecution, so, to me, the transparency of reading this in a report from the Anti-Fraud Office doesn't console me, huh? I don't know how to say it. I haven't heard exactly how it helps to fight corruption. It's the other way around: reassure the corrupt, who can be reassured because with the mechanisms we have we can continue stealing and loosing that nobody here will demand no responsibility. Therefore, I believe that the message is quite contrary to what 'is planted from the government. We obviously believe that the Catalan Republic must be an opportunity to improve all this, but we cannot just believe in expectations. We must begin to see that we begin to deploy who these republican mechanisms will be. And, therefore, I would suggest to the Councillor that we create a national anti-corruption mechanism – I don't know, maybe we could tell him about ‘prevention and anti-corruption, I don't know, we could say this – that all these instruments are grouped together, that the co-ordinates, because I have to say that, for example, with the ATLL issue we found that the prosecution has an open investigation of ATLL, that the heavy trade union has an open investigation of ATLL, that the Anti-Fraud Office has an open investigation of ATLL. It's that in the end, many times, it's the same abuse of process generation and documentation that exactly taps into the investigation. So, first we start to generate coordination spaces, we start to generate resource optimization spaces, and, above all, I think this government needs to make a bet to create an anti-corruption prosecution, I don't know if to say to it a "republic anti-corruption prosecution, I don't know what format we have to say, but we need to make it clear that this will be a priority in the Catalan Republic. I think that if in Catalonia, for example, we have 375-380 prosecutors, that we only have three prosecutors, and therefore a 1_percent of the prosecutor's office dedicated to the issue of the fight against corruption at a time when there is social concern that there is, we have a problem. Therefore, I would propose to the Government that dedicated resources, precisely, to generating places – why not? –, support seats for the anti-corruption prosecutor's office. Why don't we precisely create forty seats in the anti-corruption prosecutor's office? We can cut down a little bit on the subs of the high directives, as we propose in the negotiation of assumptions, right? , we can apply the Andalusian clause to the question of the high directives, these under which there are in the Anti-Fraud Office and the Union of Accounts, and begin to target them precisely for the persecution of those who steal and plunder the public erarium. They're talking about moves, for example. How many effects of the dissipation of thousands of times do we have in Catalonia, how many effects do we have for the units of persecution of corruption? Twenty? Thirty? If they get a cent, I'll say it, I'll buy it. And it's not like that. Or, at these times, the resources allocated by the Government are clearly insufficient, and here there is a political will – I am sorry – until today there has been a political will not to allocate resources because precisely what is not intended is that it is placed above the table as the 78_system has been a lucrative system for those who were already powerful before 78; it has served to keep in power the political elites hidden in the regime; it has served because the public services, in some way, generate huge benefits as always – I have said before: « the Box, EMTE, Teyco, family Sumoroca..., are always the same ones that appear all the time. And so what I want is actions, it's done that this government, actually, is not just because it's about building a republic, but because it understands that it's starting to set up media because this republic is also a republic of zero corruption, and a republic that has the fight against corruption as one of its priorities, so we want it to prove that with the police, with the prosecution, with the tax on account, with the fight, somehow, against fraud, there are actually media and media that are effective. When we can do this, we will convince ourselves of this compromise and, in addition, we will water much more people into the construction process of the Catalan Republic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.176.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then the word has the counselor, Mr. Raül Romeva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.177.0	Again, thank you very much. Effectively, you ask me for specific actions, I want to remind you, also very clear, but also modest and humble, that the government has been a long time – at least as long as I know it – that it has already promoted a series of specific actions in this sense. The first, from the point of view of public power, is working and is about to be, in some way, put into circulation already for work and discussion, the code of conduct of the high offices and direction of the Administration of the Generality. This is a text that does, in a way, a long time ago that is in the process of production and that has to be used, among other things, to put some corrections to some of the elements that you pointed out in due course. The second question that you pointed out and that I think is important, is to say, you were talking about the importance of transparency and, certainly, transparency for itself doesn't mean anything – it doesn't mean anything. That is to say, in fact, Byung-Chul Han already proposed it, that is to say, even an excess of transparency can end up being counterproductive if one does not have the arguments, does not have the tools to manage all this information. That is why, precisely, what we are concerned about is not only transparency, but the way in which this information is provided so that it can be useful and usable on the part of the citizenry. And this can be done with political will, and it can and must be done with a series of questions of technical character, character, even at the present time, of informational character that have been made. That is to say, a series of structural elements that need to be made available so that this, that is necessary, is more useful. And that, starting from what is ultimately a principle – I'm sure you already know him better than I do – of Louis Brandeis, magistrate of the Supreme Court, when he said that "the light of the sun is the best disinfectant. I mean, it's true that it doesn't cure, but, man! , helps prevent, helps prevent some anomalies. From the point of view of some concrete elements that you pointed out, I think it is also important to state that internally, investigations of some of the government's departments have been precisely followed, which have allowed some anomalies to arise – even some against the same government's dynamic – so from this point of view I believe that, I repeat, it is not enough, in absolute terms, but it is clear that this does not have to be done in any case – in any case – by; on the contrary. And actually, in this sense, one of the things that worries me the most and that I understand that the most needs to be faced is the question of public procurement. You have done a few examples, precisely, on this subject, and that is why we have two objectives from the specific point of view of public contract: one, which is to guarantee access to all the data of public contract, which today – which today – does not always happen, and in all areas, and two, to guarantee maximum transparency at all stages of the contract, which is not today either. But effectively you also made a very timely and relevant reference to what resources mean. And here, I have no choice but to tell you another time: you're absolutely right about the world. That is to say, if there is not an increase in resources that make it manifest that there is a political will because this is done, obviously – obviously – we will not get out of it. So that the judiciary – so that the judiciary – is sufficiently endowed, in an absolutely capable manner, and that it allows this rapid need to be able to respond independently – independently – of everything that means causes or cases of fraud. This is a fundamental element and, in this sense, I think it is absolutely central not to abandon this path. Here we could go, in addition, into another aspect from the point of view of financing, from the final point of view that is to be reviewed. And, obviously, there is all the debate about the financing of parties, etc., and of interest groups that at these times, as you know, are also working on the mark of a specific code that you allow – and I repeat it, despite being insufficient, necessary – transparency. Therefore, conclusion, and this is a little bit the central idea of the work we do that, I repeat, is insufficient, but that is necessary and that is a starting point. What we intend is to lay the foundations for what this new republic is to be, and above all, so that this republic can count on in the future with a system of integrity that works; on the basis of two elements: an organizational system that I foresee, that I respond and that I sanction, and that is a central element. But, two, also a cultural change. You were talking about impunity and this is actually the great drama and in which we have to put all the emphasis of the world: if it generates the image that doesn't happen when it's determined practices, it's the worst – it's the worst – it serves that it can be done, precisely, to the right state that we want to guarantee, and even more to the net state that we want to build. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.178.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on fiscal policy]] [[300-00051/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about fiscal policy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mr. Enric Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.179.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable councillors, ladies and gentlemen, "Together for the Yes, a government to declare independence in Catalonia divided, this is the motto with which you were presented in these late elections of 27 September last year, and this is the motto for which Convergence and Esquerra are united in a government. I think I don't reveal any secrets, but, from time to time, it's worth remembering. What's going on is that, beyond the slogans, beyond the epic, beyond all that, there's a government of the generality that I can manage, right? And when one is able to do this job, he realizes that things are more complicated than he thought. When you arrive and touch a few on the ground, what you also do, is your obligation, it happens that you have to rule day by day, that we have to find solutions to the real problems that Catalans have and that you have to make political decisions that have consequences, decisions that are not always easy to take, because sometimes even they could collate with those slogans or slogans that a_has used to get to power. To adopt an annual premise, to fight against the harmful public deficit, to reduce the debt that it offends us, which offends the public finances of the Generality, is converted into difficult tasks, which require little theater, little epic, much political efficiency, and also technical capacity. The chance, or the providence, has wanted me to present to you today this inquiry to the Government, concretely to the Vice President and Councillor of Economy, after he had held, a few minutes ago, a meeting with the Minister of Economy and Competitiveness of the Government of Spain, of the People's Party, Mr Luis de Guindos. I'm told the meeting went pretty well. It is what I know, in any case, you will surely then use your turn to explain to us whether I am wrong or not. But the information I have is that it has gone well, that the dialog is sincere, that there is the dialog – which until now was not – and that you are perfectly able to identify who are the bonds that have assumed for the Catalan economy the policies driven by the Government of Spain, and that, also, these policies have benefited and give opportunities for the future to the Catalan economy; an economy that grows over 3_per_cent, an economy that has, and that is the country of Europe that at these times more grows and more occupation creates. As Minister De Guindos himself says – I don't know if he will explain it today – we can take advantage of this new stage of economic growth to create a moderate reduction in the fiscal pressure on our company, and Catalonia can also take advantage, better than anyone else, of the strength of economic recovery to boost the business dynamism in Spain and the European Union. This dynamism that the Catalan economy has will use better than anyone the strength that gives, precisely, the economic recovery of the joint of Spain. Well, we can give her the schematic, to this reality, and lose the opportunities that come from her. What is the purpose of this inquiry that we present to you today from the People's Group? So, with this question, what we want to know exactly is what is the government's understanding of Catalonia's taxation; an element that is clau, precisely, for the elaboration of these assumptions of the Generality that I have been commenting on for a moment, that so far they do not count on a majority in this Parliament, for which we know, but that, a few days before initiating the presuppositional debate, the lack of consensus settles even within the government. That is to say, there is not only a lack of consensus, for which it seems, with the rest of the parliamentary forces, but also that, moreover, this lack of consensus is installed within the same government when we are talking, concretely, about fiscal policy. This morning you had a chance to talk to us – I don't know..., I mean – three, four or five times with different questions that have been asked by different groups, I mean it's a matter of concern, because you yourself have started this debate opening up the melo in the communication media. But, of course, in order to know the truth, we would have to ask two councillors at once: we would have to ask a Convergence councillor and an Esquerra councillor at once. Because, for what it looks like, at least for what we read in the communication media, you don't think exactly the same. And, therefore, in this inquiry one of the things we want to achieve is that you clarify whether this is true or not: whether you think the same or not. The first question I ask you is: Is it possible that the President of the Government and his Vice-President and Councillor of Economy are talking about fiscal pressure in Catalonia, about whether or not to increase certain taxes or lower others, through communication media? Is that logical? Is it possible that this worked this way? Don't you? Don't you guys talk to each other? Does the debate have to be done through the communication media? I think it's good that we know, because until now the proposals we've listened to, better said, that we've read, have been through communication media. When the Vice-President makes a public proposal to increase fiscal pressure in Catalonia to make them high, I respond to a counter-response by the President through communication media, and, automatically, there is a political crisis in the government. Do you mean, Counselor, that the legislature to declare independence in divout_mesos will come to an end, at last, without having been able to approve the presupposition of 2016? I ask: is this debate authentic that we are being offered through the communication media, which other groups were asking about today? Or are they doing theaters to attract the desired vote – to attract the desired vote – of their anti-system members of the CUP, who are currently running Catalonia? Mr. Junqueras, you appear as the Robin Hood of Catalan politics these days, don't you? And that's all very well, I want to take the money from the rich to give it to the poor, but this totally demagogic staging – you will allow it – has become an authentic clumsy line of ideological flotation of your governing partners, with the objective, power, to infuse it at all. But, anyway, the question I'm asking is, is this all really going on or is it just a pre-election campaign? So, are you interested in making a genuinely realistic debate about taxation in Catalonia? Is that a pre-election debate? Not just thinking of the 26-J, that, as there are some groups that don't show up, some parties that don't show up, you may have a special interest in taking votes, if not..., are you already thinking of some later autonomous elections? And, therefore, this battle, this internal struggle to lead the future of sovereignism in Catalonia, is it already totally fleshed out? From..., taking into account your responses this morning, which I have listened to carefully, I would say to you that, of course, if the answer you gave this morning is genuine, and you want to make a realistic debate about the fiscal pressure in Catalonia, that it is what gives us this morning, even though the government will not propose it, but you implied that some parliamentary groups – you must have privileged information – are presenting ideas that would provoke a debate that the government seems not to want to provoke directly..., if you believe that this is true, that we would very much like to know – and today you have the opportunity to say it and because all of Catalonia also knows it – is whether you are in favour of lowering taxes to Catalans or not. What's his opinion? Because what we seem to have heard today is that the government won't say, but there will be a debate here, because there are some issues and then these issues will allow us to make a debate, and then we'll see what happens, depending on the major parliaments that do. But, of course, here the experience shows us that there is only one parliamentary majority that serves, that it's Juntes for the Yes and the CUP, the others don't care when we talk about these issues, right? So they're asking us to try to clarify this, so we know exactly what we're playing, right? And whether you're in favour or not, as I say, of pushing the taxes on Catalans, and clearly explaining it in this chamber, without beginnings and without ambiguity, clearly speaking, that you when you want to do it, what happens is that sometimes, with the flowering of the verb and speech, we don't just know exactly what the situation is. The data is irrefutable and you know them, I think..., not in a debate like this one we don't have time to go into detail; but you know perfectly well that Catalonia is the autonomous community that the more fiscal pressure it suffers at these times in all of Spain, for three reasons basically. First, because the tax types are the highest above the middle of the rest of the autonomous communities, in almost all taxes– in almost all taxes–, both in the lowest and highest types. Second, because the amount of taxes we have is the largest among all the autonomous communities in Catalonia; we have fifteen when the middle is two, three, four, five, and the one that has more is Andalusia, which has eight. And, third, because we're enjoying less tax bonuses. Therefore, if the Catalans are the ones who suffer the most from this fiscal pressure, and the blame here is not from Madrid, because it is the Government of the Generality that puts its hand to the Catalans' buttocks and shields them every month..., and this obviously does it when, more than any other, some members of the Government..., and you know it perfectly, President, takes twice as much as the President of the Government of Spain, and the Councillors cover much more than a minister..., the question I ask you, to end this first part of my intervention, is this, right? You know perfectly well that a new rise in taxes in Catalonia would harm our economy. If that's the case, we'll ask you a very simple question, but you'll answer with as much clarity as you can, won't you? You, Councillor of Economics, Vice President of the Government of Catalonia, are in favour of pushing some Catalan taxes or believe that there are other measures, other formulas to ensure the profit of this economic growth, guarantee a reduction of the debt deficit and at the same time be able to guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.180.0	Mr. Millo has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.181.0	...or increase social spending? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.182.0	Thank you. The words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.183.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Millo. Members and Members, I could respond to this intervention of various ways and with various tones, the following came to me: first, we do not need in absolute terms the role of the debt and the deficit that feeds this debt, we do not need in absolute terms either we..., nor we, Catalan society, not the Spanish society, not the European, not the United States, not the Japan. The debt is and will be a central element in the economy and politics of all these states, and of many others, in their own decades. We don't need him, and therefore we have to do what we can to fight him. And to fight 'there are some basic instruments – basics –, I will quote two, which I have quoted on other occasions and I seem to remember them. One, to fill the debt bubble there are two basic mechanisms: one, to make economic growth faster than the deficit and, therefore, economic growth diminishes the debt's weight in relation to GDP; to change the ratio between the debt and GDP based on controlling the debt and on raising GDP; they are two instruments that are compatible at the same time. The other is that of nominal GDP growth; that is, inflation, a bit of inflation. All right. On the first track, the Catalan economy is doing very well, in European terms, exceptionally well, because the growth of the Catalan economy is much higher than the growth rate of its deficit – much higher. Therefore, if there is an economy between the euro area and the European Union that is trying to fill this public debt cylinder based on increasing its GDP more quickly than its deficit, it is the Catalan economy. Today, in fact, I have had a meeting with Minister De Guindos, one more, between various meetings with various people who have a role in economic management, as in this case the Spanish Government. I have heard..., I have heard, not in this meeting, but in a few statements to the press, that Minister De Guindos said: « That one_third of the growth of the whole euro area– of economic growth– « is growth of Spanish GDP. And I thought of it as a great element, as a great news. We suppose that's exactly what this is... - and I don't want to go into any detailed discussion, huh? – Suppose this is so, and let's remember that, of Spanish growth, a quarter – in fact, a little more – is economic growth in Catalonia. So, you accept my following rule of three, let's just say, huh? – in Italy in the same proportion –: the Catalan economic growth is an 8, 9_percent of all the economic growth of the euro area. Let's not lose people; it's a very important fact, and what the Spanish Government should do, which is the great tax collector in Catalonia – 95_percent of the taxes that the citizens pay in Catalonia is taken back by the Spanish Government, 95_percent–, what it should do is to take care of this economy, it is to take care of this economic growth, because it is the only one – that is filling the debt bubble, and therefore it is indispensable; the behavior of the whole of the Spanish economy is not complete in absolute terms. The deficit in the Spanish State has increased much more than economic growth. And this in the best given and in the best year of the last decade of crisis. Therefore, the Spanish Government, the Government of the PP and the Government of the Lord De Guindos and of the Lord Montoro are to take care of this economy from which they receive 95_percent of the taxes paid by this economy because it is vital, because the debt capacity of the Kingdom of Spain depends to a great extent on this growth, on the growth of this GDP. So, no, we don't..., I mean, we can do it as much as you want – I'll try not to do it, but, uh? "I think we don't have to do this." What we have to do is try to focus on the big questions, and the big questions are: the issue of the debt will be a central theme in the proper decades, it will be a central theme that we will leave in inheritance to generations that come after our own? Badly, yes. Do we have to fight it? Everything. Does this have to be compatible with preserving growth? It has to be compatible; moreover, GDP growth is essential to effectively combat debt. Would we need a nominal increase, more than anything else, to feed even more the relationship between GDP and debt? Yes, we would go well; a little inflation would go well: in a context that is marked because we carry four_months resulting with an annual deflation – and in the case of the Spanish State, much more months – a little lengthening, stretching us a little bit from this bulwark would be a blessing for entrepreneurs, citizens, etc. So, who's the proposal? Which is one of the elements that can arise in this debate, and which I have tried to explain many times, and it is always a pleasure to be able to explain it again and today explain why you ask me that? That we should do what we can to bring down a little pressure on her to make them medium and low; we should do what we can to bring down that pressure. And that's not new, I've said it for many years – many years –, from, as a minimum – to, as a minimum – a sincere conference dedicated to this issue of July 2013; as a minimum, this. Now, that's possible, isn't it? So it will depend on the decisions that this Parliament will take. It'll depend on that. Because there's no tax ruling, no one, that's good or bad for her herself. Tax decisions, such as fiscal decisions, are good or bad depending on the combination of fiscal policies and the economic context in which we are. At this point, taking a little pressure from mid- and low-returns would have a stimulating effect on consumption, because all that pressure that the three are converted into consumption, and therefore would have a certain role to play in helping economic recovery and economic growth? Would you give us a little bit of this deflation shield? So, probably so. Now, is it feasible to do so in the current context? It will depend on what this Parliament decides, because what is obvious – what is obvious – is that there is no one in the world who can reduce debt, lower fiscal pressure, have socially expanded assumptions, spend more, enter less, reduce... It can't. None. Therefore, we should have the most responsible attitude possible, in this, and the longest possible of short-term electoral considerations. And even from electoral considerations to mid-terms. Or long term. What good will it do you, after this inquiry, or any of the deputies or groups of this chamber, to have a deputy of more or less in the proper elections when what we are playing is the future of the management of our economy, of our society, of the prospects for the future? What's it gonna be for us? What will happen to you, a Member of more or less, to Lleida or wherever, if in the end we do not have the necessary instruments to respond to the needs of our economy, of our businesses, of our workers, of our citizens, of our consumers? So, beyond the considerations that you have made about my person and the merits that you attributed to me at the time of being able to do I don't know how many calculations simultaneously... – certainly, most of them were contradictory to each other; so, if I'm the author of some, it's impossible that I am the author of others at the same time – but in any case I appreciate it very much, because I interpret it as a sign of..., I don't know, of recognition, or as a sign of hope placed in my person. But we don't care about this, what we care about is how we manage this terrible threat that debt represents for our economies in the present and in the future, how we can do it to ensure the growth of our economy and how we can help this growth in the best way possible, and sort out the best measures. I insist, we have a parliamentary mandate, you have instructed us, this parliamentary mandate, in the plethora against the poor, to study tax scenes. Listen, when there's a discussion of assumptions, we'll be happy to give our opinion – it's possible, it's not possible, yes, a little more than that; whatever it is, whatever it is – we'll debate it, and this Parliament will take whatever considerations it thinks are appropriate. So many bo– so many bo– all those who take them thinking about the future of the generations that come after ours and not in any electoral contest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.184.0	Thank you, Vice President. Next, has the word Mr Enric Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.185.0	Of course, I'm sure it will be, for your part. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.186.0	Well, first opportunity lost, counselor, first opportunity lost. You still have another intervention; I don't anymore, this is the..., I end up here, but you still have one second, so you can try to take advantage of it. I look like I've asked him very concrete questions – very concrete. I thank him for the economy class he's done to us; I appreciate it because, more than that, I like to listen to him, no problem. But he'll recognize me a couple of things, at least. One: that the specific question I asked you did not answer it. I've done a lot of things, haven't I? Those who make reference to the differences within the government, I understand that they do not want to answer, no..., surely, therefore, no longer fit, or, quite simply, they do not want to answer and are already, no? But the concrete question of saying: "Look, what is your opinion as Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economics? Do you think that what we have to do is push taxes, as many media have published these past few days? You did, you launched before the very concrete communication means proposed to increase, for example, among other possibilities, the type in the higher IRPF trams of the autonomous part, right? Well, you know perfectly well that this has some very concrete consequences. When his party ruled, in previous stages with the tripartite, he already did, this, he already advanced. And you know what the effects were; you know them perfectly well: more than 3,600 IRPF declarants disappeared, for some reason. Not only did they declare their personal title, they also disappeared companies that declared the company tax here and they moved away to not declare here. Both as a consequence negatively affect our economy. You know that perfectly well, don't you? Therefore, this proposal that you have put forward..., would be very good that here, for the sake of everyone, not only from our parliamentary group, from the Catalans who are listening to us, you say: "Look, no, what some newspapers have published is not what I want to do. That would be good, wouldn't it? And the second. I would also have to admit, surely, that, despite the fact that this is true, the two most important measures that you have explained to combat the debt are obvious, right? ... now that the growth of the..., that the deficit, concretely, therefore, is still not inferior, say, to the economic growth, even though we are in an increase over the 3_per_cent... ; now, you will understand, surely, that passing from a deficit of 9_per_cent, which was found by the current Government of Spain in 2011, when it came to governing, of 9, and that we came almost from an 11, passing so only four years to 5, this is surely the consequence of some kind of policies that had the objective of reducing this, isn't it? So, there we are, in this trend. Therefore, something must have done well for this government, and we must take advantage of this trend. When you say, "What the Government of Spain has not done is worry about the Catalan economy. I can't... go, I totally disagree. I do not share that the Government of Spain is not concerned about the Catalan economy, because you think about it – you think about it – as if the Spanish economy and the Catalan economy were two different things, separated from each other. And it is that the Catalan economy is included in the Spanish economy. And, therefore, if the Spanish economy is well, we are precisely some of the most profitable ones, thanks to the dynamism of our business and economic fabric. So, man, you can't plant one in front of the other, in front of the other, like two different things, can you? Therefore, the key issue of this inquiry, which is where we will focus the motion that we will present to you at your own Ple, is: if you say that we should lower taxes to the middle and lower returns, that we should be able to make this effort, and that this could certainly lead to a positive effect in terms of consumption and thus economic growth, if you think about it, and I believe that, because I have just explained it, and therefore I share it, I listen, we already have a point in common. See? We've already found ourselves at a point we share; there's already a reason to talk about how we do it. If at the same time you say: "No, but I will do this, but on change I will push here and there, then we will start to have discrepancies. But on this subject we already agree. If we agree, which I already explain, I will inform you: we have presented in the Register of Parliament a proposal of law that you have as a result to lower the types on the IRPF's autonomic tram, in the media and download them, without touching the high ones. I'm sure we'll agree. And I place it and invite you to look carefully and fondly at this text that we have submitted, so that we can even include it in the presuppositional debate, and also enter into negotiations on this issue, because the Government of the Generality ceased to lay its hand on the Catalans' buttocks and ceased to lay its hand on the Catalans' payroll, which are the most out of the way. There are other places where you can go to do an investigation, where you can go to increase the tax collection, not to go to the butxaca of those who have a payroll. So, let's do it. Now, there's one thing I really need to criticize, and that's it. You, I think he's hardly coming here to say that what's going to be decided by Parliament. Whatever the Parliament decides next, all right. Now, the government must take initiatives; the government cannot come here without proposals, and says: "No, the parliament will already decide. I ask you that the Government make concrete proposals, and on the basis of these proposals we will be submitting papers. Now, you don't set us up to come up with no proposals and propose or provoke other parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.187.0	Mr. Millo, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.188.0	...they're doing tests to generate the debate. You govern, that's why you're government, and I'm sure everyone will appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.189.0	Next, the Deputy President of the Government, Mr. Oriol Junqueras, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.190.0	I do not know whether to interpret his intervention as a proposal to abstain from the Group of the European People's Party in the debate on assumptions, do I? Did I interpret...? Not so much? [[Pause.]] Not so much. Well, listen, we'll be loving. You ask me to look at it with interest and affection, and I already know that, I can count on it, I seek to look at it with interest and affection, from all parliamentary groups. In fact, we have always said that we will study all the proposals that come to us, because that is why Parliament has mandated us, and therefore how Parliament has mandated us, and how, moreover, we have the intellectual responsibility and policy to deal with this reality which we face, and we will need a majority of Parliament, which is obvious, so, listen, I can count on: we will look at it with interest and affection. I insist, however, on this proposal, in which you say that we agree..., and I am very happy to agree, indeed; I am very happy to agree in opinions, etcetera. Now, again, I explain the same: there is no proposal that it itself is good or bad; they are good or bad depending on the global context of fiscal policies and the economic context in which we are. Therefore, of course, if you make me a proposal that we agree with, but with all the rest it is impossible, so unfortunately, it will hardly be possible to make concrete. If we agree and, more importantly, with all the rest, it makes it viable, so, listen, happy to match. In fact, I believe that the dream of any economic advisor should be that you voted the whole Parliament, a premise. Now, I'll take'm that seems a little likely, let's just say, don't you? He hasn't been anywhere yet. Listen, we still have a chance to get through here, I don't know. Therefore, my position is very clear. You ask me: "What do you think? We should do what we can to do this. Now, to make it possible to silence many other things, yes, of course – yes. That is, to guarantee basic public services, to guarantee economic growth, to find combinations..., yes. If the downswing, for example, was a small downswing... so, listen, maybe just the upsurge of the cycle, the upsurge of activity, so, you know, you'd be comforting, right? Therefore, of course, I depend on intensity, like so many other things in life, on intensity, duration, time. There are many measures that lose effectiveness when applied for a long time, and the marginal utility of a certain fiscal or presuppositional measure, therefore, loses efficiency as you repeat it, if you know it. And this... – you refer to the Government – this is a government that governs this country in a very difficult context, obviously, and you have explained it very well: here is a parliamentary group that is said « Together for the Yes, it is not said « Together for the Yes ; no, it is said « Together for the Yes. And this is yes to Catalonia's independence, to the new republic, to the new state, not because it is. And so, listen, there are things we don't see exactly... [[Funnel veils]] , yes, of course, of course..., oh! It's just that it's very... [[Funnel veils]] Of course, it is a cross-cutting government and a parliamentary majority, probably even more cross-cutting. You will see when you govern the Spanish state with a great coalition with the Socialist Party, or with Ciutadans, or with Ciutadans and the Socialist Party, you will see it whether it is cross-cutting or not. I'll find him. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They say no, they say it won't be cross-sectional, I don't know whether to interpret it as there won't be a coalition or assemble... [[Funnel veils]] , man, all right – all right, all right. So, listen... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Why...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.191.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.192.0	Yeah, that's right, that's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.193.0	Please, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.194.0	Mr. Coscubiela always wants to be a protagonist. [[Rialles.]] We will look with much interest and with much attention to the proposals that Mr. Coscubila brings us, and I will confess that, at last, with a little more emotional proximity than Mr. Enric Millo's, for which we have much esteem, but not as much sympathy as for Mr. Coscubila, who has won it far from the parliamentary sessions that we have held so far. [[Rialles.]] Therefore, listen, there will be a parliamentary debate – a parliamentary debate – which I am sure will be very interesting, in which we hope to be able to provide data, answers and conclusions. We will have to combine measures and hope that these measures..., we will have to ensure that these measures are reasonable in their conjunction, not that each of them, separately, has felt, but that the conjunction has felt. Is it easy? I'm sure you don't. Probably... is this the parliamentary context in which this is going to be harder than the whole history of this Parliament? Probably, yeah. Because you will recognize me that there have been no majorities like these until now; there have traditionally been majorities that were clearer. So, listen, it will be difficult, without doubt, but we are here to do things that are difficult, too; also to do the easy, there are no more and we have had many opportunities, many more, for a long time. We will try to make the difficult, we will try to get out - in, because we esteem this country and its people, and, therefore, listen, so much bo– so much bo– in the end, if it cannot be with the stated vote, continue with a general abstention from Mr. Millo to Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.195.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Some applause.]] [[Inquiries to the Government on immediate measures to address the emergence in the field of housing]] [[300-00052/11]] Next, the question to the Government about immediate measures to combat the emergence in the field of housing, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.196.0	President, thank you very much. Too late to all and so to all. Well, she advises, we need to talk a little more about social emergence, and in this case about the difficulties in accessing or preserving a habitat that affects many families in our country, some difficulties that, in some way, condemn the inequalities and social consequences caused by the years of crisis, and also by austerity policies. But, in view of the current state of affairs, allow me first of all to express and denounce, as we speak of housing emergence, the attitude of the PP government, which is not by resort and foreseeable to be less indignant. The appeal brought before the Constitutional Court, we want to underline it, has a deep antisocial charge; it attacks a law emerging from the street, promoted by social entities such as the PAH, with the support of vehicular and trade union movements and responds to an authentic city cry. The unanimous vote of this chamber on the 24/2015 Law, so it became clear in his day. But, all the while, one time, this, before a social emergence that is not over, we want to underline the need to develop the current legislation, to exploit the resources available to us as we draw up an adjunct legislation that gives employment to everything that has been left unprotected by the suspension of the recurring articles of Law 24/2015. From the outset, it should be remembered that the part referring to the poor Roman energy in force and could be taken forward. But we also have possibilities, for what it does to the Law of the Right to Housing, of 2007, a law escaped in its day for Convergence and the PP through the laws of the same bus, and from which they have made no more use the joints, concretely, to mobilize empty floors in the hands of banking entities, than the same Generality of Catalonia. The joints, we'll talk about it today. They find themselves in the front line to cope with the emergency. They now need the aixopluc, the leadership and all the strength that the Government of Catalonia can represent, above all, for which it negotiates with banks and subsidiary companies. In a word: there is no margin for gesticulations, the necessary and legitimate complaint of the Spanish Government must be followed by decided actions. And that's what we want to plant today. And allow me to do so, referring to a concrete case – a concrete case – and a paradigmatic one. We want to make reference to a case in which the provisions of the Law 24/2015, today suspected, could have avoided. But a case that, at the same time, reveals the lack of operationality and the inadequacies of existing resources. At the beginning of last week, on May 10th, at the Huelva de Badalona street, in the barri de Sant Roc, the family of Mr. Muhammad Parvez and Mrs. Rida Bibi, who are with us today – very late – was denouncing, a marriage with two children of four and five years, respectively. The launch had been called for by [ #] IMP3, a foundation of title at the hands of which passed the mortgage of his pes, originally contracted with the People's Bank, one of the entities– social activists know it– more intransigent and refractory to any negotiation. This means that, in the beginning of April, the mobilization on the street of the PAH of Badalona and of the same vein, of which the Parvez family – a evil family to throw a small boat at the bar – is much appreciated, this mobilization had put up with a first timing of denunciation. This time, however, last week, things were very different, and there was a whole pile of misdemeanours. The denunciation was harsher in the most insensitive way, expelling the people from their homes without delay, without being changed by the presence of the children, nor by the traumatic effect which the use of the police force assumed, ignoring the demands of the veins, and undermining the social services of Sant Roc, which demarcated the margin of a few more days in order to be able to relocate the family, and which had not been prevented by the judgment of the actualization of the denunciation. As the judicial commission said: "We are not obliged by law to prevent. You see here a first and painful observation of the perverse impacts that may have, that is to say, the suspension of the 24/2015 Law. But there are many other facets of the problem that we are dealing with today and that this case poses in replenishment. The expulsion of a family in these conditions clearly represents an injustice, particularly severe for children: it threatens their salvation and development. But, beyond the people directly affected, this denunciation opens the door to difficult problems of coexistence. The veneration of Sant Roc was not conscious. The apartment in question will not trigate, sense of doubt, often to be occupied, if it has not already been, becoming part of a stock of dwellings of a class of mafia real estate that takes control of empty apartments and illegally lodges them. The phenomenon is well known to Sant Roc as in other depressed neighbourhoods of the metropolitan area, especially around the Besòs. They may be aware of this perverse derivative, which lies at the base of frictions between ethnicities and communities that coexist with our barrels and that could lead to confrontations of poor against poor. But when these... how many things have failed, Madam Counselor, in this case? Some, as we say, have insufficient resources; others, with errors or inefficiencies, and depend, above all, on political determination and on what is happening. For example, Ofideute's mediation, a tool of great utility, has failed, but with professional teams often insufficient and overflowing. Two people only in the case of Badalona. The experience of movements like PAH has taught many things. He has taught us that it is possible for financial entities to negotiate, to agree on payments, to restructure mortgages, to arrange mortgages... He has taught us that sometimes, at last, it is easier to negotiate on a voluntary basis, that they have acquired mortgages at a low price and that they can achieve gains, even with relatively affordable agreements for families. But, above all, the experience has taught us that for all this, for each case, it takes a lot of time, many hours and days of intense dedication, to attend and advise displaced families, to seek possible margins of agreement, to find the dedicated interlocutors. Here, yes, more media are needed, greater presuppositional endowment to deal with this delicate and ingenious work. There are other aspects in which political action comes first. Strictly speaking, a court is not obliged to contact the corresponding social services before proceeding with a launch; it is not obliged to do so, but it is common sense, but..., and convenient for the general good that you do, and many times, normally, we could say, that's what it does. We do everything we need, she advises, so that such an elementary measure, written or not, becomes a golden rule to all jutjats. Whatever it takes: solemn recommendations from this Parliament, instructions from the Department of Justice, we promote agreements with the tenors of the different jutjats. There can be no absolutely disregarded actions that we think of or leave social services without room for action to help families. There is also the important issue, which we do not want to fail to mention in this case, of police intervention; an action which, in general, must always be presided over by criteria of proportionality, in situations such as this one should be characterized by special care and the willingness to protect the rights of people, starting with the most vulnerable. A launch, to remind you, is not a high-risk operation against a gang of criminals. We're talking about an honest, well-recognized and cherished family all over the country, with infants. An almost military deployment does not correspond to a conditional launch. How decisive is the leadership of the Government of the Generality. It's the discussion we want to discuss. Certainly, we will trigate years to form a sufficient park of social logger habitats able to meet the needs of the population and to have a decisive impact on the prices of the market. We would have to have a 15_percent, approximately, of social housing, and, as an example, in Barcelona, the proportion is very much in excess of 1_percent. So there's a lot of work going on. We think that, at this hour, the vast majority of the denunciations that are produced in Catalonia – more than a half a day – are due to default. Immediately, we need, therefore, to mobilize a stock of empty floors to cope with the emergence. Some meetings – Barcelona, Terrassa... – have obtained divestitures, and this gives an important margin of action to the social services of the municipality; others, tanmateix, do not have any apartment. It's the case of Badalona, who suffers from a shortage of resources, and so on, to attend to the women who are the object of masculinist rapes. If the joints are found in the front line at the time of social emergence, their abilities are different. It is therefore essential to coordinate efforts, aixopluc and the determined intervention of the Generality. The new design of the emergency table merging the treatment of housing and poor energy problems goes, in a sense of doubt, in the right direction. But, we insist, it is imperative for the government to use its full capacity to influence banking entities and large trusts to access available empty floors. Specifically, as the PAH and other collections have proposed, we would need: to have an up-to-date register of empty dwellings and to make it available to the corresponding local or territorial administrations; to deploy the resources of the Law in force from right to right to habitat, which allows to establish a system of sanctions for which it does to empty floors, and which also provides, in its Articles 32 and 40, for the mobilization of bad dwellings by means of expropriation or temporary use with social purposes. I, not to penalize small owners, set up supposition parties intended to aid the payment of rent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.197.0	Mr. Rabell, you've run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.198.0	... for families at risk of social exclusion and, of course – for this I will talk about in the second place –, the performance of the months of emergence and, in particular, the incidence of the Generality, the performance of the Generality in that unrecorrupted part of the Law 24/2015, which refers to the poor energy and that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.199.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.200.0	...it also seems very important. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.201.0	Next, the words "Governance Advisor", "Public Administrations" and "Habitatge", Ms. Meritxell Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.202.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, to see, I will begin with the beginning, and it is the government's will, as we have stated, to guarantee the right to a habitat worthy of everyone. And, therefore, this happens, obviously, therefore, to the people who most require it, the people who lack the resources to be able to facilitate the habitation, and, therefore, any – only one – denomination, we say in their day, is a drama, and this is a reality that, therefore, we do not flee. But we go into..., you get me into a concrete case, and I, therefore, have been able to retrieve the information, which I appreciate, therefore, to the Habitatge collaborators, because I can also place things strictly as we are. Point number one. Today's law is in force, it hasn't been suspected yet, because we don't have... because this requires all the procedures to come... it has to come to us, and the day of the law, so it's not suspicious. Therefore, if these people have ceased to have habitat, it is not because the law of today is not in force, but for another very different subject, and it is that this bank, which was the owner in its day, passed this habitation to a title fund. A foundation of title which, unfortunately, neither at the time of its parliamentary group nor nor the impulses of the law saw, therefore, that they had to define themselves as..., the foundation of title, as great tenors. The fact that you are not among the definition of the great masters, the foundation of title, makes this element of lack of protection here and that, therefore, you are not obliged to do so, not because the law is not in force, but because there is this small drilling – no law is perfect, neither on 24/2015–, and therefore the foundation of title, unfortunately, unfortunately, may not offer a binding counterpart to the people who are dislodging from their home. So, this is the real situation, which follows a drama, one thing doesn't get the other, but it's not because I don't act the law because it's suspicious, but because the law, in this case, unfortunately, like at least, we see, has a drill, huh? , which is that the title funds, therefore, are not considered to be great masters and, therefore, the title funds can act this way, sadly, in an unpunished way. And that's a reality. For another band, I don't want to entertain myself, but here it was warned the Badalona Assembly that there was a situation of these characteristics, that it had to act through..., that it was not possible to make a social logue compulsory and that, therefore, it had to facilitate a logue between the two, between the assembly and the Generality. With what? With proportions of 60-40, 60_per_cent the Generality, 40_per_cent of the assembly. Specifically, if they're not wrong, then the e-mail was April 29. Therefore, let's face it: a denunciation is a drama, certainly, but this denunciation is not produced because the law is suspected, but because unfortunately no law is perfect; this, however much we consider it very valid and defend it and defend it, therefore, has this situation. That said, I ask that we work, therefore, to ensure that things work; I ask more people to Ofideute, and I also want to value everything that the government has done in this matter, and in the case of Ofideute I believe that we have to put it and say it, therefore, with a firm eye. Listen to me, I'm sure there are more resources in this area as much as we do better, certainly, but the year 2011 there were two people in the field of the Office and at these times we have more than sixty offices working on this subject. Therefore, the government's effort in this matter is important. What maybe we don't have to pose any more? I won't say no, listen to me, but what can't be needed is the real effort that has been made in this matter. Therefore, the obsession, the will of this Government to work firmly in this matter is and will continue to work to achieve the eradication of denunciations, to expand the housing stock under public responsibility, to boost the activity of the sector, especially when we talk about rehabilitation, and, therefore, to ensure the service of basic sub-administrations of what you were talking about, therefore, to vulnerable people. Therefore, listen to me, believe me, the government's commitment in this matter is firm, there is a set of actions, which I can entertain, therefore, to explain to you, that there are many; that resources, I insist, surely, will never be enough, but that there are and there are many. From the start, the year 2015, escorted'm, almost 49,000 aids in payments of llogers– 49,000 aids –, 85_million euros; it's not any xifra, it's an important xifra. And in the last four years, from 2012 to 2015, 247 million aid to logue; and this has been increasing. Apart from, logically, what is, therefore, the direct management of social housing; 25,000 housing, concretely, some of these properties of the Government of Catalonia, but from other sources from the private park or from financial entities. And here there is also a very clear obsession on the part of the government, which is that we want a park of habitats that we are obsessed with to expand. And despite the fact that resources aren't what we want, we do that. And so, this year, therefore, 2016, we have, thanks to the Law of the deposit of empty habitats, of 11,3_millions that will translate into 260 new habitats. Unfortunately, the year that we will not have our resources because, therefore, this law too, the Spanish Government has brought it to the Constitutional Court and has suspected it. Or, listen, the agreements that we have made, therefore, with the different banking entities, which have provided us with 1,800 convenient ones, which have provided us with 1,830 empty habitats, given to these entities in order to be able to arrange it precisely for those people who require it and, therefore, for the most vulnerable families. Or, listen to me, I was talking about Ofideute, I told him, therefore, about the significant increase of people who are working there, about the resources we have, but I also say that they rise to more than 1,800 cases since 2012, which have resolved in a positive way. Or, listen, here we talk a little bit, sometimes, but also the help that, therefore, is very direct to the third sector through the network of social inclusion habitats. And here, therefore, we are talking about a collection also with very specific needs, and that the third sector is doing a great job, and from here the harvest and, concretely, the 2,1_million destined for this concrete field. And explaining the law: listen to me, we, this law we took very seriously, we worked deeply, you know. You know that we have, therefore, carried out different informational guides, eight, concretely, that both addresses to the joint venture, as to the financial entities, to the professional, to the families who suffer from this situation; that we have conducted new training sessions in the territory to inform and train the technicians of the joint venture, which, as you say, on many occasions are the entrance door of the people who need, and in this sense, housing. And so, listen to me, we've changed the rules of the Emergence Table to avoid what we say, haven't we? To avoid, therefore, these..., any launch that is produced without guaranteeing, therefore, a habitation. Well, listen to me, in the matter of the law we are dealing with, you know that, therefore, the work that has been done is very much; you also know that the situation in which we find ourselves is that, in an imminent way, this law will be suspicious and that, therefore, it is obvious that we are working – and we are working intensively – because in the legal field we can arrange, well, we expect it to be... They are working in a very firm way from the technical field of the same department; in the area of the Council of Advocates' Laws, that I sincerely thank them for their cooperation; also, legally, therefore, those who are the impulses of the Council of Advocates' Laws, that I thank you very sincerely for your cooperation; and, legally, that I am the one member of the Council of Ministers of the Church, or of the Church, who is a member of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church, of the Church. Therefore, listen to me, despite the fact that the People's Party's appeal is regrettable because in the accounts of guaranteeing the rights to a habitat worthy of the conjunction of the people of the Spanish State, for which they have chosen to eliminate the rights that from the Catalan laws that the year..., therefore, in the previous legislature much work had been done in this matter and, therefore, we regret this situation. But it's obvious that we can act not only to have a law that gives us solid at the time of acting, that's what the mayors and mayors called us, and in this sense we are working, but also working in a preventive way and in the meantime, every day, right? And so, today, I insist, the law is in force, we know that at any time it will be suspended, but we also know, as you said, that there is enough material, because the previous mandate was a very prolific mandate from a point of view, therefore, of new legislation in this matter. And, therefore, well, surely in the second answer I will have the opportunity to answer what actions..., and also, in line with the requests made to us by the same driving group, we are working to meet all the people who require it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.203.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.204.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, counselor, no, it's a little more complicated. We know the concrete case, and I'm not going to be in this because we'd like to use this case just to illustrate a set of problems, huh? There are many mortgages that are currently found in the hands or on the back, because they have been bought – and the back have a legal entity – or ownership funds that do not have a legal entity, and this effectively raises a problem, even a problem about the legality of an established denunciation for someone who does not have a legal entity, legal personality. This is a debate and I assume that one day we'll have to address a law about... there's already some evidence of case law about this, which some magistrates have considered to have not been able to instigate a denunciation from this point of view. But in the case we're talking, it's not this problem, it's everything that's revealed. It has revealed the fact that Ofideute..., which, precisely, effectively, has increased since 2011, but since 2011 has greatly increased the charges in this country. In a city as Badalona is overwhelmed, there are two people who have to manage extremely complex situations. The question is not a criticism of Ofideute, but precisely the need to equip them with the resources to do a magnificent job that they are doing, but that goes beyond the possibilities of two people. The performance of the courts has failed, and on this day, that, listen, there are things that are presuppositional and other things that would require an intervention and a specific part of the Generality to give the instructions, the instructions, to sign the agreements, the agreements of collaboration, that make these situations cannot be produced in this way. The police action itself, which has often been very correct, in this case it was not, we have to go with it, and this is not a presuppositional issue, it is a question of the directive of the Councillor of the Interior to deal with humane situations of this type. From this point of view, we'll check it out. But we would like to insist on one aspect – and I finish with this – there is a part of the law that has not been used, that is that of poor energy, that is fully in force, and here, just social entities like the PAH, that claim is the time that we have worked and that we still do not agree with the great sub-administrative companies. And we have to think that from this point of view, the negotiating capacity of the assemblies, which are on the front line, is not the same as the potential that an autonomous administration like the Generalitat de Catalunya can have. Therefore, this is what we are asking for; this is what we are asking for and what we are proposing. And I would like to say that the other questions that we are raising and that have also revealed in this case of Badalona..., told them that the Badalona Assembly did not have an apartment to deal with situations of housing emergency; no, not just situations of gender-based violence. Therefore, show to what extent a combined effort is needed to mobilize resources that, to the extent that they are limited, can play a game together, to social services, by means of rotation, to stop, to attend to the most extreme and urgent situations. That is why, in these terms, we will substantiate our motion for a proper ple, and we hope that, effectively, in the detail and in the realization of all these measures that we think possible – that we think possible – we will find ourselves there, that we will find ourselves here because I believe that we have all folds – the Government, the opposition, the whole chamber – the political responsibility, I would say almost moral, before the gravity of the situation, to weave a set of operational complicitys in order to face a situation that calls for the cell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.206.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, if I were to get into the concrete case, it's because you put it to me as an example, and I also thought it was interesting to explain in some concrete cases what the situation is and, therefore, what it is. Running away a little, to hear 'us, of the concrete case, I think we agree that this cooperation between the local world and also the Government of Catalonia. We are aware, very conscious, that the entrance door, and before that, on many occasions is the local world, eh? They're social workers on many occasions. And so, in this sense, they're the front door. And that's why – that's why – there's the will, and we're actually working on it, to strengthen cooperation with the local world, right? And it's obvious that not all the gatherings, you quote, have the same, we could tell, muscle at the time of giving answer. This is a very clear topic. But, you see, we're going to walk. It seems to me that you mentioned it, but I think you should put it in value. Yesterday, didn't you? , the executive council approved what is the fusion of the two emergencies: that of..., in sur« habitat..., but it is not, it is « denunciations, it is the name, and that of the poor energy, and it becomes the Table of Emergencies of Habitat and Poor Energy. And so, less than one, we think it will be constituted, complementing the mandate we have of this Parliament, and we have already established the first contacts to name all that need to be and to pull it forward. Therefore, this is an element that, logically, and in the subject you mentioned to us, we will need to continue working on. I think that's why we need to put a whole series of themes into value too... and it's the functions that we have every single one of them. In this sense, the Law 18/2007, which is the Law of the right to housing, establishes in a very clear way that, for a principle of subsidiarity, to sanction the great tenors the first one to act is precisely the local world, it is the assemblies. And, in fact, for our part, we have helped, we have collaborated, we have given clubs, because they can act and, therefore, because, in this sense, they act. But when he didn't do the local thing, we did, and I announced it in a parliamentary question, we acted against some great tenors... which, logically, if he didn't act the local world we would have to act. But, listen to me, you also mentioned to me the need to keep this register of empty or occupied habitats without enabling title..., which is updated. And here we work, too. And this is certainly a necessity, that of carrying out permanent control and updating, we could say, for as long as we hold it together, and as long as we can bring..., to the compliment of the social function of the property that establishes the law cited above, that of 2007, 18/2007. And it is here, and I believe that together I can say that it is not so, that, on the part of the Government of the Generality, when the list of empty dwellings is requested, that in a simple way it is as everyone knows it, logically, the Government of the Generality has yielded it because the assemblies can act, that, I insist, it is the ones who have, we could say, the obligation to act in first order. Therefore, believe me..., I believe that the government's actions in this area, both in terms of energy poverty and housing, are multiple and diverse; that this is an issue on which we can say that we have the banya; that it is an issue in which we are clear that, as I said in a principle, there is only a denunciation, this is a drama. And so, in this sense, we have legislated, so it was done in the previous mandate, we have developed the laws, so we have done it and we follow it at these times, and we strengthen it economically, in an important way, all this matter. Because, listen to me, the performances must be multiple, they must be diverse, the performances must be in front of the situations of housing emergence. And it's in this sense that we have to find each other, there can be no other way, surely, the political groups, but also the local world and the government of Catalonia. It is only from the collaboration of all folds that we can give answer to a need that exists, and in capital letters. Because I insist: a denomination sun is a drama we can't even set ourselves. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-18-1601.207.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
