ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.1.0	It's part of the session. I don't know if he can take it back, because the counselor is missing. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Low Pain. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's a reprehensible session, yes, yes. Very good morning to all of you. [[Asking the Government about the child protection system]] [[300-00073/11]] Let's keep the order of the day. The aim of the agenda is: to ask the Government about the system of protection for children, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms Gemma Lienas. [[Pause.]] The counselor has arrived. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Mrs. Lienas, the counselor has already arrived... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.2.0	I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.3.0	It's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.4.0	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.5.0	When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.6.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone; counselor, good morning. Our system of declaring a minor creature of divour is based on the Law of Rights and Opportunities in Childhood and Adolescence, which has an article that says: "Public powers must provide protection and assistance to families so that they can fully assume their responsibilities. And he also says: "The needs of infants and adolescents must be met where they live and grow, whenever possible. The Administration, therefore, would have to age to help families that are in a difficult situation, a situation that sometimes puts the development of their creatures at risk, already a punctual situation, for example, a complicated divorce, a situation..., an unforeseen economic circumstance, a severe illness; or an ongoing risk situation, for example, a permanent economic level in the face of poverty, a low intelligence coefficient, a poor sociocultural level... We have been talking to the Sympathetic and Prodeme entities – I am sure you have also been able to read these days about articles from Catalonia Plural and the Education Diary – we have seen that the majority of unemployment..., it is said, there are cases in which, mostly, it is necessary to separate the creature from his family environment; for example, for sexual abuse, for physical abuse, for criminal, labour or sexual exploitation or for abandonment. These cases, according to the data that has been uploaded to the DGAIA website, represent 17 or 18_percent of the cases. The other 82 or 83_per_cent of the disemployments correspond: the 70_per_cent to negligence and the other 12 or 13_per_cent to emotional maltreatment and, probably, very often, it could be avoided without taking the creatures from their familiar surroundings. You will tell me, Counselor, that it is for the best of infants, which is certain, but not completely. And with this I do not want to accuse anyone of doing their work badly or to wage a war with the DGAIA, but I want to raise the need for a debate, which is urgent, around the child protection system, which is often not so, but is a violation of the rights of children, their families. Let's have a few questions. First question: who does the disenchantment? The EAIA teams, which are formed by one person specializing in psychology, another expert in pedagogy and another in social education. They are teams that work alone, without control of the mind; sometimes with few resources and with strength by. If they decide not to spare the creature and finally to this something happens, as happened in the Alba case, the responsibility is of the team and ultimately of the DGAIA. In change, if they disembark and fail, they never pay the consequences of their error. If it was a medical mistake, we pose for the case, you should take responsibility for it. And why do you think, Counselor, that no one ever asks you for responsibilities for a disempowerment that was not necessary? For two essential reasons. The first is that generally the families who see deprived of their creatures come from very depressed socioeconomic classes, for which they do not have monetary resources, knowledge, contacts and, therefore, usually never bring the case to justice. If at any time the father or the mother takes legal action, it means that it is a family that does not belong to the social class, to the social extract of which we have spoken so far. In this case, the family is uncomfortable for the Administration, which with everything – and this is the second reason – see how the judiciary ends up giving him his blessing because, of course, he did it for the best of the child. It is obvious that between sinning by little or sinning by mass, the teams of the EAIA are healed in salvation. Actually, a lot of us would do it, too, maybe, and they'd work out more, much more than it wouldn't be necessary. I assure you, counsel, we haven't seen many cases. It is obvious that the neurologic sequelae suffered by Alba, the girl to whom her parents abused, are terrible, but they are not least the psychological sequelae that will leave in many creatures the unjust separation of their family nucleus and their step towards a protected center three, four or more years of their life, without counting the sequelae that all this leaves in their families. Second question: what does the EAIA work consist of? The EAIA investigates a family nucleus from, sometimes, a clue that can be minimal. To give them some real examples: a girl admitted to a hospital for a crisis of anxiety because of the difficult divorce that confronts her father and her mother; makes a picture that the psychologist of the hospital interprets as compatible with mistreatments. Or another case, a man who has lost custody of his daughter judicially, denounces the mother to DGAIA and the accusation of suffering mental illness. The EAIA makes use of a specific chipping tool, which in some aspects has an obvious social class bias, and which allows subjective interpretations. There is no protocol indicating how the visits are to be made, how many people, under what conditions, or how many are to be made. Interviews are neither serious nor independent witnesses of the EAIA team; there is no awareness of these interviews. Nor does it take into account what the creature wants, despite the fact that our law says that children and young people must be heard in the administrative or judicial proceedings in which they are directly involved, especially after the twelve years, but not only before. And above all, if you tell him why that measure applies, which is not said. Finally, the EAIA, often based solely on clues and not on fecund evidence, decides the measure to be taken, a measure that applies through an administrative resolution, but if the family wants to recover the creatures, it has to do so by judicial means. And yet another task remains to be done to the EAIA: to deliver a work plan to the family so that I can correct the errors that led to that atzucac. I, fixed's, will advise, if you are not shambles or irregular: the same people who have treated them the creatures, from which they are ill-fifty, quite rightly, are the same people in whom they have to trust to recover them. It's unusual; in other areas it could give a situation like this. On the other hand, the work plan is written in such complicated terms that it is a PhD in philology to understand what is being asked. Moreover, whatever is required, they are often intangible, impossible to prove, and even though they are tangible, they are unrealizable in our society, for example, having a decent wage or a work contract. And to finish, the work plan is not binding, it's to say, that even though they try hard, the most likely thing is that they never get back the custody of their children. The third question is, who are the families going through this lane? Most families are resourceless families. And it is that, as the director of DGAIA told me when I complained that we were going to be poor, and he denied me... but he finally said to me: "The families of the upper part of the city, even though they have problems of intelligence or mental illness, or of consumption of toxins, have resources. So, this is not a reason to separate creatures from their family nucleus, counselor. I'm sure you share our reasoning. This is a motive for helping them, economic help. I want to remind you that a square in a guardianship center costs almost four thousand euros per month per creature and that these moneys could be invested in the family. In support of training in parental skills, it is true that they currently have courses in the program "Creating as a family, which are very interesting, but they do not just serve – then, if you want, in the reply, I will explain to you why, now I do not have time –; help in services and scholarships, bressol schools, eating schools, also in the summer, I graduated during the seasons that the schools are closed or the months that are closed. And we could still ask ourselves many more questions: how is the end of unemployment? Is it certain that the police are carrying on a school creature and that the family found out they don't have it when they've been looking for her? I quote the family to the DGAIA and that there, without warning, I take the creatures and have to gather them, without drama, I say – I would make a terrible one, counsel, if I went through this. What happens to all the children and children we declare in disempowerment? Does the Administration do better for them that they wouldn't have made their families? I know that the DGAIA is convinced that this is the case, but there is not enough conviction, we need data; and of data, counsel, there is no data. And what do I know about how long the lawsuits last? Time, for a creature, is not the same as time for an adult person. I know, Counselor, that we have great professionals, I know we do it as well as we can, but there's not enough. I insist, I think it's time to rethink the child protection system, because if not, we are running into institutional mistreatment, even though this issue is not covered in the few statistical data we have at our disposal. I want to end up with a quote from a book of Jaume Funes, The Place of Childhood. Says: "An adult can claim an economic benefit to which you think you have a right. A child cannot claim that someone is helping his mother – or his father, I add – "because I can make a mother" – or a father. Des de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, we ask for a rethink of the system. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.7.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Reply to the Counsellor, Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Wasn't it on? So... I do see it here, huh? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.8.0	No, it doesn't work; it's the same, president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.9.0	Time doesn't work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.10.0	They're coming down, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.11.0	...but now they're coming to fix it, okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.12.0	Good morning; good morning, President, you'll let me know when you're convinced to cut; therefore, we'll do what we can. Thank you, honourable Member, for your intervention. To say, first of all, that we base ourselves – and I suppose we both have it very clear – on a 2010 law that takes a step forward – that takes a step forward – therefore, a law of six years ago, that what it does is to change to what there were, many small laws, but that, above all, what it does is to unite them to defend, above all, the rights of infants. And I believe that in this Parliament we need to be very conscious, that the first of all are the rights of infants. The children can be in the family, you said it, and the best way to be... family is the best way to get through it. That's why, from the Department to this legislature, we've been... we've been saying for a while now, that being at the side of families would be our priority – at the side of families. And we firmly believe that infants from zero to six years is the age at which they are to be in families. That is why I have also said in other questions or other questions that our idea is that there is no child from zero to six years in the centre, but that, if their rights cannot be assumed between the same family, they can go with families to gather or they can go with extended families. So, I wanted to say and I want to make it clear, first of all, that..., the natural family; then, the extended family; then, the family of collide, and, as last resort, the center. And that's what the law says, but it's also a firmly defended theme for me personally as a counselor, but it's also for the whole department. Therefore, this right of infants represents much more than anything we can say about the right of each family. First of all, the children's welfare. What are the needs of a child or adolescent? Physical and biological needs – and we are all clear about this: food supply, "living, clothing, hygiene... – protection of real risks from their integrity; health; cognitive needs – therefore, an environment with a sense of purpose, understanding of physical and social reality, attitudes, values... –; emotional and social needs. And the circles, some very clear basic spheres: the bond of affection, which is what gives security– for this to say ‘first of all, the families, their surroundings–; the functions of parenthood– healing, education and protection–, and connecting it with a environment that is subject to what it interacts with. At DGAIA level, what do we have to do? In a case of difficulties – in a case of difficulties – the first to do: a level of preventive intervention, and that's what we're doing before all; therefore, parenting ability above all. A second level, of training and support; therefore, an intervention with training and support for families. And finally, as last point, the level of treatment. You, when you've made your intervention, give the feeling that any problem there is the first that's done is to take the infants, take them out of their family environment, take them out of the social environment that they have... And what I wanted to say is that exactly what is being done is completely backwards. There may be a case or two, three, the ones that follow, that are to remove the infants, but these are the last cases, that are to disempowerment. And then I'll give it figures, because you see how the situation went. I, first of all, wanted to thank the great task of the DGAIA professionals – which you have also said – because they are people who are there every day, who are there all the time and who are at the side of families who are experiencing very complicated difficulties and therefore their environment is complicated for everyone. What we do, as I said before, is the impulse to family reunification – I have already explained this, and therefore I think that they are completely clear – and we have not really presented the right..., the subjective well-being of foster teens in Catalonia, where it is also decided that the situation of any child, any adolescent in the family environment is much better than around the center. So, I give you the reason for this, we're both in the same box. And the ultimate goal, above all, is to put childhood at the centre of all our public policies, to age so that they have access to all possible opportunities and so that they can build a full and autonomous future. Therefore, public investment in childhood issues is a priority. The data I can give you and the issues of unemployment are who are the situations of unemployment, only of unemployment. He knows we're working in two spheres: one is when the infants have a risk situation and the other is when the situation is decommissioned. In a situation of risk what we always do, what DGAIAs and EAIAs do is prevention, round-the-clock training, and ultimately, as a last resort, disempowerment. Only when there is unemployment when there is abandonment; when there is physical or psychological maltreatment; when there is severe harm, when it is born, caused by prenatal maltreatment; when the inadequate exercise of guarding functions involves a heavy danger; when there is psychological disruption or alteration or drug dependence of the parents; when the sub-administration to the child or adolescent of drugs, stupid, up to the point that it is sub-administered...; when there is physical, psychological or emotional neglect, male-based rape or obstruction of the parents and guardians in investigative activities, which is when there is some problem more severe. Therefore, the risk situations are very strong and the law so that the infants are the first, that we have the infants as key and that we have this... You're talking to me about the cribrating instruments. In fact, what we carry this 2016-2017 is a quality plan of the DGAIA, a quality plan that is the third quality plan of the DGAIA, 2016-2017, which means continuous improvement in the child protection system. The object of the plan is to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the services, because also taking into account the opinion of the users is important – an issue that was not taken into account in the previous plans. And to achieve this we have put it on the five points line: the first, better quality and safety in the care of infants; second, better technical quality of the different services of the DGAIA; third, compromised with learning, research and innovation; fourth, social responsibility of the DGAIA, and five, leadership and attention of professionals. But, in addition, taking into account the opinion of the users, he wanted to highlight that we are working to establish listening and increasing spaces for real participation that could make children, adolescents and families protagonists of the whole process. First of all, infants – and I repeat it again, I will not tire of repeating it –; adolescents, in the case of adolescents, and in the second term, families. And second, design and perform satisfaction studies of the same children and their families. I also want to say that we are working in the professional realm, as it could not otherwise be. Therefore, we are with five important points: promoting the space of reflection and support; as you know, EAIAs are at different points in Catalonia, and what is being done is a job to target all that is the subject of cribrages and all the general regulations; updating and diversifying training in management, especially in the extreme, which is very professional; the profiles of the protection system, and the detection of good practices in order to be able to make a two-way transfer. In these moments, what I can tell you is that of the 12,655 expedients that were opened in 2015, 1,860 have assumed a protective measure. So, we're not talking about a lot of kids, and this protective measure isn't all in the center, but it's protective measures, as I said very well..., extended family, alien family, preadoptius, others and, last but not least, hosted in the center. Therefore, they are an 11_per_cent who end up in protective measure, of all the expedients. And, as you know, the risk does not see for the people of DGAIA, but for the rest, that it can be social services, that it can be hospitals and that it can be school centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. Got the word Mrs. Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.14.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. You explained to us what is ideal, and we agree, with what you explained, but it's not a reality, it's what we want. We agree that they ideally have to be with their own family, with the foster family as the second option, and in a center as the third, but that's not what it is. We agree that we need to solve the material, emotional and cognitive needs of the creatures, but that's what we tell him he's not doing. We told him that families who have problems of this type find themselves helpless on the part of the Administration. I didn't say that always, in children, he'd come out of the nucleus: I said that he was abusing this measure, I said that the teams were out of control. Because I understand it, it's human: between you and a creature are trembling and blaming you for it, or that this creature is being removed from the family environment and having some problems that you won't even see and that you won't be asked for responsibilities, I would also choose for the first time. But this can't work that way, we need to check the system. In fact, he said the same thing that I said in the question of when he is gone and when he is not gone: he said that there are situations of risk, that they are the same ones that I have quoted, in which he puts the disappearance. Indeed, if there is sexual abuse or physical abuse... whenever these questions are demonstrated. What we don't agree with is that they declare disemployments when only situations are of negligence; here I'm sure I could intervene a lot more the Administration. I'll give you some examples. For example, I will base myself on the two I told you before: the girl who entered the hospital and drew a picture that the psychologist interpreted as compatible with mistreatment. That girl was taken from her father, when she arrived at the hospital there was no longer, if the police had taken her, and two days later they quoted him to the DGAIA with the other two creatures and they had him left there. That's what happens to everyone; that's to say, if it's risky, they find that the police have already gone to look for them, and if it's not risky, they tell them to go to DGAIA and there they take the creatures and take them away. For example, this mother who gave him... because this father has recovered the creatures; years later, they gave him the reason and recovered them. There are people who have recovered them, there are people who have just started balding. For example, the woman I tell her that her man – certainly a worker from a centre of..., a CRAE – denounced her after a divorce trial in which she had lost custody of the child, denounced her because this woman had a mental illness; mental illness that no one has shown. And anyway I insist: it cannot be that the mental illness or the coefficient lower are motius to pull a creature from his home. I remember, a few years ago, there was a break-up of the creatures of a mother who was bipolar, who made me very nervous, because I am the daughter of a bipolar man and does not do anything about it, because I think that mental illness should be naturalized. Everyone here... well, not everyone, but there is a very high percentage that at some point in life will cross the border and will be sick or mental ill. So I don't mind saying that I'm the daughter of a person with bipolar illness, and no one ever separated me from my family, perhaps because, as the director of..., Ricardo Calvo, perhaps because I lived at the top of the city and my parents had resources; but that's not a reason to take a child from his home. I want to read some questions. For example, I have one that has to see how these cribrating tools that I gave you before are interpreted. For example, there is an indicator that has to do with physical abandonment or neglect; he says: "The infant or adolescent has a poor diet, lack of hygiene, inadequate stuff for the time of the year. Now look how I read the DGAIA team that made the report because they swallow this creature from their home; say: "The one day we don't wear sandwiches we discover and let's take a rain shower. Well, maybe he doesn't have any other Sabbaths. That's what the report says. Counselor, I can give you many examples of many reports. He also said: "The infant is overly hanging from the adult. So what? O: "The sea has strange conducts. I don't know what they're hearing about strange behaviors, these people. We need clear, shared and supervised criteria, advise. We need a system that doesn't remove the creatures from the family nucleus, but helps the families. And not with plans like this one gave; I'll read them a point just because they see that it's complicated to hear: "Progenitors will have to demonstrate resources and consistent personal abilities with emotional stabilization criteria before vital events; they will have to have close or identification distresses, recognition and search for support at the time of assertive confrontations so that they produce and do not lead to exaltation, avoidance or flight that compromises the stability of children. Do you really think, counsel, that any family we're talking about knows what to do with this?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.15.0	Mrs. Lienas, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.16.0	So, I'm done. I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.17.0	No, no, it's over. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.18.0	Just one thing. I wanted to tell you, Counselor, that since we are very, very, very ill and that we should... I really find them very scarce and, moreover, are not disaggregated. I think we also have to make an effort in this sense. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.19.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.20.0	Thank you, President. I think I should give an example of one, the other, who gets a sentence out of a report... giving me all the numbers. I'll give you 12,000 open shippers... – I'll be there this year, 2015, and I can tell you what we've got so far, huh? , 2016 –, 12,000 open shippers, an 11_per_cent have ended up in protective measure, which means that they have been shown to be at risk or demonstrated in unemployment; of these..., of this 11_per_cent only a 3_per_cent are in unemployment. Therefore, from this 3_per_cent of the dotze_mil you are talking about one case or another. But, well... it's true, let's see, if this case... only if there's a case can be reviewed, and as long as it can be reviewed! But I will already explain to you what we are doing in government action, because before we arrive at this end we have very clear data, and I can tell you from the number of professionals who are working with all the teams... Miri, at this time there are 2,566 professionals who are working: in assembly centers, 490; in CRAE, 1,200; in CREI, 74; in floors of seven years old, 63 professionals; in floors of more than one year old, 60 professionals; for job placement, 14; for SAD, therefore, the service, 120 in children's homes– that we have not spoken, that is another preventive measure–; in EAIA, 366 in all Catalonia, that you spoke. So, you're giving me one case, two cases, three cases... that we need to review, and it's true that they don't have to go through. So this is where he's gonna keep us. That's why this year in our program contracts we have two important themes. One, the non-residential socio-educational intervention service for infants and adolescents at risk and their families. For the first time, give much more importance to prevention with 9_million euros for the assemblies so that they can make this prevention. But, of the cases you tell me, it's as if DGAIA detected the problem and DGAIA did. And you know it's not like that. You know who detects the problem is around the family, it's the school, it's the hospitals or it's the social services themselves. So we're talking about these nuclei. Attention to the need to protect children to cover their needs: we increase the premise, the territorial gap of the whole territory of Catalonia – another thing that has not yet existed – and clear transparency in the publication of all the requirements, both to enter any of the socio-educational centers as to be able to have problems of DGAIA. It is true that the infants are taken at the time of being from without giving information, but there have been four months of investigation, four months of work that cannot be said..., just as it is not possible to say to the labour inspectorate as it is working, it is not possible to say how they are working, because obviously it would alert situations, that have passed some time, families that have left, that have left the territory, that have gone to other countries to alienate and that then there has been the abuse of the children and the death of the children. Therefore, as I said to the principle, the Children's Law, which was made by this Parliament, which is a pioneer in the protection of children, must be above all else. We will continue to deploy this law, which knows that there is a fact that it has not been deployed; we will review..., and, as I say, these program contracts will allow us, with these 9_millions, that all the assemblies can have this preventive service that until now was not. And at the end of the day, I'll tell him that as it is clear that the protection of infants must be above all else, if it is appropriate to review, but he always knows that in the end there is a judge, that he can go to the judge, that there is a lawyer of offices. You talk to me about one case, two cases; I talk about 12,000 shippers and these 12,000 shippers only an 11_per_cent are at risk. And we'll keep working for prevention. If in place of 12,000 shippers this 2016 we have 24,000–24,000 –, because there is only one small hint of a child who has problems the Generality will be at his side and we will defend him above all else. Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.21.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Widow's remorse.]] There's a proposal to alter the order of the day. In accordance with the request made by the Government and the conformity of the parliamentary groups concerned, the proposals, according to Article 81.3 of the Rules, alter the order of the day of this plenary session in such a way that the inquiry to the Government on the future Catalan public bank and the Catalan Institute of Finance, currently item 13, can be substantiated at the place of item 17, relating to the inquiry to the Government on the creation of fiscal and financial administrative structures, and item 17 was founded as item 13. Can it be approved by consent, this alteration? [[Pause.]] Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm begging you to keep quiet, please. [[Question to the Government about self-employment]] [[300-00075/11]] The next item is the question to the government about the autonomous work presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. In order to present it, Ms. Laura Vílchez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.22.0	Thank you, President. "Invisible, this is the title that we could have given to this inquiry, because today I come to talk to you about self-employed workers, a collective of which this Government also forgets, as I said to you, councillor, in the plenary of fifteen days ago. To put it into practice, I will give you data from the latest report published by the Ministry of Employment on the evolution of self-employment in the first half of the year. In Catalonia there are, as of the end of June 2016, 548,227 self-employed workers. A negligible figure that has been increased in the last six months by 1.4_per_cent, which represents a total of 7,803 more people recently discharged into the special self-employment regime. Hopeful data, since Catalonia had already accumulated a 9.4 decrease in recent years, far above, for example, Andalusia, where the accumulated decrease was only 2.2. A lot of work destroyed, a lot of self-sustaining work destroyed, and the Administration has been looking the other way. I do not know if you know it, but I, who live it closely, can tell you that being self-employed is not easy, because it has the worst of being an entrepreneur and the worst of being a worker; paying payroll and ensuring that there is no shortage of work, so that it can be reached by the end of the month, with much more limited labour rights than a worker on behalf of others. And it is not always autonomous because it has an entrepreneurial spirit, which also, but sometimes the situation of job uncertainty like the one we live in leads us to make up for the possibility of becoming autonomous in order to get out of unemployment. Among this group there is a part that deserves an express mention, and it is the autonomous women. Autonomous women are playing a role in economic recovery and employment generation. Women-led businesses stay longer in time and have managed to recover pre-crisis levels. This is one of the conclusions that Ana Cabrero points out in the last report of the Women's Area of ATA, the national federation of self-employment. Sandra Zapatero, for her part, of the CTAC, of the Catalan Confederation of Autonomous Workers, says that in Catalonia they have been the real engine of the economy and the one they have undertaken most in recent years. Both recognize the need to implement policies to ensure entrepreneurship and self-employment on an equal footing. And from Ciutadans we give them reason, as it couldn't be otherwise. Because by analyzing, as I say, the latest published data, we have come to the conclusion that we are facing an immense paradox: although autonomous women are doing much better than autonomous men, they are still an immense minority; and despite leading successful businesses in sectors as important to the Catalan economy as trade or hospitality, the Administration ignores them. We believe, therefore, that the Administration is not doing everything it can for self-employed workers. As we have already been in this Parliament for a while and have started to know each other, counselor, I suppose you will answer me with a lack of competence, but I have to tell you that in this case it does not fit. And it doesn't stick because communities such as Madrid or Cantabria – Madrid, with approximately the same skills, and Cantabria with less – implement measures such as, for example, through subsidies, extending the duration of the flat rate offered by the State. To work in Congress there are many proposals that Citizens will present, for example, such as the one they presented last March, to give coverage and facilitate the return to the activity of self-employed workers during and after pregnancy. Also there we will talk about quotas that must be exempt for..., as long as minimum benefits are not obtained. Measures to boost self-employment needed because the Government of the People's Party did not actually help, which by a real decree eliminated deductions for self-employed women when they re-entered the activity in July 2012. But I don't want to talk to you about it, Counselor. And I do not want you to answer me with a criticism of the Government of Spain, which we would surely share. I want to talk to you..., and we will propose constructively, measures that can be carried out from Catalonia, as is already done – as I have already mentioned – in other communities. But before exposing them in the subsequent motion, we would like, counsel, to tell us if you also have a plan for self-employed workers in Catalonia. Explain to us that plan that your department has prepared to improve the conditions of the Catalan autonomous. You know that it is really difficult for Spanish women to access the labour market, but if we take into account that at the end of 2015 women were responsible for 42.3 growth within self-employed workers, perhaps it would be interesting to start thinking about specific policies for them. I want to insist on this point and remind you again, and by the way ask, that six years ago the Català Council of the Autonomous Work should have been convened. The Government announced that it would be convened in June, after interested us in the topic fifteen days ago it replied that we would give it another month. Now it's fifteen days away: tell us how the topic is. And I urge you because it is important that this body be set up so that your department has an important ally in it to mark the way to follow them in the most efficient way possible, with real first-hand information. Some self-employment specialists see a good way out of unemployment as self-employment, which does not include distinctions of age or nationality, and plays in favour of family and work reconciliation in many cases without the struggle to reduce the wage gap. Do you think they could do more than they do? When women pay less, they receive pensions.... much lower benefits than men: hence the three-point increase in the risk of female poverty. Many of the women who suffer from it also lead single-maritime families with dependent children. And with all this panorama, counselor, what is this government doing for autonomous women? , or by the group of self-employed in general? Is there a specific program for them? Or any concrete facility for them? The self-employed are and would be a source of job creation if you supported them. Perhaps you should take them more into account when drawing up active policies to put an end to the unemployment suffered mainly by groups as vulnerable as those over forty-five years of age or single-parent families. In short, Counselor, do you have any ideas in your department to promote the establishment and consolidation of the self-employed? We do. And we believe that it is possible in a coordinated complementary way to extend the time of the flat rate already granted by the State. Or do your department have any ideas to avoid the closure of consolidated businesses when the self - employed already intends to retire? We do. And we believe that providing continuity to these small businesses would provide an opportunity for particularly vulnerable groups in an unemployment situation. Does your department have any ideas for providing a solution for self - employed persons who have to take maternity leave, temporary incapacity or an accident at work? We do. [[Rialles.]] We will propose to you the creation of a programme on..., so that the self-employed can welcome him in these cases. With the motion, what will come, Counselor? You will see that you have an ally in our parliamentary group with whom you can resume your course. That is why I have already announced that we will promote the creation of a commission for entrepreneurs and self-employment in this Parliament. Let's get you guys to work, too. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.23.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vílchez. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.24.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for your intervention. I like that what I'm quoting... exactly, it's an entity, the CTAC, that's the one that gave it little to the study, with whom I've worked for eight years, and so the CTAC numbers know them very well, and I've even helped to make some of the studies, so... above all, in Girona province, where you also know very well and know that the surroundings of the autonomies are a circle, as close as possible, complicated, but that's important. Therefore, from all the extended hand that we can work for the autonomes, we will do it. The only thing is that, having so many autonomous programs, it's high time we didn't win the elections, that then we could apply everything..., and that we won them some other than what happens to us is that we don't have competition, as you very well said, because you've been talking about cooking and you know that we, with cooking and everything that has developed from the autonomous, can't do anything at all. Therefore, I am relieved of the criticism of the Government of the State, for what it does to... but I will degregate what we can do and what we cannot do. Actually, it doesn't have to be explained here, but everyone knows that Catalonia is a country with a long tradition and a strong entrepreneurial vocation, and above all, for what it does to entrepreneurial initiatives. Therefore, proactively in the company's joint venture for the impulse of new ideas. The change you've experienced in entrepreneurship lately is also important, isn't it? , and I have to do this, because of a business that was often needed – and in time of the crisis, when there were the tanks, and you said it, when the Persians got down, there were people who were forced to go to the business – for the first time we say that in the last year there began to be more autonomous because they wanted it, because they believed in the firm that an idea can be developed and that autonomy is important; therefore, with the firmness that those who learn it for a certain idea, and that want to render it, and not just for the opportunity of need, as there had been so far. There are a lot of entrepreneurs, and you know it very well, from the enterprise of the small company, the science-based one, the models that follow Silicon Valley, therefore, the start-ups, the social entrepreneurship, the corporate entrepreneurship, the entrepreneurial of cultural and creative industries, and also, why not say so, the theme of false autonomes, which has often also come out here and which we need to measure so that it is not so. But, in addition, to say that the relationship between business and traditional business is also important. Many traditional businesses have entrepreneurs around them, entrepreneurs who follow for a good idea, and entrepreneurs who do what we want to do, and it is to believe in an idea and to believe it firmly to develop it. That said, you were commenting on the data; you were also commenting on the data of Madrid – in fact, of Madrid, of other communities. By the way, in Catalonia we are the ones that increase the most as a percentage of autonomes – I think that's why we developed before, that we have a tradition of entrepreneurship–, and if 2016, this same month, we're at 545,257 autonomes, today, we're at 520,000. Therefore, an increase of 25,000 net autonomes for three years is important. This increase is growing affiliates, too, but you know it and you have said it very clearly: we have neither at the standard level nor at the labour level, nor financing, nor trading, because this regulation of the basic aspects of entrepreneurship and self-employment are state-owned. Therefore, I will be very glad that you can have an influence on the state government to change these issues, but what I can assure you is that when we finish this legislature, we can have full powers, we will develop a lot different. What we can do are active policies, and you said so. But also tell him that basic regulation is also state-owned. Therefore, we can't even design these things; we have management tasks through certain convenient transfers. Therefore, I believe that this must be made very clear: we cannot even design, we can manage convenient second transfers. And that's what we're doing wrong that in the last few days there's been a process of refocusing all the active policies, not just the autonomies, but all in general. And, in addition, tell him that the financing of all these programs that we can share management has been under 57_per_cent since the year 2012. So, we're left with the management of the little money we have to make. But, in addition, there is no competition in passive policies; therefore, in everything that you spoke of cotitzazione, nothing to do, absolutely nothing to do. So far, therefore, the Spanish State has fostered a model of low-value economy, much against what we do and what we want to do, but, more than that, it has penalized the whole issue of self-government. For example, many countries in Europe have a lower share than in the State, there are various ways of doing everything you were talking about; Germany, for example, is only paid according to the monthly minimum bill; here you have to do everything. Therefore, we are at his side to say that the locals have a difficult reality. What do we want? We would, therefore, like to say that he is working for a cooperation system that adapts to reality – in fact, I said to the question that I answered as to government – to a model of various enterprises, and that it is often complementary to other economic activities, which you know that the autonomies also often have. And important, that there has been the promotion of entrepreneurship with the assumption of risks, therefore, a clear promotion; a dignity of the autonomous work, not turning into prohibitive the social protection of this collection, as we have now; to expand the basis of the contribution of the conjunction of economic reality, and to enhance the creation of jobs in entrepreneurship. That's what we'd want and that's what we'd want, and I'm sure you will, too, and that, if we have any chance, we here, or you to touch there, we'll do it clearly. In fact, they have thirty-two Members; they could have a lot to do with it. The government is implementing measures, and we are implementing measures in what I was commenting on: in the management of the little we have, which we cannot even design. And what do we do? So, first of all, an integral program of empowerment and consolidation of autonomous work, with different measures, which I can then turn, if you want, that, as you know, go from the first autonomous ones, therefore, those who develop the idea, until it is already consolidated and in fact the follow-up, and because it is as well as possible, we carry it from the two departments, from the Department of Enterprise, so that they can be at the side of the enterprise and the Department of Work because they know how to workers they can have the same fears that they have the other workers, and we work in a coordinated way the two, not in parallel, but together. Specific financing measures for the enterprise projects of self-employed workers, which are often used as a guarantee for the financing of the project, for the installation on the market and then for consolidation; help because young people join programmes like the Youth Guarantee Programme... – who know that we are working very well and that the latest data say that Catalonia is the community that works best throughout the State, so I am proud of it, despite the fact that we can have difficulties after the way the central government is doing – so because young people from this programme are self-employed workers, a topic that does not happen in other communities; help the self-employed workers who contract young people also in programmes. Therefore, the promotion of self-occupation but also the promotion of second opportunities, coordinated with the Public Employment Service of Catalonia, both in the Department of Treball and in the Department of Enterprise, are priorities. Then, in any case, I'll take him down to help, program by program of everything we have. And tell him, as I said to the principle, that, the council of the autonomes, you know that it is not a matter that depends on us, on representativeness; you know that it is judicialized, representativeness; we rely on associations, as you said – CTAC, the associations of autonomes – because we have to decide how the council wants, because we believe that we have to do it in a concerted way and that the government does not have to decide it. But also, as I said, if we don't just agree, we'll decide just how we decided on corporate representation, so we can move forward. For now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.25.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.26.0	...wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word Mrs. Vílchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.28.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I didn't expect you to run out of time to answer on this subject, because if you talk to the most representative entities of self-employed workers or a self-employed person on foot, when you ask him what the Generalitat is doing for self-employed people, the answer is 'nothing'. [[Some applause.]] And, well, that's not exactly the case, but as in many issues, in many different areas, with the measures carried out by the Generalitat, there are plans where very few have access and are not sufficiently known. In this case, there is some training, as you mentioned, the 'Consolida't' programme, some advice, some guidance, which is indirect aid, which is good, but which is not enough at all. You say that you have no competence in the quotation, that from here nothing can be done. I have given you examples of Madrid, I have given you the example of Cantabria : 3,900_euros per year, Cantabria, 6,900_euros to help pay the fee. You say that we in Madrid have thirty-two– thirty-two– Members. We are going to take care, as I mentioned in the previous round, of taking measures to Congress. You have eight; you will support these measures, I suppose. The programme « Consolida't which I was commenting on I have to admit that it is a good training programme, which is an indirect aid, but training and..., well, yes, training for self-employed people is always welcome, they are made good courses, although perhaps this programme, which has not been a thing of their Government, but which has been implemented for years, deserves a rethink so that these courses maintain a standard of quality both of content and of those who deliver them, and perhaps speed up the payment of these courses, because in 2015 they were charging 2012-2013. I did not talk to him about measures that had to do with Enterprise, I was just talking to him about his consultancy, which has made him give us the reason that we thought, at the beginning of the legislature, that separating Work from Enterprise was not a good idea; because "Catalunya try, for example, is an advisory program that is also good but with many limitations. As I moved to the Enterprise Commission – I did it there too – it would be good to rethink all the programmes, and I will ask you to do the same, because I should not have to know that the entities that provide this service should finance the programmes that the Generalitat carries out. The same problem, as I mentioned, is that « Consolida't. Even if it is financed with European funds, they should have made a better forecast before putting them in place. He has commented on the aid to self-employed people under thirty years of age for recruitment; let us extend it, including to groups, for example, the most vulnerable, as he said in the previous round. We want, counselor, a red carpet for those who raise every day Catalonia, for those who are creating jobs at their own risk. Please note that the autonomous are especially numerous in sectors as important as, I told you, trade, hospitality, for the Catalan economy and deserve, I believe, better attention. You were talking about financing. If you do the exercise, like me, which I did a few days ago to ask you what your main problem is, one of the first answers is credit. If you do like me, I asked you if it's easy for you to access the funding lines of the Institut Català de Financi, so, I think, I think you're still laughing. Let us therefore be proactive and help to meet the needs for which social security is not currently available or the measures promoted by the State. Autonomous women have the right to be mothers in the manner they decide and the Administration has an obligation to protect them. That the decision to have a child is not penalized because of the lack of conciliation measures, the absence of measures..., policies to balance co-responsibility or the fear of having to leave the profession or close the business. With regard to the lack of competence, our group in Congress will continue to work to advance those measures. I hope, as I told you, that your group there will also support it. To work on the competences we have in Catalonia, count on this parliamentary group. In short, counsel, the lack of competence cannot be the excuse for everything. Let go of your excuses and devote yourself to rule. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.29.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vílchez. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.30.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As you say sometimes, but in everything, as I said to the beginning, to be able to work, to improve the situation of the citizens of Catalonia in all aspects, and in particular, as you refer, to women, who know that from the Department of Work, with the General Directorate of Politics of Equality we are by equality in the work and, therefore, to improve everything that is our competence, because if it is not our competence, we are first to say that it is not our competence and that we cannot enter it, therefore... But, in all ways, for which you gave, for example, with the theme of morosity that is speaking; in the Congress we entered, as we did, a... well, we entered into the Congress and did not know exactly what you were talking about. So, do me a favor to do it here, too, so do it there, as I said. You don't like that we're separated from the Company and we're separated from the Work, and I've explained it very well. The policies of the autonomies are neither Business nor Work, they are to coordinate, to coordinate all departments, and this Government, precisely, if one thing we have is that we are coordinating everything, we are working cooperatively and especially Business and Work, and I have explained it to my first intervention. But, in addition, we also have autonomously coordinated with Culture, with Teaching, with Agriculture, as it could not otherwise be, because there are autonomously in all spheres. Therefore, it arises from what is the world of work and we do it together, but it is very coordinated with Company. The "Consolidate't" program, supporting autonomous work, which is clearly from the Department of Work, has docked projects in 2015, continuously docking now, is open. At these times there are 630 people who have benefited from it, until today. The 2015 Start line is also addressed only to self-employed entrepreneurs and traders who are still entrepreneurs. This call is valid until September 30, 2016. It has a endowment of 22_million euros. It's developing and we're thinking about going on, so we're thinking about taking another call again... I talked to him earlier about the Youth Guarantee programs. There are from line A, which are self-employment aids, with 3_million euros of destination, from special help to self-employed workers and social economy entities contracted by other young people, therefore 2_million_i_mig of self-employed people. But, besides, we have, and you have talked about, programs through Action that support the private investor network. At these times two thousand registered investors, today. The Action Investment Forum, the Start-Up Catalonia, the Pla Esprint, where each... as I said, the two departments work together. In addition, there is also a distance for self-employed people with €500,000 in help in the Knowledge Industry programme. The Enterprise Network, where there have been a hundred entities. We've got four hundred support techs all over the territory, and they're going to reach thirty-thousand people and they're going to set up 3,600 small businesses from within. The Generality has practically allocated 5_million more euros to it, and could go one by one. As you see, there are many, many helpers, there are many places where the autonomies can be directed because the motivation of entrepreneurship for opportunity is a key point for our department. But if so do the other communities, as you said, how much more do we follow Catalonia than the rest of the communities and how does it materialize the idea and consolidate it in Catalonia is a 5.2, when to the other communities it has a 4.2? They must not work so badly neither the Generalitat nor the autonomes of Catalonia. Therefore, I agree with you that we need to improve, that we need to make more fears that it is highly important that entrepreneurship is a key point, that we do not speak of false autonomes, that here we also need to highlight it and say it in a principle, but it will certainly keep us at the side to move forward. As with the government, for us it is a priority, and if one point remains that of the council, and I have already said it and I have said it at the beginning: we are working because it is moving forward, we are working independently as much from the company as from Work as from any other department because the enterprise, as I say, the data show, in Catalonia is superior than in the rest of the Spanish State and that it remains in other places and, if not, it shows me with data, the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the initiation of the 2016-2017 school year]] [[300-00074/11]] The dotze point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the initiation of the school year 2016-2017, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all the members of the chamber and to the guests who are with us today. "Education engenders security, security engenders hope, hope engenders pau, says the Chinese philosopher Confuci. The course 2015-2016_has ended with demonstrations of the teacher who has seen the gout of his patience with promises that are not very clear if they come to completion. For Citizens, education is the most important pillar of our society, and that is why we want our own course to be that of complicated promises and that the students of Catalonia can have a quality education in the best conditions, which unfortunately does not happen today. We want the proper course to be that of security, that of hope and that of pau in the educational community. The course is over and the Department of Education has not approved the June. Now we'll see if he'll do his dues and approve in September or not. And by September, there are eight weeks left, Madam Counselor, so it is very urgent that you work hard to solve the problems. During the crisis, all the public workers saw our working conditions get worse and now, while the rest of Spain start to turn around, we see that everything is still the same here. For what he does to the teaching not all the autonomous communities did the same detail and during the period 2009-2015 Catalonia was the second autonomous community that more detailed in education, in concrete a 21.38_per_cent, as we can see in this table. ( The speaker showed some charts.) There are four autonomous communities that were retailed under the 10_per_cent– Rioja, Andalusia, Cantàbria and the Valencian Community – ; that is to say, Catalonia retailed more than twice as much as four autonomous communities, to which we have to add Extremadura, that it did not just retail anything but increased very slightly, a 0.45_per_cent, its investment in education. It is to say, that only surpasses us in detail in education Castella - la Manxa. If in this table we are the seconds in detail, in this other we are the seconds, starting at the bottom, for which it does to autonomous communities that are less dedicated to teaching; in concrete, a 17,4_per_cent, while we have to new autonomous communities– here we can see them – they are more than 20_per_cent of their presupposition to education. There is no doubt that governance is a priority, and the Government of the Generality does not have the teaching as its priority, as we have just proven with objective data. At the end of the day, we talked about a lot of teaching, and this Parliament approved fundamental aspects for the proper functioning of the education system, such as maintaining the right plants and professional facilities, and in particular the provision of 400 professionals for high-complexity centres, as well as 360 support technicians and an increase of 140 students to attend the inclusive school programme, and also ensuring the provision of support for students with economic needs. From Ciutadans we will be loving to ensure that this is complexi. It was also approved an absolutely essential point for the quality of the education system, which is to incorporate the coverage of first day and 1 September staff cuts into all schools in Catalonia. This point is fundamental, because now students can pass up to fifteen days without their teacher; not to say the weight that supposes that students can be up to two weeks without one or more assignments. How is this subject, Mrs. Ruiz? Is it compromised that it is named substitutes from '1 September and from the first day? If I really, as I hope, bet on the quality of the education system, I would like its answer to be affirmative. The truth is that the teaching unions are not optimistic about their commitment, and they have to say that with the excuse of "there is no money because the CUP has vetoed our assumptions, not complete. And I'm saying the CUP because the government just talked to them about what they're doing to the assumptions, so they can't blame the rest of the groups with this wrong-paying excuse. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Eulàlia, if I'm defending them; I didn't get it well; if it doesn't look good to me, "the UPC won't let us. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They only talked to you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.33.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.34.0	They only talked to you. I say that I personally do not like the CUP, it seems like a bad payer's excuse. I've looked at the teaching apartment, for what it does to the 2015 assumptions, and we've seen that there's a match of almost 1_million euros in high charges and more than a million in contingent personnel, that's to say, people in the house said, normally like the government party. We have, therefore, 1_million_i_mig of euros that they might be able to serve in such a way that you actually revert to the protagonists of the education system: the student and the teacher. I think the educational community in Catalonia would really appreciate it, Mrs. Ruiz. The teaching department's assumption is more than €4,000_million; the substitutions from September 1 cost 4.2_million, and if they are covered from the first day, 40_million, but at these 40_million we have to subtract those already dedicated to substitutions from the fifteen days. It's a lot of money, a sense of doubt, but if we compare it to the 341 million that is spent on public and subsidized communication means, it seems obvious that it can be done. I've said it before: governance is a priority. We hope that your presence at the head of the Department of Education will leave the learning priority. There is another issue that does not cost money and is related to substitutions and would be a substantial improvement, which is paralyzing the substitution pilot plan. This evidence has caused discomfort and dissatisfaction between the faculty that I had never seen in twenty years of professional practice. I don't doubt the good will of the project when it was formulated, but its practical inn has been an absolute weakness, and for this reason it seems relevant to ask for its withdrawal and that it is again presenting beautiful new. In fact, all this has already been approved by the plenary, and what I hope today is their commitment to do so, because it is not right for a government that is mouthing out to fulfill the popular mandates after not fulfilling a popular mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia, which is where the will of the Catalan people resides. Let's now go to another theme for the right beginning of the course, which is the theme of the barracks. According to the information from the course directory prepared for the department, we can see that the last few years we have a mean of 828 barracks each course. This medium so high means that it is a structural problem, that it does not depend solely on the crisis of demographic growth, even though this aspect can further complicate its situation. From the decade of the eighty-eighths the school population was reduced to touch the ends of the 20th century, and from the beginnings of the 21st century it began to grow again. At its lowest point, it was less than a million students, and now we're around 300,000. The past few years has grown a little, around twenty thousand students. Despite this, we see that the name of barracks is stable force and is kept even at the lowest moments of demographic growth. These more than three hundred midjana barracks don't speak well about school planning in Catalonia. Between the years 2003 and 2007 there was a strong migration, but it is not possible to carry the blame on this fact, because if this was the cause of the barracks before 2003 there would be very few and after 2007 too, which is not so. Finally, if we want to guarantee the good quality of the education system, it is essential to lower the rates. According to the data in the course file, the public sector has around 80,000 students per year over legal periods..., of which 76,585 are found a little over legal periods, but 2,776 are found a lot over legal periods. I suppose I'll have to say that they've reduced their respect for the previous course. And it's true. But they can't have 80,000 students over legal fees. So, in Ciutadans, we want to ensure a start of the course in the right conditions, with replacements from September 1st and from the first day, and without the pilot plan that so much discomfort has created between the teacher, and, above all, with students in decent conditions and appropriate conditions. We ask you, madame, to advise that the next course is that of security, that of hope and that of pau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.35.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Reply to the Teaching Councillor, Mrs Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.36.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, obviously... I'm telling you, I'm starting here, where you ended up: the proper course will be that of security, that of hope and that of pau. In fact, I think that in the system you educate the dick and hope are always present, because they are two basic elements to start educating. I, from little to little, will be explaining – as his intervention was about the course initiation – the different points. But I let 'em say one thing, because I think it's the second time that we compare ourselves to Extremadura, to say: 'Listen'm, it's that Extremadura was the community that was least detailed. And it's true. But I also let him say that here in Catalonia we are the third ones to pay and the onzen on disposable income, when Extremadura is the other way around, they are the least paid and the most paid. [[Some applause.]] Dr. Oriol Amat, who is not a specialist, and here we also have the vice president, and I don't want to pose..., but he gave me some data: in Catalonia productive citizenship is 42_per_cent; in Extremadura, 19_per_cent. Imagine, and I know you already know, the effort made by the citizens of Catalonia to pay for their basic services. But Extremadura is the penultimate to pay and the third to pay. Therefore, we would already like, in Catalonia, during all these years, to be like Extremadura. They don't ask to be better anymore. At least you're the same. I assure you, we would not have gone through what we have to go through. But let's start with the objectives set by the government for this very course. Let 'print introduce a subject of educational quality. Because our education system, as you see these past days and in all the days that you are doing, is immersed in an educational transformation thanks to the great work and the great involvement of the centers, but also thanks to a new organizational system that is inspired by European educational success models, such as centre autonomy, the education project, pedagogical leadership and evaluation for better and better orientation. How do I know that in these things we will surely agree, and now you are trying to agree, perhaps, a government in the Spanish State, which we would ask them to pray, as we all pray, for the withdrawal of the LOMCE, because it has worrying elements of educational involvement, because they do lay the assessment to make a return and to condition the future of a student, and more is in danger of the prestige of our professional formation. For the very course, in this country, in Catalonia, we have thought of measures focused on students and centres, centered on teachers and centered on the system. I think I could answer a lot of the things you asked us about with that. If we think about the student and the centers, we want to focus on the educational needs of those students who need it most. So what we're doing is an adventure in designing inclusive school for the inclusive system and lowering the rates of the most complex centers. Then, in any case, I'll talk to him about the rates, but if in one place it's essential to lower the rates, and this is a measure that's coming up for this coming course, it's in the most complex centers. As you said, the average rate in Catalonia is not above legal limits. At the 2010-2011 course it was 23.02, talking about public centers, and in 2015-2016 it is 22.41. But I'm telling you now that apart from this, the lowest of the last six years, for the very next course this P3 ratio in public centers will still be lower. We are also still betting on the hourly expansion or the six hour where it is most necessary for educational contexts, but also for a personalized school support for those students who need it. Because the best pedagogical practices teach us that it is not a question of the student who does not find himself putting more hours, because he will have even more problems, but give him the additional support he needs to be able to overcome that lack and be able to face the rest of the teaching hours with total confidence and security. There's also a new advent in the feeding grant system. They know we've been talking about a new system that takes the variable tram and goes on betting for guaranteed and 100_per_cent scholarships. Also a job with local administrations in the network through socio-educational programs, such as educational plans around, that give continuity and educational coherence to all the educational activity that the assemblies and local entities do. Or the school promotion of the Gypsy people, where we also have a repte because the Gypsy people are successfully educated. Or an important novelty, such as the specific formatary itineraries in that offer of post-compulsory studies with students with special educational needs, because they can have a good transition to the world of work. You too, in fact, have had to give an answer to a democratic reality that obviously does not satisfy, I think, none of this room, because in Catalonia the birth rate drops worryingly. This has different causes that we don't have to analyze here, but take that into account. The crisis is one. Many families cannot expect to have more children because of the economic situation they are experiencing, but also because we live in a country where reconciliation or birth policies are still not well present. The davalada of P3..., and the tendency is to continue decreasing. And that worries us. And the growth of ESO is maintained for three years, and then decreases. These data tell them precisely for the theme to which you refer to the constructions. It's true that this country hasn't just started the programming issue, and that's exactly why we need to be very curious at the time of programming. We have P3s that don't stop downloading and a birth that doesn't stop downloading, and an ESO that increases, but unfortunately only increases for three years. We find ourselves with a problem that I think they already know, and it is that at the time of economic expansion, it is true, many times since the Socialist Party, schools were inaugurated every fifteen days. They were inaugurated, yes, but the mortgage will last until 2037. Therefore, at these times, in these later years, which have followed great economic restrictions, we have found ourselves with the mortgages of many of the centers that were built, that have not been paid and that require this Generality, and this Government, and those who come forward, to continue paying them until 2037. And I'm saying that because just what we need to be very curios is time to plan. We will make those institutes and schools where necessary, taking into account not only the forecast of these first three years, but the evolution of the last gods. Among other things, because what we want is to invest public resources in educational care, not in centers, or in works, or in everything, let's say so, that after that they are not needed and that they continue to mortgage future generations for many years. The coming course begins, or continues, goes, or expands, a pilot test that for the small people has been very interesting, only took place in seven centres, the coming course is done in sixty-four more, that is to be able to spend the last part of the first cycle of children's education, P1 and P2, in centres in rural school areas or in centres of the municipalities, places where they cannot afford to have a class of infants because they have a lot of children, but it is concluded with an agreement with the assembly in our educational centres. The second pot is the teacher. I insist: surely, if we were the third ones to pay, the same way that we are the third ones to pay, we could return all those economic salaries to the faculty in the measure that we would all like. Our teachers came back from the return of the payments, the same way they do the rest of you will work from the Generalitat de Catalunya. But we're also talking, because you've also talked about educational quality issues for what you do at the faculty. And here I give you the answer to that compromise you asked me for. Yes, the next course will start with more teachers, with more staff – we said, 800; it will start with the supports of inclusive school, 360, and it will start with the additional staff to the centres of maximum complexity, 140. These will be the keys to the beginning of the coming course. But I let go of one thing: all these petitions that you made me ugly, and I also introduced the substitutions, they were just the ones that were reflected, it was our compromise, on the assumptions that this Parliament decided not to pull forward. I just... make it an element. You said, "Listen to me, they didn't want to talk to anyone else. I believe that, precisely out of respect for this parliamentary chamber, the Government has done what it has done is to bring the assumptions to this Parliament and put itself at the disposal of all of you through all the mechanisms that this chamber has in order to be able to speak to it. It couldn't have been that way, but don't say we didn't want to talk, but we just brought them in so we could talk about it. But, well, despite this, we have made a great effort to bring resources from other places, precisely because the priority of this government is also education, to guarantee these 800 teachers, these 360 inclusive education supports and these 140 staff in the most complex centers. And respect the substitutions, tell him that this is our compromise and that was reflected in the assumptions; but unfortunately, some assumptions that have not been processed. What we have communicated to all directions is that we will work on it because in the 2017 pressupost this comes back even wider and we will not wait to finish the course. But let him say that it is not certain that replacements are done in fifteen days, because there are many – many – the forecasts in which they are either from the first day or from the earthquake. Because schools of fewer than two lines, children's guardians, more than two consecutive falls, maternity, adoption or foster care, special education centres, all centres of maximum complexity, rural school areas, all these, already have the replacements from the first day. There are replacements from the earthquake in all that are tutors, English teachers, teachers of music and physical education. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, it is not certain that all substitutions are made from the fifteenth day. On the second part, I will explain to you, what you do to the Order to Provide Work Places..., and to the replacements and other forecasts we have for the coming course. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Sierra."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. I'm very glad, Counselor, that you think it'll be the course of the pau. Because, precisely, yesterday there was no shortage, the teachers waiting for their award, and it was a shameful moment..., that it was necessary to withdraw the list of awards, with the injury for many – many – people, twelve all of them. To me, the truth is that I am ashamed that they still pass the "Spanish steals from us, and precisely the theme of Extremadura. I invite you, Mr. Amat, Mr. Junqueras and Mr. Meritxell... since you have seen Extremadura so well, you leave your places here in the Parliament of Catalonia and vagina to Extremadura, to live there. For example, at my father's village, people have to rotate the people's nether services for the long-lived weather they have. How can you say he's better off in Extremadura than here? And if that's true, I invite them to go to Extremadura to live there in the sea of good. As far as the issue of finance is concerned, Mr Junqueras has advised him. I have nothing more to say. Just looking at the debate Mr. Junqueras had with Mr. Borrell, and... without comment, all the words are left. Now let's get to the subject of education. You said, "Extremadura, Spain, steals from us. But it turns out that this financing system, which is obviously very bad, when the Republican Left of Catalonia agreed they said it was the best financing system possible for Catalonia! The Republican Leftlords, and the lords, and now it turns out it's terrible! Later, Country..., Balears and Madrid have, whether or not they do, the same financing system with the same heaviness, and it turns out they have spread the half in education that in Catalonia. What's going on? That the Balears are also stealing from us, Mrs Meritxell Ruiz? Then we talked about it last week, so much so that you don't have enough professionals to attend inclusive school. The details in Catalonia have been brutal on this subject, and there are not enough professionals to answer all the requests. Then you talked about the media, about the media, but you didn't talk about the media, you have to talk about every case. I said to him: 80,000 students in Catalonia for more than one reason. Just P3, which says there's a demográfica davalada. So it turns out that we have 17,645 students in classrooms of 26 or 27 students and 318 in classrooms of 28 students. I'm still lucky you dropped it on Christmas Eve. After that, primary education has 32,482 students in classrooms of 26 or 27 and 1,911 in classrooms of more than 28 students. And at secondary school we have 155,461... no, excuse me, 26,428 students in classrooms of 31, 32 or 33, and 547 in classrooms with 34 students or more: 80,000 students in Catalonia with thanks for the legality. It doesn't seem acceptable to me. And on the subject of barracks, I insist, lack of planning. And you say, "No, now the high school will only be three years. We have been seeing this throughout the course, throughout the legislature to the Commission of Education: institutes and more institutes that cannot accommodate students, students who must go to other towns. And the solution? Barracks. We now have, at the course 2015-2016, 995 barracots. What are they going to do with these barracks? Does it seem good that we're still with this middle class, despite this Christmas fall? I look forward to an answer, and we hope that the next course and students will be in legal periods and in worthy institutes and colleges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.39.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam MP, you always make personal references, I will try not to make them. I have not said that it is better to Extremadura than here, and that we must all leave; but know that you are not the only one that your parents have come from outside to seek a better life in Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] There are so many of us in this hemicicle that our parents have come here to find a better life. The only one we've put on the table is some data. That is to say, Extremadura, with a percentage of productive citizens of 19_per_cent; Catalonia, with a percentage of 42_per_cent. Obviously, that means there's a lot more to it than here, and that means here they pay a lot more taxes. I didn't say anything more than that. Besides, I've understood so far..., if you may have changed your position slowly, but until now you would say that the financing that Catalonia had was unfair. So, it's just, it's unfair, and it's unfair when you pose in relation to other autonomous communities like this case. But I didn't want, in any case – among other things, because my peers are also of one's own – to go against the local community. [[Some applause.]] I didn't say, I just said there are others who get more than they pay. But let us go – forgive – to the one who touches us in this inquiry. You've done it – and you have all the right to do it, huh? – a look in the back. What we're trying to do is look forward. You asked me about my next class. I said to him: "Listen to me, the next course will start with more teachers, with more support from inclusive school and with more support from centres of maximum complexity. And I understand that this is exactly what you came to ask of us, the compromise that you came to expose us and the compromise that we take. Every student has a place, every student in this country has a place, there is no student who has to move, if he doesn't want to, out of his village. And another theme, that of constructions, that what we're doing is... we found ourselves with a thousand barracks when we got there, and that's it, we found a thousand barracks more a system, so, difficult, in difficult economic situations, and what we've been doing is prioritizing the education of students and reducing the centers that are totally in barracks. He also spoke of teaching and replacements and the work provision decree, a decree that you very much criticize. I think it's worth knowing European capdavant countries. Sometimes, as long as we put ourselves in the mouth, all of us, Finland, look at how they provide work places in this country, and therefore we also see where, so we have to go. The decree..., the main objective is to adapt the teams, to have teams coordinated to give response to an educational project that sorts out the educational community. But that doesn't only have the advantage for this, for this issue, but it does have the advantage for the same dozen. There are some facts that I think we need to give him, I think he needs to know precisely why I am left with the tranquillity that these decrees and this substitution or prediction of places of work and substitutions also have benefits, especially for the faculty. Why do you know how many offices there were in the past year? The office destinations – for those who are not in the sector – are those assignments..., he forgives, those people who go to the place that they have not asked for. The 10-11 course had 1,000 people who were navigating in places that had not been asked, the past year was 42, 0.5_percent of the total. [[Some applause.]] It's good... – and this I think we'll share – is it good or not that the people in the community have more ability and that they don't have so many center changes? I'm sure you and I agree on that. So these things, these decrees, have also been allowed. We have gone from 3,100 to 7,269 to the same center, the past course, which was able to stay in the same center. Therefore, in the provisional decree, I do not tell you that there are no things to be reviewed, but I tell you – and I honestly say this – that you have positive elements that would be worth it that, among all of you, we return to talk, not only for the better quality of the system, but also for the better working conditions. From here, it is true, there has been a computer error in the last few days, we have detected it, it has been solved, and now what we are doing is making the new resolution again, precisely so as not to harm all those people, who have made a mistake, and who should individually submit all their complaints. But, I'm telling you, there's no right to have been violated, but it's a computer error. It is true that it has caused, therefore, that we are ill-advised to make the resolution again; but in no case will there be any delay in when the assignments are to be made nor, obviously, of course, of the end of the course. All right, all right, Time was running out, Congresswoman. It's true, at the plenary we talked a lot about education. I think it's important that we talk a lot about education, but I honestly believe that we can look forward with hope, that we can look forward with all the certainty that this course will start much better than we have finished, among other things, because, for the first time, Catalonia has some more resources than it has unfortunately been able to put at the disposal of the assumptions, but like what it is that you want us to improve the quality of our work because the coming course has some assumptions that can gather all the economic effort that our citizens do. Thank you, Madam President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the creation of administrative, fiscal and financial structures]] [[300-00080/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the creation of administrative, fiscal and financial structures presented by the People's Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. Josep Enric Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.42.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, deputy president, a government had never accumulated so many failures in a short time. [[Widow's remorse.]] Weak to weak until the final victory. Is this your maximum? I suppose some of you are thinking about that. But the reality shows that you were going to history as the government of the fracàs in fracàs until the final defeat. The theme behind today's inquiry is the latest example of what I'm saying: we wanted to set it up, precisely, to ask for a change of course, a new full of route that encloses all Catalans, without exclusion, to all those who want to live in poverty on this earth. I am talking about the erratic objective of the separation process and the damaging full route that the Catalan society is going through to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain. The last chapter of this story already knows what it is: that of the famous structures of the state. The Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional various provisions of the Law of fiscal, financial and administrative measures, in order to be outside the sphere of competition of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and invade competitions of the State. But before we get into the matter, let's make a little memory, that sometimes some people lose it easily. Who are the priors? The Government introduced the Tax and Finance Bill 2015 in the later legislature. You, who was already a member of the Government, presented in the proceedings six papers, which were kept alive in the opinion of the draft law, which claimed the construction of the names "state structures". The Catalan People's Party, using the Rules of Procedure, requested an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees because we had doubts about the statutoriness and constitutionality of those statements. We're going to be harshly criticized. The opinion was unanimous – unanimous. The poster was Councilman Joan Ridao, exporter of Republican Esquerra to Congress, and no doubt, in this case. He declared that the state structures that Esquerra Republicana wanted to incorporate into the law in excess of the powers that the Catalonian State of Autonomy attaches to the State, and that the exclusive powers of the State are being introduced. Esquerra had to give up his papers, and he took them on his own to adapt them and make fun of the council's opinion. How did he do it? Very easy: replacing there on the day we present a draft law to approve master plans. And they thought with this maneuver they had it all figured out. But, as you know, the name doesn't do the thing, and the Spanish Government filed an appeal of unconstitutionality, according to the criteria laid down for the same Council of State Guarantees of the Generality of Catalonia, before the Constitutional Court, to challenge these provisions. It's convenient to make memories to hear where we are. As I said before, last week the court settled the appeal and annulled the state structures that Convergence and Esquerra incorporated into the law. What did the court say? In short, that the state structures that claim to assume competencies that do not correspond to it cannot be done; the contrary of what you affirm every day at the conjunction of the people. Who was the surprising reaction of the Government of the Generality before this? Therefore, the government's minor response has been to say – practically literally – that the court's judgment does not affect the state structures and that the government continues to work intensively to develop the process of breaking up the Catalan society and separating the rest of Spain. This, Mr. Junqueras, is not serious and this is not a waste. And I say so solemnly. This attitude, that of this government, a democratic government, supposedly, in the 21st century, is intolerable. This government is perverting the essence of democracy itself, as we know it. They are bringing us to the despotism of costumes and to the stigmatization of those who think differently, of those who think differently. It still suggests that they would continue with their process, that they would ignore the court's ruling, that they would jump and twist the state of law behind their party and private interests, because, let's not be fooled, we are ahead of a capital scam, which prefaces a fashioned ideology to the true spirit of democracy. We are ahead of the tyranny of a narrow mind-set, where only dreams of a few are concerned. We are in front of the tyranny of a minority, I would say even more: we find ourselves in front of the totality of power of an elite accustomed to operate without delay, to squander the common good; if, therefore, in order to try to satisfy this set of political and economic power they must climb the legal framework – and, therefore, the rights and freedoms of all – they will do so without doubt. They've already proved it. In fact, they already do it without any shame, without any hindrances or impediments, reversing morale and passing the box as a victim, and the box as a victim. Mr. Vice President, Catalonia only needs one thing, only one, and you give it to it every day. Catalonia needs one thing: to recover the sign, the height of sight and the sense of democracy that you have so cunningly been corrupt during these past years. And I would especially like to highlight the totalitarian aspect of the act of violation of the law, which you call and preach as disobedience. If you continue along this path, the path of the challenge to democratic legality, you have lost all political and democratic legitimacy, you will destroy the ethical dimension of politics and turn this Parliament into an instrument to serve your party and private interests, nothing to see with the defense of the general interest and the common good that must always guide the political action of all of us, even so it should be. I remembered that when a ruler puts the law under his feet, the governors end up putting his feet on whom he rules. Let us not forget that tyranny consists, precisely, that the ruler does not subdue himself to the justice of the law; in change, democracy consists in the fact that the law does not subdue itself to the whim of the ruler, which is what you do. Let's not forget that there was no popular democracy after the screen, after the fall of the screen, where the people were oppressed by the law of the party. This exists, it existed, we've known it. There are now constitutional democracies, where the people enjoy the freedom of the constitutional law, the democratic law. And what you want to do is to plunge Catalonia into a total democracy that excites the egoism and envy of the people with the populist laws that the Constitutional Court has now suspected. Mr. Vice-President, correct me. The question has as its object to ask you to rectify, that you do not carry Catalonia on this path. You are the one who stands alone in this government of disproposals and returns to the path of respect for democracy and respect for plurality. He asks you to use today solemnly this rostrum, this Faristol, now when you fight, to make an act of recognition of the truth: tell the truth, stop deceiving the Catalans; finish today with this massive deception; declare on behalf of the Government the firm will not to skip the rules of play of democracy; return ethics to politics, and open a new stage, a stage of enlightenment and hope in Catalonia, where coexistence and harmony begin over division and confrontation. Thank you, Madam President; ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.43.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Millo. The words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.44.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission, allow me to begin my intervention by referring to another Member who has asked us to leave our country. No, no one wants to leave, no one... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, listen, especially no one, no one, no one has to tell any other city in this country than I left. So, let's see if this Parliament gets a little seny back. [[Some applause.]] Now that I begin my reply to his intervention, to his inquiry, reminding him that, beyond the process of independence and beyond the structures of the state, which is the monotheme of his parliamentary group, there are other things on which he could ask the Councillor of Economy and History of this Government and of this country. I'm telling you this because if one day I find that he lacks fears about whom to ask, I remember that we could talk about economy, that there's not only the one topic that you can talk about. Second... third point, and second reflection respects his intervention. I understand that you are perfectly aware that everything you have said can be applied to you and to your political party. You go here and talk about twisting the state of law, you, that you are a member of a political party that has a minister of the Interior who is dedicated to conspiracy and building false evidence, raising false witnesses, asking that those responsible for persecuting the fraud stop chasing the fraud they should be chasing and inventing the fraud that doesn't exist to persecute him? [[Some applause.]] Really? Are you really talking about twisting the state of law, you being a member of a political party that has a minister of the Interior who does this and who ensures that the president of the government is not fully aware? Don't you know him or don't you know him, Mr. Millo? If you don't know, the Minister of the Interior, more than twisting the state of law, more than that, is a compulsive lie, too? Is it also a lie to respect the president of the government who appoints him himself? And if so, the president of the government who appointed him and who knows he's lying about himself, doesn't he dismiss him? And you're talking about twisting the state of law? And you're talking about tyranny? Really? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] As I was saying... yes, I understand that they're covers of this and much more; they've shown it to the length of the story in a leftover way. [[Some applause.]] Fourth general reflection and third connected to you in person. As St. Augustine said – I know you will appreciate the reference – if we bring justice to governments, to what is it converted if not to a large-scale band of thieves? So, listen, you have a lot of company in your game, a lot of people, accused, accused and convicted... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Many, many, yes; accused, accused... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. You can deny it as much as you want, but public opinion knows it. There are hundreds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.45.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.46.0	There's a hundred of them. And in any case, they make use of the replica turn, it's no fun. I listen to them when you speak; you could do the exercise of listening again. Prove it. They're... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Albiol, take a test: be quiet and escorted. [[Widow's remorse.]] You who have hundreds – hundreds – of defendants, accused of all kinds, in cases of corruption, you who have practiced what is Agustí calling the practices of the gangs of thieves on a large scale, you have to come here to teach us all lessons? And you have to talk to us about vested interests, when the president of the Constitutional Court, appointed on the proposal of the People's Party, is the party that proposes and pays the quota of the political party that poses the president of the Constitutional Court? Is this the idea of separation of powers between justice and execution? In any case, it is evident to the eyes of many citizens of this country that the Constitutional Court is a politicized court. And to the extent that it's politicized for years and years and years, they end up being a political court, a third-instance legislative chamber. The institutions of the State have converted – all of them, especially those that are encapsulated for their party – this organ, have converted the Constitutional Court, into an absolutely discredited – discredited organ, from the whole process of studying the constitutionality appeal on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia to all the more recent character decisions that it has taken in this court; a court that does not act following the good practices that should characterize this group of institutions in the context of Western countries, but converts any decision of this Parliament into an immediate presumption of unconstitutionality. And, of proofs, we have many, recent ones, and of which we are..., there are no victims– you who spoke of victims and botxins– many citizens of these countries. When you prevent, through a court of law, the name of which I have just referred, for example, the application of a tax on the production of nuclear power. Or when you are unable to apply a tax on the provision of quotas for providers of electronic communications services. Or when you are unable to tax empty floors, or tax credit claims, which should be used precisely to place more resources at the disposal of most of the citizens of this country. Or when they do it about other issues that they have nothing to do with the tax area; when they do it, for example, to prevent us from helping the most vulnerable people affected in situations of housing and energy emergencies. Or when they do, for example, to prevent the effective application of the Law of equality between men and women. Therefore, the obsession is not concentrated only in the economic sphere or in the context of the structures of which these citizens, through a rather explicit parliamentary majority, have decided that they want to equip, but in all spheres. In any case, since you were particularly interested in, I understand, or this was the excuse, the last sentence of the Constitutional Court, it must be made clear that this sentence does not hinder, nor does this Government's determination to deploy the structures to prepare this country for the mandate that the people of Catalonia, the citizens of Catalonia, so sovereignly, have entrusted to us on 27 September; neither does it hinder nor slow down. The deployment of these structures, which are precisely designed to equip citizens with the tools they need to protect their interests, their public services, etc., is the objective of this Government, because this Government has as its objective to serve the interests of the citizen, to help people and especially to help those who are in a more vulnerable situation. One of the pillars to be able to face this mandate is to lay the foundations, obviously, of a hysenda, yes, of course. And the government is working hard on it, yes. And, if that's the surprise, I don't think most of the members of this chamber are surprised. This Parliament is moving forward in the joint proposal for the proposal of the Catalan tax administration law to regulate the history of the future. And, like you, often, more often than you would like, you are obliged to recognize, we are a responsible government, a responsible government with citizenship, that will never question legal certainty, as does your government in so many areas – renewable energies, etc. A responsible government with families, with the needs of families and their members for whom we do everything we do, and all that is in our hands to help them, and much more than we would do if, obviously, we don't find each day with all the sticks in the wheels that many, uniquely you and the party you represent, seek to pose. A responsible government with the enterprises, the entrepreneurs, the workers, that it wants to be able to develop its activity creating the most favorable environment possible, placing the emphasis on the development of strategic logistic infrastructures, like the Mediterranean Corridor, that its government prevents, the ports, the airports, or putting the resources to search, the innovation, the internationalization of our enterprises the result of which is endorsed by the recognizable figures for everyone: growth of our economy, growth of our exports, growth of our exports especially in the areas of the highest value added. But, above all, a democratic government that defends the will of the citizenry expressed in the ballot box, that accepts the public debate – it is obvious – that it will not become entangled, that does not store the head under the wing before the problems and the reptes of the society. And until now the government of his party, the government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, did not just want to know about the will of the majority of the people of Catalonia, but it has fought it so poorly – it is to say, as crudely – as it has been possible, and so prove, and it is easy to listen to it. So, if you haven't had a chance to listen to him, you have no doubt that when this inquiry is over I will do my best to get him a link in what you can hear his Interior Minister say everything you say; if that was the case, huh? If he heard it, then it is inexplicable that he made the intervention he made.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.47.0	Vice President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.48.0	So I reserve the rest of the considerations that I wanted to make now, in this first intervention, for the second intervention, which I am sure will be very rich for the intervention that you will make now. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.49.0	There's the word Mr. Millo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.50.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, I didn't see him at all today; he resorted to the fact that the best defense is an attack. Don't be offended if some tell you to leave Catalonia, don't be offended; we are told every day for the street because of what you do in Catalonia [[some applause]] Every day they tell us about it on the street; don't be offended because they tell you that. And don't come here either trying to get me into the provocation, because I won't do it; I won't talk to you about Constables of Esquerra Republicana smugglers who have been in prison, I won't talk about it, I didn't come to talk about it. [[Some applause.]] I have asked him about economics, about finance, about everything else. What's going on, I'm more interested in talking to advisors who approve assumptions; with those who don't have the capacity to approve, I have little to talk about. Mr. Vice President, abandon Matrix. You're still uncorrected. Dedicated to managing the more than two-hundred competitions they have. As much as I saw him very accurately in his speech today – he did not mention the word "independence at any time" – but... do they not realize that all his action is wrapped in a magical thought closer to Matrix than to the real world? Don't they know that you live in the great lie, that you drag all the Catalans, and that you pretend that all the Catalan society lives in this great lie? It's his particular veil of ignorance, the veil of the stellate, Mr. Junqueras. Why doesn't the stellate let them see the reality that Catalonia is? The Constitutional Court, as I said before, has made it very clear that the state structures cannot be carried forward, and you are here today, wrong as it is, to say the same. They've been told that their full route doesn't have a viable life, that their state structures, the crown jewel, doesn't have a viable life. His full route today is dumb paper, it's a big lie more, and you don't want to recognize it. And before that, what alternative do you have? Could they do anything different than what they're doing? And so much so! They could manage one of the regions, in European sense, more dynamic with civil society, stronger and better prepared business fabric from all over Europe; they could do that. It's time for the Catalan government to be on the rise of its own veins, of its civil society. Don't do that, you guys. But, above all, you have to manage a territory that counts on the major powers that a region, in the European sense, can have from all of the Union. You, who know Europe, know perfectly well that you will hardly find any other autonomy as great and with as much self-government as Catalonia has. We have hundreds of competitions in a deeply decentralized state. They think that since the beginning of democracy there have been more than two hundred transfers. Having made the generality's literary similitude it could hold"two-hundred competitions in search of a government. Allow'mun consell, or a petition. Instead of insisting on a career without leaving, they do something productive for Catalonia and for Catalans. Instead of dedicating itself to inventing own tax agencies, try to lower taxes to the Catalans, who by their fault are the Spaniards we pay the most. Instead of creating state-of-energy structures, they dedicate all their energies to making economic reforms to create occupation. Instead of making state infrastructure, they make the fourth belt and complete the communication infrastructure that Catalonia needs. Instead of empowering diplomats and foreign councils, it is dedicated to ceasing to be at the top of the investment in Catalan social policies. And instead of creating weather services in the summer, it's dedicated to managing and not heating the environment any more. Because so far you, those who promised us to take us to Ithaca, have ended up in Matrix; we have seen it clearly. The ship's master, who promised to take us to utopia, has ended exile, and they have left Catalonia with no full route to take us on the way to recovery. Today you woke up to the zero kilometre: zero politics, zero reforms, zero stability, zero credibility, and, worst of all, you have condemned us to the Catalans to return to the exit box; four years lost to the Catalans. The Catalans, Mr Junqueras, we deserve a government that tells us the truth, and you don't tell the truth to the Catalans, and this great lie is what I wanted to denounce with this inquiry today. We don't need a government led by someone who didn't even run for office, and with a game that no longer exists, and with a project broken and failed, coming to separatism and the far left. We need to recover a project that represents all Catalans, without exclusions – you are more likely than half the Catalans in your project; it is not serious, it is not responsible – in which the coexistence and social cohesion that you are carrying, a government that touches from a few to the ground, centered on reality, prevails. But that will only be possible, Counselor, Vice President, if the Government bets on a change, a change of course, a change of course that I have asked for and that you today, for which you have said, seem to be strongly denying. And I just told him that, I assure you, if the government doesn't want to change, the Catalans will end up changing this government. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.51.0	Thank you, Mr. Millo. [[Greetings.]] I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.52.0	Bon dia another time. Let's start as you started. Mr. Millo, I've seen him very uncomfortable and turning the attack into the best of his defenses. You..., I'll try to talk about other issues now, because it seems to me that they are much more relevant and much more interested in the city than their monoobsession and their traditional monotheme. But, still, it's hard to resist the storm. You talk about lying and you talk about lowering taxes. His government ended..., three weeks ago the president of the Spanish government came to Barcelona and said: "We're going to lower taxes, and yesterday announced that taxes would increase by 6,000 million euros, and it's at least – at least – the fourth time. [[Funnel veils]] But let me talk! But what a mania they have, not to let talk! But...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.53.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.54.0	But how the genomics comes out! But...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.55.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.56.0	Calm – calm, calm. [[Greetings.]] Deixin... Deixin – deixin –, when you talk, I'm very quiet, and it's very... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.57.0	Please, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.58.0	I'd ask you to add half a minute, because, of course, if... listen, when you talk, there are things that I don't like, but I'm quiet and I'm respectful; so you can also do the same exercise. It won't be that hard – it won't be that hard. So, you're talking about lying to us, you're talking about lowering taxes, when you, for the fourth time, ran for a few elections, said they'd lower them and immediately after winning them, and in some cases, all of them? Are you talking about responsibility when you approve of a presumption that it diverts 8,000_million from the deficit foreseen for the European Union? Really? Really? Really? So, let's focus... I already know that you feel more comfortable talking about the monotheme, because it's the only one you can talk about. But then, as I said to myself, "Look at your eyes, listen, look at your eyes. The growth of the Catalan economy of the past year, a 3.4; twice as much as the growth of the middle of the European Union and more than twice as much as the middle of the euro area. Yes, let's look at our views and see that there are many things that, fortunately, this society and this economy, with the sure help that modest and perhaps, from its point of view, do not exist, but in some way valuable, from this government, therefore, the economy of this country grows. It grows the economy of this country and, moreover, it grows much faster than the economies of our environment do, but it grows much faster than our deficit and, therefore, in real positive terms, it differs, unfortunately, from many other economies of our environment than we would like to see it grow much faster than its deficit. Because we never want to compare ourselves to those things that aren't going so well, we want to compare ourselves to those things that are going better, and our goal and our desire would be that everyone else would get better, unlike what we often perceive in the interrogations of some group, and singularly – let me say – of yours. So, if we talk about economics, and you were inviting us to talk about how our economy behaves in relation to our lives– and, I insist, I leave it for you the monotheme, the monoobsessio–, if we look at how our economy behaves, I hinted at it a while ago, not only our GDP grows, but our GDP continues to grow: a 1.8 in the first quarter of this year; most likely, with better behavior in the second and third quarters of this year, perhaps over 3_percent – so much bo– at the end of this year, even though our forecast was a forecast..., it was and continues to be a moderate, very weighted forecast, of 2.9; so much bo is clearly over 3. With some export data that is much better than the average of our economy – much better. And, among these exports, there are much better ones associated with products of higher value added– 10,5_per_cent, for example, of growing our exports in the telecommunications sectors. So, yes, Mr. Millo, this country, this people, the people of this country, even though you know it hard, even though you do everything you can so that you don't go like this, work, produce, invest, grow, dare foreign investment... Every year, the foreign investment record, every year; last year, more than 5,500_million euros of foreign investment. And, for what it does to imports, they are also always an economic data relevant, especially a large part of them centered on products, on equipment benefits, and, therefore, with many good expectations of future growth. And despite all the uncertainties that Brexit imposes on us or that it imposes on us the inability of its party to form government, despite all the pressure that it exerts around it, let's say, and perhaps condemn us for the third time to some elections – the president of its government said yesterday that "on November 27th – as you hardly do, this country is becoming and is going to be. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.59.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Asking the Government about energy policy]] [[300-00077/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on energy policy presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.60.0	Mr Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members, Deputies, Catalonia is no different from the rest of the planet. Ours..., the prosperity of the country at the time of 2050 has to stand – I think we all know it – in a different economic model, don't we? , which is more efficient in the use of resources, much more cautious at the time of generating negative externalities, going to a circular economy... And to do all this, the transformation of the energy system is key; it is key to ensuring a low carbon economy. It is also a great opportunity to consolidate economic recovery, it is also a great opportunity for employment and social welfare. The challenges, a sense of doubt, are to have an efficient economy, a net energy system and prosperity that benefits everyone in an inclusive way – I'm talking about poor energy issues, too. We need to act already, in the short term, thinking of Catalonia and Spain that we want to be in the middle and long term; also the Europe that we want in those terms. Catalonia has to face for need, but also in terms of opportunity, an energetic transition. This is a job that needs a long-term visit, with measurable horizons– 2030, 2050, 2025... – and, above all, a mostly shared visit for society and its political representatives, which serves to gain coherence in all actions. We think we're wearing a lost legislature here and in the Spanish State. There has been no mention of the challenges and priorities in energy policy, and above all it has not been sought, we believe, neither consensus nor coherence in decisions. At the state level, the only criterion has been to reduce the electricity tariff deficit. Let's say, in the past, that this deficiency at the level of the State we will have to audit to know its causes, that surely they are not in the arguments that the current Government of the State serves. I turn around: reducing the deficit at the cost of legal certainty, at the cost of transparency, regulatory stability, the independence of regulators, and the total paralysis of the investments we need to move towards a new energy model. It has also taken precedence to maintain the recaptancy of the State. The power issue has been pushed forward and not the one that measures consumption, which has caused high prices that facilitate the relocation of businesses, too. And the counselor can say to me, "Home, and that's why you tell me, if it's not my responsibility? Home, I say this because its predecessors, the predecessors of the Democrat and the Democrats – in singular and plural, that is to say, of Convergence and Union – they were necessary co-operators – and without need, counsel – of the counter-reform of the electrical system, which has brought us where it has brought us. They are not capable of completing the first objectives set by the European Union, neither at the level of the State nor at the level of Catalonia. Now, I think we have an opportunity, in Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies, to return to the debate and seek consensus on the strategic orientations of the energy transition, which should allow us to recover stability and legal certainty to investors. That also depends on the parliamentary mathematicians here and there, huh? We already know or understand that the transformation of the energy model is driven by technological development and the fight against climate change. We also know that, despite the resistance to change in the electricity sector, the centre of gravity will shift from large companies to consumers, who will have a much more active role in consumer management, and also in the generation of their energy. Therefore, we believe that energy can become the engine of this change. The system, which we already have here, I repeat again, despite the resistance of the big energy corporations, will be a system every time more decentralized, with more generation of small scale distributed and in its major renewable part, without also giving up the big producers, the more centralized production. A great development of energy services also aimed at managing consumption more effectively. We believe that technological innovation, the maturation and reduction of renewable energy, in particular photovoltaic and wind power, the same telecommunications, the automation of the driveway and industry, help this direction to get into a process of energy transition. Mr Councilman, we Socialists believe that a concerted process on the road to energy transition is necessary. On this subject we have insisted, we did not go out with the two previous advisors of the branch, who even did not even dignify to bring to this Parliament the debate on the energy plans that had been drawn up, huh? Even so, we saw the announcement of a plan on the energy transition that was announced a few weeks after the elections. We believe that it is necessary to ensure stability in energy policy and to address the objectives set by the European Union, the United Nations sustainability agreements and the Paris summit agreements that have recently been held, and that is why there is a need for broad consensus from the parliamentary groups on the direction of this policy. Yesterday he announced to us that the Government is working on a national pact document on energy transition. For us, there are some objectives that should be taken into account: that Catalonia must be a more efficient country from the point of view of energy; that it must be deployed in residential and industrial education and efficiency programmes, and also of mobility; that it must be ensured that energy sub-administration guarantees quality and reliability, developing the maximum potential of renewables to reduce external dependence, and above all with a price of agreement with the prices of our environment and our competence. We should be able to reduce the dependence of fossil fuels, especially in the field of transport; we should urgently address the nuclear debate; we should be able to reduce the energy precariousness that affects a part of the citizenry; we should be able to inform and train citizens because they are responsible actors as well as producers as consumers, and we should be able to have more self-government to design and implement an energy policy. Now, what we have to do is also exercise those powers that the State already holds us up, because despite the centralizing policy of the Government of the State, the Government has powers; deploy them, they have made other communities with less powers than Catalonia: Múrcia, Canàries, Balears, Extremadura, and I no longer speak to you about the Basque Country, huh? They have a very powerful energy agency, not now, from the beginning of the approval of their Statute, which coincides with ours, the first. And, in the band of technological innovation, which surely has to help, I repeat that the current majorities of parliament here, parliamentary arithmetic here, and above all at the level of the State, and that is the final result that at the central level leads to the formation of the Government, will have to allow, will certainly allow a negotiation in substance and a majority consensus that must lead us to shorten this path of the necessary energy transition. We don't just play the fight against climate change, or the mitigation or adaptation to climate change; we also play such important issues, from our point of view, as the competitiveness of our country's industrial sector. Days later, in this Parliament, the Secretary of Industry appeared, at his request and from all parliamentary groups, to speak, for example, of the chlorine industry, which is a very energy-intensive industry. I think we've all met with representatives, unions, and business representatives from this energy-intensive sector. That is why we also need a policy of energy transition, that is why we need to put energy policies at the highest level of government decision-making, also in Catalonia. He asks you, Counselor, that the Government of Catalonia, moreover, does not fall back on the mistakes of the recent past that led them to give support – I repeat – to the counter-reform of the electrical system. Now we have the opportunity to correct the line and to be able, among all, to agree on this policy that brings us to measurable objectives. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish, President – 2030 and, above all, 2050.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.61.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member, first of all, would like to thank you for the way in which you asked the question. I believe that it has done so in some absolutely positive terms, absolutely of the search for the dialog and here the Government will find it, because, you say, in energy we play the future; we play the future not only for the quality of life of people, we play the future for the competitiveness of our businesses and our productive activity; we play the future because energy is also an essential element and an essential factor in the struggle against climate change. And so we have to focus, that is to say, on any aspect and any area that we work on in energy, we also have to have the fight against climate change and actions in favour of environmental balance. You've made a reference to the behavior of the group, I'll talk to you now as the government. The parliamentary group did approve the Law of the electric system, of Convergence and Union, then; but the government filed an appeal of unconstitutionality. And here I speak on behalf of the government and we defend the government and I think the paper the government did, in this sense, was a coherent option. And you also refer to whether or not we have done anything about energy policy. Look, it's approved a plan, it's true; this plan... its numerical objectives, so we won't complement them and they won't complement them, and they won't complement them for two reasons, basically: the first one, because it provides for a growing environment of constant electrical and energy demand and, in fact, in the situation we are currently in, we are with an electrical, energy demand, which was the one that was there in 2004, 2005, so, instead of growing, the demand has gone down. And secondly, because there has been a series of decisions taken, which affect the retribution of the cogeneration of renewable energies or waste, which have prevented the development of renewables in our country. And this means that, as far as numerical objectives are concerned, this plan will certainly come to 2020 and we will not complete what we have done for the objective, but for what it does for the long-term orientation, yes for the emphasis on energy efficiency, yes for the emphasis on energy sustainability, yes for the focus on renewables and yes for integrating, in the dimension of energy policy, the values also of the struggle against climate change. That is to say, this plan was done, it was the first time that it talked about energy supply, energy quality, energy infrastructure, energy research, but it also talked about efficiency, summer and renewable energy. So, there were these two windows. I agree, we need an efficient energy model, that is, sure, competitive and environmentally sustainable. A model, and you said it, based on renewable energies, self-sufficiency, sustainability, efficiency and a decentralized production model. This also requires us to promote a change in the regulatory framework, so that we can also guarantee a more democratic control of energy, and that access to energy, you said, is also characterized as a fundamental right, so that we can respond to the need to guarantee energy consumption to those people who are in a poor situation. And what do we have to do to face these challenges? So, in the first place, the need to change this energy model that deposes in excess of fossil fuels. And we have to change it for a model that is based on renewable energies, compromised in the fight against climate change and placing us in this horizon, which the time that we have to start to have is the time of 2050, in which Catalonia has an energy production that is close to 100_percent in renewable energies. And in any scene we also have to work to try to achieve one thing: consume less energy per unit produced, so be more efficient. This challenge is central to all those policies of energy efficiency, and it affects – and you said so – industry, especially mobility, rehabilitation of buildings, enhancement of forest biomass or renewable energies or cogeneration, among other aspects. Therefore, a model based on energy efficiency and renewable energies, these are the centrality elements of this model that we want and that we should look for among all to develop for Catalonia. And this is the model we propose that is debated and approved by the joint civil society and political forces in the framework of this National Energy Transition Pact in Catalonia. It is a model that recognizes that energy is an essential element for competitiveness; a model focused on the consumer of energy, based on renewable energy and efficiency. And so, what we want to do is this national pact. A process of consultation with the country's economic and social agents has now been completed, through the consolidation of the Pact's scope, so as to generate broad consensus around the strategic axes of the new energy policy. What's our intention? Our intention is to present it briefly, at the beginning of the new session period in Parliament, for its discussion, either in the framework of a table of parties or in the framework of the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge, or in the framework of a specific committee which I believe is the subject of the debate which Parliament itself decides. With this, we want to enter it and it's discussed, it's discussed, because... And what are the thrusts of this energy policy that we are setting up? The first is the guarantee of the right of access to energy and the defence of consumers' rights. One_second would be to guarantee Catalonia's energy supply and the reliability and quality of its sub-administrations. A third is based on the attainment of the highest level of education and energy efficiency in the Catalan economy and society. The fourth is the maximization of the use of renewable energy sources, especially indigenous ones. The fifth is to promote energy research and innovation as vectors of efficiency and the creation of business activities. And the sixth would be the democratization of energy and the participation of society in defining this new energy model. Because, in order to complete the full deployment of this new energy model, these lines also need to be complemented by another additional axis, which reverses the development of legislative and regulatory actions that are necessary because the Catalan institutions can exercise full powers in the field of energy in the framework of the European Union. And here we must also complement it with a prospect, a prospect of demand and the energy needs of Catalonia that we will have in the year 2050. We are basing ourselves on this horizon, because that is how we can reorient our energy policy as a function of that socio-economic, energy and environmental framework, and also repositioning all the agents currently operating in the energy sector. This is the government's will and this is a will that we want to bring to the debate in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.64.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, it cost the former government, huh? , file the unconstitutionality appeal, but we'll leave it here. I asked him about the National Pact for Energy Transition, because what we knew about the estuary of the past year, before we started the electoral campaign, man, some critics of economic agents, of economic, social sectors, there was, from some cluster, respect that document, right? He taught us the booklets yesterday. Let's hope we can get to know something more about this document. Let 'em: we won't just complete the objects because..., or we won't change the objects. You said: "We will not loosen the objects because the demand has dropped. And the energy transition will not only be based on demand, we will be based on the transformation, too, of the model. He has explained to us that he wants to maximize the use of renewable energy sources. I don't know how this document will end or how it will come out. Now, we will ask that in this matter there is a clear wording and position without ambiguity, that the ambiguity serves many times to agree, however, in view of the experiences we have in Catalonia, they are sources of subsequent conflicts in the country; therefore, clearly written, a clear position respects this subject. We would like to ask him if he can already quantify the objectives at these times. Is that to say, can you tell us if you have, the government, or will have, a wind energy development plan? Can you explain to us if you have started working on a plan to boost photovoltaics? With the geothermal, do you think you'll do anything? And biomass? Who are the objectives of the national pact? You think you could get to fix targets for electricity demand coverage for renewable energy between 60 and 70 per cent at 2030 time, before the current trend scenario that could bring us, not well to half, but if some points per sub? What do they think they're proposing with nuclear energy? Are they partisans, yes or no? Because if we read..., and I don't know if the national pact drinks from these fonts or not, but if we read White Paper No. 9 of the national transition, it's in a nebula. I'm not, there, suspected of being in the process, read me 'lshe, huh? As you can imagine. The question, Counselor, is clear: do you believe that in the Catalan and Spanish energy mix beyond 2025 nuclear energy must be present? And if it is not to be present, how do you think it is to guarantee sub-administration in quality? And without leaving nuclear energy, what do they think should be done with nuclear waste? Leave them to the current pools, which are already filled, build a warehouse? Reprocess the residue? What will they propose to facilitate the distributed generation or the implementation of closed networks where possible? Can you explain to us how many energy service companies are already operating at these times and how many projects have they made? How many public buildings have energy efficiency measures been taken? Does the pact provide for objectives to be assessed year-on-year by those efficiency and non-performance plans and programs? We believe that the plan must establish reliable and transparent indicators of follow-up. He explained to us today that one of the measures to decarbonize the economy – we agree – was to focus on mobility, and put the emphasis on the electric vehicle. The government has explained in drums and platters over the refresh point plans. A couple of questions. Who's going to sell the energy? Are we consolidating or trying to consolidate a monopoly in this sector as well? Have you considered taking photos of women's electrolinear accounts to help with the implementation of the electric vehicle? If with the current jurisdictional framework of the Generality, which says we have shared competencies, we would also want to know what the government's strategy will be to change and redesign the regulatory models that allow us to move forward decisively in the path of energy transition. Saying in another way, how do you think these negotiating bases should also be established and agree with the Spanish State and the rest of the political forces of the Spanish State? In short, I return to express the need for broad consensus to initiate and sustain energy transition policies in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.66.0	Thank you, Madam President. Look, our will, and so you will see, is that all these questions follow in the plan. And you did some questions about which... what's going on. So, today – today – the Secretary of Habitat and the department are presenting and pushing..., and making a new boost to the Catalan strategy of energy renovation of buildings, that what it wants is to boost the rehabilitation of buildings to include criteria, equipment and technologies of energy improvement, and then..., to reduce the use of the dependence of fossil fuels on the part of transport, the plan that we are making and that we are driving, a strategic plan of increase and improvement of the infrastructure of electricity for electric vehicles in Catalonia. A plan that we want to make manageable, among other things because we've been doing the necessary legislative changes for a long time, and it's not over yet, because that's what we can do. In biomass we had not acted, and now we have, in a coordinated way with all the departments of the Generality involved, a strategic biomass plan and we already have a park of two thousand biomass boilers in Catalonia and an increase in the production capacity, for example, of oil. And for what it does to the Energy Efficiency Plan of the buildings, the first fruits are being donated, and they have already allowed to reduce – it is also an estalvi– more than 9_million euros per year the energy bill of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Strengthening the ESAs. This Tuesday the Government approved an aid of 8_million euros, which wants to mobilise 340_million euros through the ICF, therefore, to facilitate the performance of all entities, well, energy service companies. Feather refers to the debate on nuclear energy. Catalonia has... nuclear energy is, in fact, the main energy production technology in Catalonia, with more than 53_per_cent; more than half of all the total production of electric energy fem through nuclear energy. Therefore, when the debate on the future of nuclear power is discussed, a future that its administrative life, not real, its administrative life ends between the years 2021 and 2024, so, we must take this as a substitute, if this is done, as a substitute for more than half of the source that produces energy in Catalonia. And the first thing we need to do as a government is to guarantee energy sub-administration and that quality. France, which is also a country that is highly nuclear, which, therefore, seems to have its production of nuclear power of 75_per_cent, is making a plan to reduce one_third the presence of energy-related electricity production linked to nuclear energy in its energy mix. Well, doing this to Catalonia, for example, would suppose, so, we have to reduce it by a thousand megawatts and the lockdown of a power plant. We can assume that every time we have an alternative, why this alternative what can be? The combined cycles? Because we could tell; because we need an alternative, a continuous, continuous energy, which allows us to guarantee the sub-administration. If it's combined cycles, then we'll increase emissions, and something that should be compatible, or something that should be positive, then it gives a crease on the other side. What do we do with wind power? We have to put down three thousand megawatts of wind energy, huh? Can they do it? If we hurt the last few years we've been unable to put down eight hundred, for what it is – for what it is. So, when we do these debates we have to do with these data and some of this realism. It is clear that if we want to go to the replacement of nuclear energy, we will have to make a new wind energy installation plan in this country. But energy, we need to be aware that if we want to replace all the power and all the electricity generated by nuclear energy in this country, we would need more than a thousand kilometers of space in a straight line to set up aerogenerators, which is to see if we would be able to get it. Therefore, the debate must be – the debate must be –, it must be done calmly and, therefore, we are prepared to face it here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.67.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the European Medicines Agency]] [[300-00078/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the European Medicines Agency, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose it has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.68.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, asked the question about the European Medicines Agency, and it is that, as you know, Councillor, it is an agency of the European Union with its own in London, to the Kingdom Unit, which is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed for pharmaceutical companies for its use in the European Union. Its main responsibility is to protect and promote the public health of people and animals and, moreover, it has a prominent role in stimulating innovation and research in the pharmaceutical sector. Its main functions are: adoption of medicines for human and veterinary use, derived from biotechnology and other high-level processes, medicines for human use for the treatment of HIV and AIDS, cancer, diabetes or neurodegenerative diseases, or medicines for the treatment of rare diseases. Monitoring the safety of medicinal products through a pharmacovigilance network and taking appropriate measures when reports of adverse effects of medicinal products indicate changes in the benefit/ risk balance of a drug. Innovation, and innovation that also at the agency..., provides scientific advice and assistance to companies in the development of protocols for the development of new medicines and publishes guidelines to control the quality, safety and effectiveness of medicines. Under the Spanish presidency of the European Union, 1992 was Barcelona's candidacy to opt to be its own of the European Medicines Agency, but finally it was approved that London was its fixed one. From then on, the agency has expanded its functions, and in the present day it has come to have almost eight hundred people working there. The health sector, councillor, and also councillor Romeva, as you know, has traditionally considered, from the standpoint of expenditure, that it is also an economic sector of high value added. The sector's activities are extensive. They are more or less in favour of the care process, such as pharmacy, diagnostic support activities, general maintenance services, health equipment-related activities, production and distribution of consumables or transportation. One of the main elements that makes salvation such a dynamic sector is, to be sure, the great capacity for generating appropriate knowledge, from areas such as biomedical research, the development of technologies applied to care and diagnosis and innovation, also from the pharmaceutical field, as well as the transformations in care processes developed by professionals. Knowledge ensures the progress of the health sector and brings in other economic sectors that interact. The health sector has a leading position in the Catalan economy in terms of added value generation and occupation, and it is one of the economic engines, one of the sectors, as I say, more innovative and with potential exporters and capital attraction. It is the third most important sector in Catalonia, as far as economics and the second for what it does to the generation of occupation. At a time, the health sector is the second sector that spends most on technological innovation, especially pharmaceutical companies. Catalonia concentrates almost the 30_per_cent of the health sector, innovative of the Spanish State. In this sense, the sector patents more to Catalonia than the rest of the Spanish state's joint venture, especially in the pharmaceutical subsector, concentrating more than 60_percent of the companies they patent. In this brand, therefore, the pharmaceutical industry clearly stands out, since it represents one of the main areas of the industries of health and life sciences, search engine, engine of development and innovation, R+D+I, of the Catalan industry, rather than being a direct and indirect generator of the places of work in our territory. It must be borne in mind that half of the national and international pharmaceutical companies installed in the State are located in our country. Here, to Catalunya. Some of the data that I think is worth highlighting, in a very, very obvious way, of this industry in Catalonia: 230 pharmaceutical laboratories, of which, a 40_per_cent, 90, are manufacturers. This xifra represents almost 50_percent of all the pharmaceutical industry located in the Spanish State: 21,200 persons occupied in Catalonia, xifra which accounts for 3.3_percent of the industrial occupation in Catalonia and 56,2_percent of the occupation of the Spanish pharmaceutical sector. Catalonia is a power in pharmaceutical production in Europe and has a highly productive and competitive industrial sector. The Catalan pharmaceutical production represents 3.5_percent of the European market and is comparable to that of the Netherlands: 4_per_cent– 4_per_cent –, Netherlands; 3,7_per_cent, Denmark, and Sweden, 3,6_per_cent. The Catalan pharmaceutical sector is therefore the 5th most productive sector in the European Union. More than a powerful pharmaceutical industry, Catalonia has a unique model of internationally recognized hospital research, without doubt, with institutes of research, health research, configured around the great university hospitals, which guarantee the transfer of scientific knowledge generated to healthcare practice and which give a key role, obviously, to the hospital sector as a tractor, in innovation, in pharmaceutical and technological medical products. In this sense, Catalonia is a preferred place for the realization of clinical trials, for a tradition and experience and a level search, an effective patient selection and a competitive cost. And this is our reality, counselors, you know very well, as members of the government. And it is this reality, and in this will that our country, Catalonia, has always stood out clearly, from its very beginnings, from all the productive spheres, but from all the social spheres, also of entities and associations, which, obviously, our world is the world. And with this "our world, our world, is the world, is the world, where, Councillor Comín and Councillor Romeva, also, I ask you and ask you, Councillor Comín, in a very clear way, what is the position on the part of the Government, taking into account our reality, our context and opportunity, also, from a point of view, therefore, that London will no longer be its own from the European Medicines Agency. Thank you for future explanations. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.69.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. Greetings from the Councillor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.70.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam MP, Barcelona deserves it. You explained it very well. Barcelona is perfectly worth being your own agency. Why? Because when one looks and compares, he finds that there are few European cities that meet so many conditions to be his own agency like this. Because... you explained it very well, we have everything: we have the research, huh? , we are the fourth European region in generation of knowledge of excellence, we have the care network, eh? One of the forces of our search for salvation, precisely, we will never tire of explaining it, is the symbiosis between search and attendance. A research that, without being so close to attendance, would not be so powerful and an assistance that is clearly benefitting from the advances of the research, right? Therefore, the catal case is a very exemplary case of how the search must be closely linked. And so, our health research institutes are institutes of our public hospitals, the great health research institutes of Catalonia, aren't they? We've got the industry. You've given the money, let's just say, don't you? We have... it's one of the hubs we can tell you about the most important pharmaceutical industry in Europe, Catalonia. And we have innovation and we are, and we can say, one of the main European motors in R+D+I weaving development. And all that, I insist, huh? That's what we're talking about. We have a triangle... - You can say that, can't you? – we have a triangle of excellence between research, assistance and industry. It is this articulation that makes many experts in the sector talk about the ecosystem. The Catalan biopharmaceutical ecosystem, huh? the Catalan eco-system in search of health, health system and industry. We have, for example, Catalonia, important experts in assessing innovation in the pharmaceutical industry who are linked to the most important sectors at European and international level. Tenim, decades ago... – what is Catalonia? – has long been one of the areas of attraction of the pharmaceutical industry at European level, at international level, for the development of nine molecules in phase 2 and 3. I mean, there's a long tradition of Catalonia in that sense. Therefore, Catalonia – and Barcelona, concretely – has all the conditions. And like he's got all the conditions, he deserves it. And that's why we propose ourselves... because, objectively, it's up to us to compete to attract this one with the great applications there may be from the rest of Europe. What are Scandinavian cities? Magnificent. What's Milà's presentation? Magnificent. What are French cities? Magnificent. We don't have worse conditions, that these other applications, we have at least the same conditions, or, at the very least, I would say that we have better conditions. So, the first one we have to hear... we have to believe that we deserve it and that, with a cold and objective analysis – you've given us coffees, huh? , and now I won't repeat them, so – with a cold and objective analysis, effectively Barcelona is one of the natural candidates. I would argue in these terms: Barcelona is one of the natural candidates for this European agency. For something year 92 we were about to get it, because nobody forgets that year 92, actually, we were just a step away from getting it. Actually, it was the favorite candidacy for many of the clau actors, huh? , of the European institutions. And, therefore, that previous one still confirms to us that it would be a mistake on the part of the Government of Catalonia not to launch this candidacy, not to participate in this open, transparent competition – that we expect it to be open and transparent – if we are one of the candidates to win the match. But more than that, actually, we don't just deserve it, it's that Barcelona cares a lot, because this agency is not an agency of any kind. There is a lot of European agencies... in fact, there are a few in Spain; in fact, in Barcelona we already have one, we have one of the European agencies, which is Fusion for Energy, that of ITER, right? But... not all European agencies have the same transcendence, and I would say that the European Medicines Agency is in the top five or top ten of European agencies. That is to say, it is one of the five or the most important agencies of the European Union. And, therefore, we are very interested. It's not just the professional nine-cents that – let's remember, huh? – they are dedicated to regulation, they are dedicated to ensuring the safety of medicines, they are dedicated..., they are not an agency that is dedicated to promoting industrial development, so there are no others, agencies..., this agency that does is to protect citizens, guarantee and regulate the medicine in a way that meets all the conditions of safety that a product as sensitive as this requires. And, therefore, the agency is also dedicated to all pharmacovigilance functions. And then it helps industry develop its research and development protocols. But more than that, apart from being one of the most important agencies in the European institutional system, it is that it is not just the agency, it is not just its 800, 900 professionals, it is all the indirect impacts. The indirect impacts of this agency are extraordinary. You have every week hundreds or drawings of experts from all over Europe who come to participate in agency commissions. Today, Catalonia has great experts who are going to London – we have people who are working with the Government of Catalonia today – who are chairing some of the most important committees that the European Agency has today. So, this trip from Barcelona to London, starting from a series of any point from Europe to Barcelona. All these experts who would constantly come to Barcelona. And, besides, as important as that, the delegations of the pharmaceutical industry. Because there is the European Medicines Agency, there are delegations from all over the European and, indeed, international pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, Barcelona deserves it, Barcelona has a right, Barcelona has to be able to play the league of great candidatures. At these times, we know, Milà has corrected a lot, maybe too much; we want to do things either slowly or too quickly, just the way you allow us to win this game, let's just say it, right? I in Barcelona, they're interested. But, in addition, we still want to give another message, from naturality, from normality, and Catalonia is a country of European vocation, Catalonia is in Europe, has been in Europe, will continue to be in Europe and wants to remain in Europe. And when we offer, from the Government of Catalonia, Barcelona and its European Medicines Agency, we are giving a very clear signal. We are saying: "Whether you decide to take the citizens of our country... Because we are doing a very interesting process and one of the things that the interesting thing is that it is a clearly and fully democratic process. And the sign that we are giving is: "Whoever decided to take the citizens of our country, the future of Catalonia is in Europe. Barcelona is today a great European capital and will continue to be a great European capital. They want to be in Europe. Certainly, we don't just want to be in Europe, we want to help make a better Europe. They want to be in Europe, too, to transform it; they want to be in Europe to change it. Our being in Europe, of Catalan society, has never been a passive being. Our "being in Europe is an active being there. And at these moments that Europe has so far before it, it is clear that the European vocation of Catalonia must be a European vocation that helps to make this leap before Europe asks and its citizens ask. Therefore, let us not forget that when the Government of Catalonia says that we want Barcelona to follow its own of the European Medicines Agency, we are thinking very, very much of the value that this would bring to our..., this biomedical ecosystem, to our research, to our pharmaceutical industry, to the value that we can bring to the agency by virtue of this ecosystem, but we are also making it from a logical, we might say, international relationship. That is why this committee, which has recently been created, is colliding with Councillor Romeva and Councillor Baiget, because here there is a derivative, in relation to this candidacy, that has much to do with the health sector, but there is another derivative that has much to do with our pharmaceutical industrial fabric and there is a derivative that would probably be the most relevant to all of them, that has to do with our foreign policy. So, somehow, I make the appearance in representation of the three councillors and the vice president, who is also a part..., and of the councillor of the Presidency, who are also a part of this commission. We are saying to Europe: « Catalunya will be European, Catalonia wants to be in Europe, Catalonia knows that it will follow Europe and, therefore, we consider that the best possible of EMA is Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.71.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.72.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Indeed, I believe that opportunities have power, let's say, to take advantage of as much as possible. If Barcelona has had the opportunity to be its own agency for twenty-three years now, I believe that the evolution of the cluster of biosciences is to grow even more. Twenty-three years are too many years to be consolidated, not just everything that the pharmaceutical sector represents, but everything that represents the different disciplines in the field of health, which has certainly been consolidated from the point of view of the solid also of talent and knowledge. You said..., says: "We have no worse conditions. Actually, that's a good thing, counselor, years against it, isn't it? Catalonia – especially its capital – presents a series of treats that the fan very attractive and very convenient to become its own from a multilateral organization like this. A point of north-south connection, Europe-Mediterranean; a point of good sea, air, land connections; a research center and knowledge with prestigious universities; a hub of multilateral organizations, which are very important, that have gone consolidating over the years. So, every time, let's just say, the elements were consolidating to the right direction, the good opportunity we have as the territories. The assumption of the agency for the year 2015, remember that it was more than 300_million euros; therefore, this is also opportunity for all that represents the conjunction not only of science and development of the sector, but also for all that has to do with the productive economy. Certainly, Italia, Sweden, Denmark, France – which I think they have proposed Strasbourg and Lió – are loving, logically, and therefore this obliges us to make a proposal – said it very well, advise – without any type of hurry, but with all humility, but with all rigour and solidity because it is an absolutely excellent proposal and, in this sense, absolutely, let us say it positive. Thank you very much for the explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.73.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.74.0	Exactly, Congresswoman, I subscribe to everything you say, because that's it. And as this game is important and as this game we have right to play it and as this game we deserve to win it, we will try to do it well, as well as we know. And to do well, from the Government of Catalonia, we have designed the following organizational structure to bring forward this candidacy. It was constituted two weeks ago – if the memory does not fail – a commission, of which I have already spoken in the previous intervention, of the same Government, institutional commission, which has the main responsibility to pull forward this candidacy, which has the responsibility to prepare the file, to do the whole institutional network necessary to position Barcelona. And in this committee we have, today, five councils of the Government of the Generality : Vice Presidency, Presidency, External Relations, Greeting and Business and Knowledge. But we understand that this committee needs to be expanded, as at least, with another institution that is decisive in the impulse of this candidacy, which is the Barcelona Assembly. It is obvious that the Barcelona Assembly wants you to be an accomplice in this adventure and, therefore, we are in the process of inviting the Assembly..., to appreciate the possibility of joining this committee. And, apparently, the assembly will make its decision. For a song we have this. Now, that's what we have to stop, that we can't stop names from the government of the country and from the government of the city, that we have to stop names from all interested actors. And as we have explained before, the actors concerned, the actors involved, there are many, not to mention many. When we talk about the biomedical ecosystem of Catalonia, we talk about universities, we talk about research centres, we talk about research institutes, we talk about our hospital network, we talk about the pharmaceutical industry, and, therefore, it is urgent to create a large committee, a large committee – we can say so – to support this candidacy, with the participation of civil society. So, like the government, we invite all the actors involved to join this support committee. And we will have to look for some figure of prestige that can represent this great social coalition, this great civil coalition, where, I insist, there must be industry, there must be social agents, there must be research, there must be colleges: colleges of doctors, colleges of pharmaceuticals, colleges of veterinarians... Let us not forget – let us not forget – that the security for which the EMA is responsible is the security of all the medicine, the medicine of human use and the medicine of animal use. So, this commission. And then, it's normal that in a situation like this, there's an office that's in charge of operating and taking over the day-to-day management that generates an application like this, which is not a small one. Therefore, our idea is that there is a commission, with its office – or commission –, that is who drives the daily agenda of this candidacy. This would be the structure, this will be the institutional structure of the candidacy of Barcelona as well as its of the European Medicines Agency. The interinstitutional committee; the support committee, with all the actors we invite from the government and all those who want to add to their own initiative, and the commission or commission. We are aware that the candidate before the European Council is the Government of the State of which that city is a part, in our case the Spanish Government. But we must start, and so do, from the conviction that it will act according to rationality criteria. Therefore, on the basis of the presumption of rationality, which I understand is what corresponds to us as the Government will be, we assume the rationality of all institutions, including the Spanish Government, and therefore, from the undisputed evidence that the best possible candidacy in southern Europe is Barcelona, we understand that we will also have the collaboration..., or, at least, we will not have the obstacle of the Government of Spain at the time of submitting this candidacy. Play the game well; create an organizational structure that allows us to make a good promotion; all complementary diplomacy, which in these cases is very important; we have good allies in Europe, we are at this time already activating, and, according to the presumption of rationality, expect everyone to do the best for Barcelona, for the pharmaceutical industry, for the progress of health and for the future of the European institutions. Thank you, honourable Member, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.75.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the airport policy of the Spanish State and its influence on the recent problems of Vueling]] [[300-00079/11]] The next item is the question to the Government about the airport policy of the Spanish State and AENA and its impact on the recent problems of Vueling, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes. To expose it has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.76.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, advisors, last week's head, June 26th and the following days, we were able to observe an activity..., or, in any case, we found that Vueling company had problems giving the usual service that it was doing, was..., at the Prat airport, and that a multitude of flights and a multitude of citizens and passengers were affected by these cancellations, by these delays. In some cases they were days of leave and holidays, and in other cases they were business trips, but in the end, the operation of a company with a lot of operation at the Prat airport, therefore, caused many problems to the citizenry. The problem that has occurred, as the same airline has acknowledged, was, basically, the result of management, a poor internal planning of the same company, and, therefore, let's say, from this point of view, it was not attributable, in any case, to the airport infrastructure. But, in any case, and from this point of view we would like to..., even though some questions have already been resolved and that the week that you are scheduled to attend on your part, we would like you to clarify us or, in any case, if you can tell us who the government's capture is and what actions have had more to do with it. And we have to say that we can explain to you today what actions the Government of the Generality has had to carry out and what the Government of the Generality is thinking about in this matter. To us, what seems to us also..., and, in any case, the case, let's say, of the Vueling crisis, that in this sense has come to pose also of manifest... – and in this sense we also proposed this inquiry, poses again on the table a speech, a debate, a need of this country, that is to approach the model of management of the airport of Barcelona - Prat. We understand that with some of the elements that have occurred these days is obviously the lack of competition, the lack of competence that the Government of the Generality has and that, in any case, despite this, the Government has put it in the needle. But, in any case, it seems to us that if we solve in good part the management model that we currently have, surely some of these problems that have been given in the management of the Vueling crisis..., surely we could have put some remei, surely beforehand and we could have managed the issue differently. Leave me a certain timeline and a certain record because it seems to me that it's interesting, from this point of view, to do... where we find ourselves and where we come from and why we find ourselves in this context. The management model of the Prat airport is a model that pulls away from the centralized management model that used to be in most European airports, with one company per country and that, in any case, this model, this role, starts to change from the eighties, from the liberalisation of the market and with which a multitude of companies start to appear and with which, and from this moment, the big ones..., many states start to set up a different management model. Individualized management skills at many airports begin to be held, and this makes there a model of competition between airports, sometimes including the same State, that makes this competition good. In the case of the Spanish State, AENA, and through the AENA-Iberia binomial, let's say, one and the other need each other, it is a model that is still closed, centralized, with a vision of lack..., and without any hint of openness. The clearest demonstration is that when Iberia decides to stop operating at the Prat airport and makes the transfer of its slots; slots, let's say it..., after dubious legality, through its Clickair subsidiary, and from the Clickair merger with Vueling, it ends up passing the slots to Vueling. It seems to us that no one here put a thread to the needle, but that, in any case, we understand that it is not complete the legal requirements, that it was the fact that Iberia would have to dispose of 50_percent of the company's title, and it was only available to the 25, so I could not make this transfer. This transfer, too, was made and, in any case, the location was that a company like Vueling had a preferential element, and therefore, let's say, from this point of view, AENA located its airport of reference in Barajas and an airport, let's say, of support, and therefore, as has been said some times from the Spanish State and from Barajas, the T-5 of Barajas is located at the Barcelona airport. We understand that the model, the model that has advocated for Iberia, is an obsolete model, it is a model that, from our point of view, does not bring absolutely no better, no better will to the system. A centralized model, a model that, theoretically... – and here we might be, somewhere, okay – but that, in any case, efficiency and practice have shown that this is not so. A model in which, theoretically, the most powerful airports should help to compensate airports that have a public interest but that do not surely have the name of the necessary passengers, but, as has happened in other cases with other infrastructures dependent on the Spanish Government, what has happened is to squander public resources in reverse at airports that have no sense. The same model that has passed with high speed has ended up passing, too, with the model of airports. Just give us a few examples: that at Huesca airport, we just land..., the low..., only six_ thousand travellers a year; so, let's say this every time..., and AENA kept running at this airport; this airport, every time a traveler went there, costs 1,600_euros to AENA, just for maintenance. We see what profitability is in question. So let's say to ourselves... this system, this model, sure it doesn't work, because, in any case, they show their faults at various airports, some of which have had to be closed, as we have seen, or some that have not yet been opened. We also understand that the model of centralisation that AENA has worked from this point of view has prioritized Barajas from any other airport. The Ministry of Development, AENA, always apologizes for saying that this is a willingness of companies, to land anywhere else, but it is not true. In any case, we can see that there are a multitude of bilateral agreements between the Spanish State and other states that prioritize..., or prohibit airlines from some countries from landing at the Prat airport and from landing at the Barajas airport. Therefore, from this point of view, there is no such freedom of movement as theoretically they say of AENA, but, in any case, there is a clear direction to which these flights must go. This greatly limits the ability, let's say, of the Prat airport to target and mark its fates, and therefore to try nine times. And another element, also, critical, in this system of infrastructures, basically the postarian, the emphasis, in the infrastructures of support to the intermodality model, of support of the train, of the metro, infrastructures that from the Ministry of Development have been arrived, they have financed, in the case of Barajas, and in the case, let us say, of the Generalitat of Catalonia, we have had to finance the L9, the Generalitat has had to finance the L9, to arrive until the airport of Prat, and, in any case, the requested doubling of the line of the train that goes up to Prat is still about to execute. Therefore, from our point of view, this fallen model has to be finished; it has to be finished and we defend another model, a model that, in any case, is more modern, a model that favors the internationalization of the Catalan economy, allows us to go out into the world. And, therefore, we demand an individualized management of the Prat airport through a public-private consortium, formed for the Government of the Generality, also formed for the local authorities, especially the Barcelona City Council, and also that private operators can participate in it, in a way that was done at the time, and exists, and, therefore, we have an experience from this point of view, with the CDRA, the Committee for the Development of Aerial Routes; a mechanism created in 2005 that allows us to work with public and private operators in search of international flights. And it seems to us that this is the way to work, it seems to us that this is the way to go, the collaboration that allows you to lead trips, to work to make the Prat airport attractive. If the Prat airport is attractive to everyone, from this point of view bringing more flights and especially international flights, we will certainly make it a more dynamic airport. In any case, and hopefully, let's say, of the second intervention, I will finish my intervention complaining yet some of the elements that we believe make viable or necessary fan this management from the airport of Barcelona, from Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.77.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bloods. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.78.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen..., honourable Member, thank you for this inquiry in which..., you focused it on two elements. A first is absolutely necessary and peremptory, which is to explain what the Government of Catalonia is doing before the specific crisis of Vueling, which has affected thousands of Catalan users, and with certain conditions that have reached an unfortunate point. But the other, in the fall of what has happened to Vueling, is to give a general reflection on our strategic view of the Catalan airport model and the Barcelona airport. Let's start with the first element, starting from the base, however, that Vueling's problem is strictly Vueling's; it is to say that here there was someone who wanted to suggest..., and the other day he was talking to Congressman Germà Bel, someone who wanted to suggest that what happened to Vueling is the result of a concrete model, airport, conceived from a centralist or centralist view. No, no, This refers to the difficulties that Barcelona airport has in being a truly competitive airport from a point of view of intercontinental natural flights. But what happened to Vueling is directly attributable to the company. And here you have given various elements, you pointed it out; the same company has acknowledged that there was a planning problem, that there was an important gap between what was being offered and the instruments to provide these offers, which means material resources and human resources. Faced with a specific contingency, in this case the crisis that there was or the wave of controllers in France, dropped the whole system, huh? , and this was seen on four days when the company did not have the ability to cope with the offers it had itself articulated. From here, the Government of Catalonia takes the initiative. Yesterday Councillor Baiget explained what we did as a government in relation to user care through the Catalan Consumer Agency, but, further beyond that, we have established a meeting of permanent character, every morning at nine o'clock in the morning, between the Government of Catalonia and the company, to which we follow the contingency plan that has put on the Vueling table. From this perspective, we immediately summoned them, we moved forward, and the Government of the Spanish State, therefore, followed us. It's very good to be like this; it's very good if things end up. What's on the table? What did you put us on the Vueling table? So, to strengthen human resources and material resources; backup planes – from two to seven planes–, incorporating a Jumbo of four hundred places, which allows – and this has already seasoned the diumenge 10 – to regroup, group flights. In this concrete case, three flights to London in various time zones were grouped through this Jumbo, which gave them more room for manoeuvre. The crews; at these times, there are thirty-seven reserve crews, before they were only dismarried from seven. One very important thing: handling. There were three turns, now it's going to four concrete turns. There has also been a better level of informants and from a management point of view through a free phone or through the network, to confirm reservations on the part of users. With this scener, more or less, we have returned to a normality situation from a point of view of not canceling flights and from a point of view of punctuality. But now we have two very important reptes. The first challenge is the end of the week from July 15th to 17th; at these times, it seems that we have all the right equipment to do it. And, for us, another challenge is what has to pass the end of the week of the arrival of July and the departure of August, from July 30th to August 1st. Now we'll focus exclusively on this, giving just these two operations a living. This is the layout we're deploying. If Vueling does not complete, be very strong, because the only compromise we have to have, not just as the government, but as the Parliament of Catalonia, is with the users, it is with the citizens, to do everything possible to prevent it from repeating a situation as unfortunate as it has produced. From here, said this, let's go to the question of funds, which is what airport model we want. And here there is a finding, that at this time the airport of Barcelona is an airport basically operated by low-cost companies. And that's not good. Because low-cost companies mostly cost what they do... they provide a continental connection from point to point, and so we're not talking about network-designed operations, but strictly point to point. And that doesn't happen, but you do see, in this case, a political decision that is taken at a certain point, and you have explained it very well: this conception that in a serious state, that said Magdalena Álvarez, there can only be a great airport of reference, a great airport with this conception of hub, of interconnection space and above all of intercontinental supply. This was a function reserved for Madrid-Barajas, and the rest of the airports had to do, let's say, feeders strictly of this model, and this does not happen, this is a clear political decision that takes very well the Barcelona airport to be a low-cost airport. And, therefore, decisions are taken; decisions that benefit this model, let's say, centralization. Some data that we also shared with Congressman Bel yesterday. With these data it is very clear and explains very well what is happening. The Barcelona airport, as it is operating at these times, is an exceptionally profitable airport, although it has no long-range connection, continental connection, intercontinental connection, because this is a paper that is Madrid reserve, but, also, it has a level of benefits that is extraordinary, an internal very high return rate, with data from the year 2014 between 12 and 13_per_cent; it means benefits, before taxes, of 300_million euros; 50_percent of the benefits that AENA has in its conjunction are produced at the Barcelona airport. Return rate to Madrid-Barajas, 0.3_per_cent; benefits of some 27-28 million before taxes. At a time when there is a part that has been privatized, obviously the shareholders, let's say, have some remunerations that oscillate around 7_per_cent. What do you get from these paychecks? They come from a certain model of exploitation of the airport of Barcelona, because the numbers, with Madrid, strictly would not get out of the way. That's the problem and that's the foundation, and then there's a concrete political model. You proposed, on behalf of Junts per el Si, the defense of an individualized management model. The individualized management that has to be allowed is that the airport of Barcelona can compete with certain instruments and can compete to allow those companies that bet seriously to work in the network and the flights of intercontinental connection have a preference. And that means a specific tax policy and specific incentives, which Barcelona airport at these times doesn't do because AENA decides it can't do. That's the problem and that's the foundation. This is the specific situation in which we are essentially submissive, that is, to say, to hear us – and then, as the time runs out, we are going to get more into the background–..., that is – it is fixed in the paradox –: we have a very well done airport, that is to say, when Albert Vilalta designed the new terminal, terminal 1, the terminal between tracks, he designed it because it was very operational in connection flights, very operational, extraordinarily operational; therefore, man, what we have to do is to direct the airport of Barcelona and this is a decision that we cannot take now, and that AENA does not take, that it is T-1, dealing with connecting flights and intercontinental flights. This has to be the priority. And prioritise those companies, with a good tax policy and a good trade policy, those companies they post for that. The T-2? Continental connection flights, low cost. This is the base. There may be a low cost of taking on this paper, let's just say, connection and network. Okay. But we straighten it up and straighten it up with some reasonable terms. If it seems to you, Mr. Member, in the second intervention, we have just come up with what the current state of the question is and above all we are giving some avenues for the future. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.79.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.80.0	Thank you. In any case, counselor, we appreciate your words, above all for what you do to the realization, let's say, of the effects of the Vueling crisis on the own heads of the week, where really, therefore, the country will set aside its holidays in great way, and therefore, let's say, the airport will have to assume a very wide movement. And, therefore, to ensure that those families and those people who want to get out of the house on their own weekdays guarantee their right to joy in a peaceful way, therefore, it seems to us that it is good news and good information. And we are sure that the measures that you have explained to us and which you have put on the march, from the government, will have effects and that, in any case, let's say, the incidents that occurred the last week of June will not happen again; so, let's say, we can be..., or the citizens of this country will be able to enjoy with peace, let's say, from this airport. In any case, also, aggravate its layout respects the model of the airport of Prat, let's say. In any case, you clearly explained this: the lack, let us say, of individualization, the lack of freedom and the lack of capacity of the management of the airport makes us subject, like the country, to decisions that at every moment interest AENA; that many times do not keep a logic, let us say, economic, but that sometimes they keep a logic simply of imposition and of marking power. And that, in any case, I am sure that an airport... – we understand that – that a managed airport from the vicinity is an airport that is much more needed, is much more flexible to change and that allows, of course, to adapt to any need that may be there. So, from this point of view, we're still complaining. You explained..., and I can't be denouncing in your own moment what you also assumed, let's say, when the Government of the Generality tried, through the company Spanair – not only the Government, but also together with a group of entrepreneurs of the country – to set up a company that really believes the Prat airport and that from now on we can operate with an international hub and that, therefore, let's say... That operation was dynamized, because it can't be called in any other way, from the Government of the State, with its various mechanisms, which it has, as we have already used to. And I'm sure that maybe at the time there wasn't Operation Catalunya on the way, but it's always been there, huh? , it's always permanent, let's say, favor the centralist models in front, let's say, of other decentralized models. And so at that time, too, he did everything he could, including filing a complaint before the European Union, which was then filed, huh? , without..., then, without taking into account that at the time the State Government injected 2,000_million euros into Iberia to replicate it; and, in any case, in any event, they complained of aid to Spanair. Also, and another thing that seems to us to put in value, is the element of the model, that the model generates a lot of consensus, in this country. And, therefore, it's not a model that generated discussion, but it's a model in which we feel comfortable. I think that, surely – and in any case, we will certainly see it at the time of the debate of the motion – we can feel comfortable there as a whole parliamentary arc. It's a model that bets on efficiency, it's a model that bets on effectiveness, it's a model that bets on proximity and, therefore, from this point of view, to improve the country's economy, to improve citizens' day by day. We think that this management from nearness is achieved and we have demonstrated it in other areas and, therefore, we can do it. It seems to us that this model is the one that triumphs, not the one that we are offered from the ministry, with a centralized model. And finally, to finish my inquiry, I would also like if I could make five cents of the landing that it does, no longer only from the Prat airport, but from the visit, let's say, from the country's airfield. And so, let's just say, a few weeks ago the government called for the elaboration, drafting, of a strategic plan for Catalonia's aviation. And, therefore, we would also like, just as we say we have an incident at the Prat airport, so it seems to us that there are other airfields in the country that also have to play an important role. And, therefore, we would be pleased if we could draw some of the lines that are laid down through this model and what we hope, the Government, of this strategic plan, and that we can, in short, have an airport network that, together with the port network and the rail network, allows us to be a point of attraction and a tractor point of the economy of the country and of the European economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.81.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bloods. I got the word Councilman Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.82.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen... Mr Deputy, four things very quickly around what you said. The first one, making a bit of a summary of the first intervention: do I point to the point or the grid? Continental connection, intercontinental connection? We take advantage of the potential of the Barcelona airport, with its two terminals: one, the T-1 designed precisely for this, to make it a hub; and, two, the T-2, which is very operational, precisely, to go ahead to prioritize this..., the flights, point to point, and, especially, the flights of continental abaster. That would be a good model. And, therefore, what we demand is an individualized management that allows us at the new terminal, at T-1, to vacate those companies that I actually apothecize for this, which I apothecize for the network and apothecary because the airport of Barcelona has this intercontinental power. Because the demand is there. I look at some data: at these moments, at the airport of Barcelona... – not because there are companies that there are from a point of view of interconnection, of network, but because of the power that the city of Barcelona has –, and in Catalonia we have 2_million passengers of intercontinental flights. However, in Catalonia and Barcelona, we have 5 million more passengers in intercontinental destinations that do not have direct flights and that have to use other airports in order to be able to see their expectations channeled. The demand is there – there is – the airport is there. Now what we have to do is a good policy that allows us to have company that I put in for this. And it's true, what we need is another piece, which is that there's some company or some company that clearly apostates it, and this, at the time, was Spanair's bet. The third thing I would like to raise around what you say: Barcelona airport grows. What we want is for you to grow up combining these two elements: good continental connectivity, but also intercontinental. But there is a time when this level of growth, from a point of view of the air factor, needs, let's say, more oxygen. With three tracks, with two operational tracks– in fact, the two in parallel–, we arrive until we arrive. And here is where we have to design the Catalan airport model in its full size, which means complementary airports that allow us to finish consolidating this hub. A complementary system does not mean a single management. We could have a complementary but individualized management. This is the model we're planting, which means managed individually from Reus and Girona. But what I'm putting them up to is that building a new track in Barcelona, over the sea, is a chimera. And this government will never be in favor of it. But the other option is to take advantage of the availability that is in Girona and Reus. And with a connection, for example, with high speed. We are working – fixed 'paradox spin' – with a bass player in Girona that you allow us, precisely, this role of connectivity with Barcelona, through high speed. We're talking thirty-five minutes from Barcelona to Girona. That's very powerful. Which means a fourth clue, from that perspective. And with Reus he could pass exactly the same. And, paradoxically, the Government of the State, despite the fact that the Government of Catalonia has said that "the project builds us and pays us, they say no, that they do not want it to be done. It's just unaudited. This is a waste of first-class, first-class opportunities. This is the model we want to design. And then he reflected on the opportunities we have. Fixed's, there's a winning triplet, a virtuoso triangle, if I may, which is the port, the airport and the Free Zone. There are few territories in the world where this excellent proximity is produced. Take advantage of it! We're doing a joint strategic planning. And this is the last item I would like to share with you. The Government of the Government of Catalonia will take the lead in this direction; because either we do it or no one will do it for us. That is to say, we have already seen, with what we have explained before, that AENA, that the State, is not for this task, has other priorities. But we, as a country and as a government, have an obligation to think about what we want our infrastructure to be and how to give it all the way and all the power so that it has an economic, social and environmental return in our country. This is the compromise that is fixed the government of President Puigdemont, which is fixed the government of Catalonia. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.83.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. [[Interview with the Government on the future Catalan public bank and the Catalan Institute of Finance]] [[300-00076/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about the future Catalan public bank and the Catalan Institute of Finance, presented for the Popular Unity-Crying Constituent Candidature. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.84.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Currently, there are no territories that configure the Catalan Countries with a sovereign administrative structure that allows autonomous regulation of the country's financial system. That is why we understand that today, at a time when state structures are on the order of the day – we talked about it, we talked about it – and that they are necessary, we believe that we need to reopen and put the debate around the need for the creation of a Catalan public bank. We consider this to be fundamental, since it seems obvious to us that the new republic has to make clear its will to control Catalan finances with the will to be able to promote and direct investment under democratic control and with independence from the private bank, in the direction of generating an investment environment that serves to strengthen both social cohesion and to enhance the strength of the Catalan fabric with the vocation of novelism and cohesion of the Catalan society. And the financing system is an essential service for the economy and society. And the crisis of these past years, practically, has taught us what private management supposes: a social disaster that is demanding huge public aid to prevent its failure; an economic effort that is assuming to drain the public era and social and labor details; but that, under our understanding, will not prevent new crises, because you have been, and are, directed to save private banks and turn into private entities those that we may consider to be semi-public until a few years ago: the caixas de estalvi. Allow us a small reference to a Greek writer, Petros Màrkaris, in one of his novels – about quality of life – wrote: "The first eighty years are the difficult ones; then you die and you are very calm. So, well, now the first eighty years – he said – "they're not only difficult, but, at this point, they'll all be workable. And it's that despite the fact that we say that the Catalan economy has a low recovery today, that it's nothing more than a rebound effect after the Catalan economy has grown economically in the early years of the economic crisis, if we look at the evolution we'll see that since 2008 530,000 places of work have been destroyed. In this period, according to the data of gross domestic product by components of demand, published for the Idescat, GDP fell almost 5_percent between 2008 and 2013, starting in 2014 this recovery mentioned above. Between 2008 and 2013 the generality's public expenditure was 7,8_per_cent and the consumer expenditure of the lllars was reduced by 4_per_cent. Therefore, we could say that it is a little naive to say that the current macroeconomic data represent a recovery, when we are aware that we are certainly still a long way from recovering the pre-crisis economic situation and that in some respects, such as work, we will not even return to those times when precariousness was already dominant. It is in this direction that we understand that a public bank cannot only be an investment instrument, a tool for supporting the private sector similar to bodies and instruments that already exist, such as the same Catalan Institute of Finance. For us – and this is very important – as the public bank has a generalist view with the ability to guarantee the reversal, also thanks to the ability to capture the rangers and the rangers. If we look at the situation of public banking at an international level, as Vicenç Navarro explains, we will see that most of the world's countries have predominantly public banking systems: Germany would be one of the examples, but we would also find examples in France, a state with a large public banking sector, and even so we could highlight the United States, that one of the few states that did not notice the great recession was North Dakota, and it is the only state of the United States that has a public bank. The GDP of this state grew by 56_percent since the year 2000; the per capita income, by 43_percent; its wages, by 34_percent, and its state budget had a surplus of 1,300_million_dollars. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I know, Mr. Germà Bel, that we don't agree, but I'd appreciate it if you would allow the vice president to listen to me, apart from you. [[some applause]] , because it's a continuum..., systemically, in all interventions, that you spoke and speaking and speaking, not just in ours. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, as we have said, for us the consideration of the creation of a public bank went much further than the restructuring of the Catalan Institute of Finance that we approved in this direction from our own office in 2013. Also in this sense we would like to know exactly where we are. It is not, however, a question of calling what already exists a more attractive name, but rather of starting to think about creating a real structure financed with control and public management, with a clear vocation of public service in its broadest sense, from the promotion of productive investment. The public bank, therefore, must be ambitious, and there is no way to undermine the financial instruments of autonomy. It is clear to us that the proposal for the creation of a public bank is not intended to help to set aside a tool for the business interests of the public sector, but rather to put it, as we say, at the public service. Experience shows that these types of instruments only serve large companies end up with sources of financing for these large companies and, therefore, do not revert to society or to the common good. What we are proposing – and we are not the first or the last – is the creation of a public bank that responds to the need to generate a productive economy, the need to make an economic transformation and the need to introduce concepts of ethics and social justice into the financial system. Ethics in education and ethics in inversion. The proposal for a public bank is appropriate because it is possible to set aside a real alternative policy. The management of the company's employees in the banking entities must be directed towards the social needs, the development of high-quality and sufficient public services and the generation of employment. A public bank would enable, from our point of view, to promote another economic policy, focused on the creation of a sustainable economic structure in the medium term. In short, an economy that poses the common good and the common good... – the common good of good living, and not of the PP, even though Mr. Millo is now not there – which, as I said, places the common good and the common good at the center of our lives and at the center of the economy of the republic that we are building. I'll leave it here for now, and then we'll move on. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.85.0	The words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.86.0	Good day to everyone, another time. Neither Mr. Millo nor the head of his company, nor in this or in many other inquiries that are fanciful in this Parliament. Mrs. Reguant, I have some thoughts on public banking models in Europe, and I am also trying to make some of the questions you are asking about what the status of the Catalan Institute of Finance is at this time. In the first place, Europe operates more than a hundred public banks or public finance entities. As you said, there are very varied examples: Germany, France, etc. They are very heterogeneous for what they do to the property, to the purpose, to the legal nature and to the level of supervision to which they are submissive. There are no states, there are no regions and even in some countries there are no municipalities. For what it does, there are public banks of investments – promotional banks – that complement the financing and private investment; it is the case of the French BPI, the British Business Bank, the Regne Unit ; there are public banks focused on managing the treasury and the financing of public institutions: the Dutch BNG, the Local Finance Corporation, in France ; financial agencies that act on behalf of governments, such as the Finlombarda, in the case of the Lombardy, in Italy, in Milà, and even public banks that act as commercial banks, that make the competition directly to private banks collecting deposits – that is the case, you have a reference, at least indirectly, of the Landesbanken Germany. For what it does to the legal nature, there are banks created or public financial entities created by laws of parliament or companies mercantile with public participation. In the case of the ICF, you know that it is an entity created precisely for a law of this Parliament. For what it does to supervision, some are directly supervised by the European Central Bank – the largest of all –; others are supervised by central banks of their respective states, and others are not supervised. What are you doing to the ICF in particular, let's just say, huh? , the ICF has been the protagonist of a banking process, a banking process in this European Union that..., and of a banking union that formally withdrew in November 2014. There has been a debate in Europe about the role to be played by this European public bank: the model that must prevail, the regulatory framework under which it must operate and how it must coexist with the private bank. Each state, too, has its own options. What seems clear in any public credit institution that wants to operate in Europe is that it will have to agree with the demanding financial regulations that have developed in recent years, to a large extent, to answer many of the questions that you raised about bad functioning – the very bad functioning, in many cases – that the banking system has had, that the system has generally financed Europe in the past decade, as at the very least. And the examples here are well known, multiple, of all kinds: from the clausules alone, the swaps, various financial products, which in many cases have ended up in a real financial catastrophe, with the rescue of banks in the Spanish State, with problems also currently in the case of Italy, because the Italian private bank at these times cannot perceive or it is not clear that it can perceive public aids that in change have received banks deprived of other European states, as for example Germany; with difficulties also at this time in the case of Portugal, etcetera, eh? Therefore, there is all a very demanding new regulation, which is the result of this willingness to overcome the difficulties experienced in the past. The very poor management that has taken place in the past in many cases continues to generate a harsh controversy in the framework of the European institutions. What we want is, the Catalan Institute of Finance, to convert it into a public bank of investment, in the public bank of investment of Catalonia, because it can operate in a supervised, regulated and transparent way. The ICF created – we remembered a while ago – the year 1985. It is, therefore, a financial entity of those created by law. It is owned by the Government of Catalonia, it is owned by the Generality, and has practical effects it operates in image and appearance of a public bank, and in this sense facilitates access to financing of business fabric, especially peppers and entrepreneurs – not great enterprises, huh? , experts and entrepreneurs – in a complementary way with the private finance sector, with the aim of multiplying the resources available to these companies and to these entities. What's left is to approve the type of supervision that the ICF is to be submetted by the supervisors, who will depend to a good extent on the regulatory framework that I have set Europe for public credit entities. Meanwhile, we have already supported the ICF, by law, to the compliment of European financial legislation, we have endowed it with independent governance, we have adapted all its policies, its operating procedures and internal and external controls to the requirements of regulators and supervisors. We've banked it, starting with best practices, and now we're working to consolidate this banking internally. Our aim is that, from the principles of an ethical and sustainable bank, also sustainable finance, finance the business fabric of our country, strategic projects that contribute to the growth of the Catalan economy and the creation of employment. Like Catalonia's public investment bank, the ICF continues and will continue to work to facilitate access to finance to the business fabric, to entrepreneurs, who have often been hard hit, in this financial crisis to which you referred a while ago, for lack of credit for their activity. Concrete actions of the ICF. During the first quarter of this year it has financed 799 enterprises for an import of 307_million euros. 97_percent of the beneficiaries of this funding have been individuals and entrepreneurs. In the last five years the ICF has financed more than €12,500_million, also in a 97_per_cent of peppers and entrepreneurs, for an import of more than €3,700_million. In fact, during the period of the crisis, the ICF has developed, to the extent possible, an anticyclical role, covering the lack of access to the credit especially of these peppers and these entrepreneurs. The entity also collaborates with other departments or departments of the Government of Catalonia to create funding lines for collections or specific sectors. Recently it has renewed with Action a line of financing for corporate enterprise, endowed with 10_million euros; it has renewed with the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families a line of financing for the social and cooperative economy, with an increase this year of 80_percent of resources; with the Department of Agriculture it has renewed a line of financing for peppers in the primary sector, in the agricultural sector, and has set aside a new line of co-financing with a private bank, endowed with 40_million euros, for communities of residents. Also available to finance lines for companies and cultural entities created jointly with the Department of Culture, these lines, and especially with the ICC. In this type of sector finance line, the ICF provides resources, and the departments usually provide a share of the risk coverage of credit operations. At the end of the year, the ICF also plans to activate a new line of financing for peppers with €180_million, 90_million from European structural foundations, from the ERDF, which the ICF will complement with an additional 90_million. Therefore, at global level, the ICF will make available this year's companies more than €700 million in financing. The ICF, for what it does to its model, seeks resources at the market. Money does not come from public assumptions, it does not come from the Government of Catalonia. The ICF, also, in agreement with Eurostat, is a public financial institution, autonomous, outside the public administration framework, is not in the SEC framework. As a result of this condition, their activity and balance do not generate, add any deficit or debt to the Catalan Public Administration; this is linked to the financing search model outside of the Public Administration. At this time the entity has resources and solvency to develop its activity as a promotional bank, and this makes it impossible for the Generality, as the entity's owner, to provide capital. From the government we will continue to work to strengthen the ICF so that it can operate at all effects like a public bank of reversal, image and appearance of the public bank operating in Europe. And our goal is that it can act in a supervised, regulated and transparent way, and in this sense we are working with the European Association of Public Banks, of which the ICF is a part, and the European authorities, in order to define the regulatory framework. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] for public credit institutions, to clarify and facilitate all this management. In any case, about other things that can be done from this government and that can be done in the proper time in the field of credit, and public credit in particular, we can talk about in the turn of the reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.87.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's the word Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.88.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, it is clear that the ICF does not currently give credit to large companies. We've been critical of the public investment banks that exist and that we can... The ICF today can't even consider a public investment bank, it's in that impasse and in that situation where you can't consider everything and it works in this line. But for this very reason we say: "It is not a matter of making only and exclusively a public bank of reversal. We understand that we need to work to build a public bank that is in the service of the citizenry and that works also with the student of the citizenry and the citizenry, which, therefore, also fosters another type of reversal and relationship with the bank on the part of the citizenry. Therefore, here's where we say: "It's very good, to work with the ICF and to see where it goes, but we can't stay in this, and above all what we can't do is to transform or make up in a certain way the tools that we've had until now with autonomy and think this way or believe that we already have the public bank we want for the republic; as a matter of fact, we're discussing it. It is also obvious and we are glad that the Catalan Institute of Finance finally places or increases its credit to the social and solidary economy. It is obvious that an increase of 80_per_cent starts from the fact that when we come from practically zero it is very easy to increase an 80_per_cent. The wager of the Catalan Institute of Finance for the social and solidary economy is not that it was wonderful; it has advanced, and so now, obviously, therefore, it is easier, and that is why we can say that it is raising an 80_per_cent. At another moment we will also have a debate on the conception of the social and solidary economy, and what we mean by the social and solidary economy, but this is part of another debate, which I hope we can also have. What we are setting up, when we are talking about public banking and what we believe we should be building and starting to lay the foundations for the future republic, is to generate or facilitate the citizenry to live outside the speculative system, a public banking that is not dedicated to relying on a speculative market that has carried what it has carried, and that we have seen and have experienced perfectly what has happened, and that, moreover, we have to regret, today, for example, that today it is said that it is not necessary for the Spanish private bank, that it has enriched itself at the expense of the citizenry, that it is not necessary to pay for the solitary cell from before 2013. And that's sad. And this happened and went on to live dependent on a private bank, so as not to dispose, either to the State or to the Catalan level, of a public bank that is actually in the service of the citizen and not in the service of the markets or, in this concrete case, of the real estate and the construction. Therefore, what we say is that the public bank of the Republic should be governed and governed by a system of multiple democratic control in which both the structures of corporate governance and the democratic institutions of different levels participate, where also the municipalities, the vegueries, those spaces of democracy that we possess. It is not a matter of stabilising the bank, but of socialising the banking activity, transforming it into a radically democratic and social option, integrating it into a broader strategy of social transformation. In the later years, especially since the beginning of the crisis, of the bank crisis, and where the citizenry began to discover what a scam was like, the cooperative banks, the ethical banks have seen their options grow, as every day more people go, as every day they have more members, as every day they have more supporters. We facilitate a web where the ethical bank and the cooperative bank have a place together with a public bank, where we can dispose of tools that really apothecize for transformation and for a system where, as we said before, the common good and collectivity are in the center. And this can also be done not only by cooperative countries, but also by public institutions. And that is why we think that it is necessary that, beyond having tools to facilitate investment and product development, citizenship also has tools to be able to participate in economic life, to be able to decide and, at the same time, to be able to save in public spaces generated by public institutions. With all this, thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.89.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. The words of the vice president, Mr. Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.90.0	Well, good morning, another time; good morning, too, to the head of the ICF to accompany us. Various questions. The first, about the malfunction of the financial system that we have experienced in the past years, totally agree. And about the system's malfunction financing on many other occasions, too, of course. And of the concrete examples, I share with you, the clauses only, yesterday another time poses on the table and many others, eh? I remember, for example, when I was in the European Parliament, the whole question of the escalating of swaps, and how the types of interest and the most paying the people who had signed that type of contract, many of whom had endorsed me with their home, with their company, with their business, with their shop, and therefore a situation that brought a lot of people to ruin. And of models of this type, many, and which must be fought, and which, in fact, have been fought, surely, the last few years, surely not with enough force, surely not with enough efficiency, surely not with enough guarantees. And, therefore, in this sense, we are delighted to "squeeze even more in this sense. Second thought. Public banks cannot have many menus, and social participation and democratic participation in financial entities cannot have many menus, even in those that are owned and managed entirely privately. And, therefore, also open to considering all possible models. You, too, at the beginning of your intervention, posed – I understand – such as the German case or the case of some of the states of the United States; certainly, it is said, Germany is a country in which social participation and democratic participation, and often also public participation, in entities of private ownership and private management is a very important participation. And, in fact, this is a model of debate that has been going on for decades in what the French President De Gaulle called popular capitalism. Therefore, there are many models; we are always interested in the theoretical analysis of all of them and also in the possible practical applications of all of them. Then, too, a reflection, which seems to me obliged. At these times, many of the funded entities survive and many of the public administrations survive strongly linked to the funded entities through the debt-purchase mechanisms, and, therefore, to the financing of the deficits, among other things, because there is a giant money supply never seen in the markets: 80,000_million euros each month for the European Central Bank. And if it weren't for that, there wouldn't be a public debt purchase by the financial entities, by the debts that many of the public administrations emit, and there wouldn't be any funding for the deficits that would help to try to generate countercyclical policies and take social measures, which are especially urgent at this time. And, therefore, that the twinning of this reality is of enormous complexity, among other things, because it implies that, paradoxically or not, it may at least seem paradoxically, precisely this Georgian monetary offer and without historical precedents, for one band, helps to hold these financial entities and, for the other, reduces the margins of business that hold these financial entities putting them very often in a very complicated situation of sustainability of the business, because the types of interest are low and in many cases they are type of negative interest. And, therefore, also remember, in this sense and in the extremely opposed case, that there have been that, precisely because they have financial credibility, they are able to finance themselves through public debt issues because they get more money than they need to return later. And that, therefore, the model is a model that continues to hold, presenting uncertainties, that continues to present difficulties, that continues to present enormous diversity and that, in any case, certainly corresponds to all of us seeking the formulas of sociability, socialization, democratic participation, democratic controls to the financial entities and in the conjunction of our economy, are also aware that the economy, apart from the considerations of democratic character, has some systems of functioning that, if it is violent, are impossible to sustain by a great deal of public will that we have at the end. And for example, in this sense, there have not been many. Also agree with you that very often it is not a matter of stalemating, is it not? , but it is a matter of guaranteeing this social participation and these democratic controls, because, certainly, there have been many bad examples and catastrophic examples with absolutely privatized models, and therefore there has been a fundamental search for the best combination and the best blend of everything, knowing that, moreover, this changes over time and that very often the true liberals are the best allies of those who have a more social vocation, in the sense that at least they understand that public participation in the system can be an instrument, and then it is an instrument, or it should be an instrument, to guarantee a major competition in merit. And since free competition and non-entry barriers in markets, the non-existence of entry barriers in markets can be a useful tool – I finish – so let's work there, work there with all the enthusiasm and with all the good will of the world. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.91.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the Tax Agency of Catalonia]] [[302-00058/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the Tax Agency of Catalonia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.92.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, vice president, deputies, deputies. Well, we present this motion after the inquiry that, as I recall, we did to Vice President Junqueras about the future of the tax agency and some of the functions that at these times do not develop the agency, that develop other entities, such as liquidating offices, for example, or the same state agency, on account of..., functions on behalf of the Tax Agency of Catalonia. We wanted to do it because we were familiar with the media, with different announcements and also with announcements made by the vice president, who wanted, therefore, to recover these functions, and therefore from the agency it is possible to develop. In the case of the functions of the tax executive, we were not so concerned, because it is not a great quantity of work that can not take over the tax agency, but in the case of the liquidating offices, where there are three hundred workers who manage, collect the taxes of estates, assets, that is, all the taxes given at these times by the Generalitat de Catalunya. So, here we were worried, too, because it was announced, therefore, the denunciation of the agreements between the same agency and the registrars of the property and liquidating offices. And, therefore, we believe that we should bring the debate to Parliament, which should achieve some of the government's commitments, not to do this, that they are objectives that the Socialist Group can share, but to guarantee some of the things in the process that seem important to us, such as informing the workers of these offices, informing the registrars of the government's will, of what is the government's will in relation to these functions that they develop, and, obviously, therefore, being able to create some work organisation, some commission, some group working on this territorial deployment of the tasks that they develop at these times. It seems to us that the experience, the expert, the knowledge that the workers of the offices have almost irremovable that we have with them, not because they tell us what we have to do, but because precisely from their experience, from their day to day, they can also help the Generality define who they are, therefore, the organization and the territorial deployment that must be made of the same agency and of the assumption of the competitions that at these times they make of the management of some taxes. It seemed to us that it was the most reasonable. And so, basically, our young lady was trying to guarantee these two things. And, obviously, therefore, that of these three hundred places of work..., which we know cannot be integrated into the tax agency in an automatic way, but at the very least that we are looking to guarantee as much as possible these places of work, their tasks, their conditions. This was basically the size and importance of the movement, beyond asking the government for information about the territorial deployment plan, about the future of the agency, which seems to us that the media are often more informed than the Parliament, and we believe that this is the room where it is to come to explain, so you are as important as the future of the agency, this particular history of what the vice president is talking about, which is more to be and will surely be the paler face, or should be, of a future independent state, isn't it? Therefore, this is the bulk of our young man, a young man who asks precisely these very clear elements: that we do not denounce the advisability until we have clear who the solution is and how the agency will manage it; that we work with the workers of the offices, that they have experience and the expert, the professionalism and the day-to-day and the knowledge about how they manage and develop these functions; that we also work with them how to guarantee the jobs, how to ensure, as much as possible, these jobs and conditions, and inform, informing Parliament, that it is who, through the Committee on Economics, the future of the agency and how it was taking on these functions. I have to say that I have rejected on behalf of Congresswoman Maria Senserrich, so all the facilities to try to reach the maximum agreement. I also have to say that the first papers presented to us together for the Yes were not acceptable, to say it in one way or another. [[the speaker laughs]] And I must say, therefore, that Maria Senserrich's waist has made it possible for us to reach an agreement; and, at the very least, that we can achieve these very small things that seem to me to be very important, especially for those people who at these times develop these functions, and that today, moreover, a representation of them accompany us, and that they want to thank the patience they have with us, because they really have a lot of patience with us, because sometimes they cost us a lot – at a great cost – to respond to their fears, their concerns and a little, sometimes also, their hopes, right? Therefore, I would particularly like to thank Mrs Senserrich for the belt she has held and for her ability to reach agreements. When it's negotiated, you never have the cent of what you want, but I think we guarantee enough of the objectives that I explained to the heart of my intervention. Obviously, I would also like to thank the rest of the groups that have made papers, to Mr Coscubala and to Mrs Albiach, of Catalonia Yes, she is; also to Mrs Cuevas, of the People's Party, who have also been working on incorporating her papers into some transactions, and, therefore, to them I would also like to appreciate the predisposition above all, to arrive at a minimum common denominator that allows us to move forward and have more than we had a_month ago, which seems to me to be our objective, and I hope that we can achieve it with the approval of this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.93.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. To defend the papers presented, has the word María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.94.0	Thank you, President. Well, it is legitimate for the Government of the Generalitat to want to assume the collection and management of the taxes assigned by the State, the question is why and how it is intended to do so. If the Catalan tax agency is able within as short a time as it intends to assume this service with sufficient quality and at a lower cost. The constitutional principle of decentralization that legitimises and protects these tax powers responds to the idea that public services can be better provided if they are closer to the citizen, and everything and that the current network of liquidating offices is already decentralized, capillary and close, is not a problem of legitimacy what we have here, but of whether the proposed change better guarantees the general interest of Catalans, and whether the efficiency and effectiveness in the management of these taxes is guaranteed by change. And it is getting into these issues when the explanations of the other day of the Vice-President were very disturbing to us. The Government, one month after dismantling the network of liquidating offices, is only sure and clear that it is willing to do so. The reason: because he wants to get the state administration out of Catalonia by setting up a state structure. And how it doesn't materialize. Mantras and vaguenesses are repeated to us: "It is going to be incorporated into the current staff. How many and under what conditions are not said, and in the end, recognizing that there are many outstanding issues, we are asked to trust. Groucho Marx said politics is the art of searching for problems, finding them, making a false diagnosis and then applying the wrong remedies. I'm sorry for the parallelism. First, there is no objective problem. The liquidation of taxes transferred through the liquidation offices has been taking place for thirty years with very positive results in terms of management and collection. Even the Government has signed with these offices other agreements for documentation submitted to the ATC. The service is performed in perfect harmony, and at a cost proportional to revenues, and everything controlled by the Generalitat. The offices carry out a capillary and close to the citizen, have expert, specialized staff, in continuous training, and guarantee fair and equal tax treatment, because all files are reviewed, and this guarantees that the citizen pays what he or she has, and no one pays anything more or less than what he or she has, thus increasing tax revenues and combating fraud. Free consultations are also provided, which save the citizen time and money, and face-to-face care is guaranteed in municipalities where a private network would not arrive under strictly economic criteria, and neither, surely, would the ATC offices arrive. Hard to put all this together in a viable and cheaper alternative. In short, there is no objective problem today. However, the Government has sought and has been able to find a problem, an identity problem or a political project, the very existence of these liquidation offices. Because you want to be improperly a state and for this you are about to create us all a problem that we do not have, that something that is important and that works well stop doing what to be replaced we do not yet know why, how or at what cost. Follow the diagnosis, wrong for naive. We are reasoned that if the liquidation offices cost 25_million and earn money, the Generalitat can save up to 25_million and keep the margin. Nothing is said about the viability, cost, professionalism of that alternative tax structure – that, yes, it would be proper – nothing of an explicit, detailed plan, with economic memory, viable and minimally convincing. As a warning that the issue is not so easy, we have the cases of other communities, such as Madrid or Extremadura, who tried and turned back; or like Canarias, who is in it, with problems, with falls of income, hundreds of thousands of files paralyzed and also thinking about turning back; or like Balearics, who has failed and is already going for the second attempt. Finally, we are being offered a remedy that only because of hasty and reckless seems to us to be wrong: to denounce the agreement within a month, dismantling a tax management network that works, which is supporting the ATC, which provides a secure income to the Generalitat, which serves the citizen with quality, professionalism and capillary and does not present to us clearly a justified, viable and equivalent alternative. In short, by trusting the Government, as we are asked, we run the risk of collaborating with something that works to stop doing so, we create problems where there are no problems, putting at risk a very large part of the revenue of the Generalitat, tax justice and embarking on an unwarranted or quantified expansion of an administrative structure that is surely going to be more expensive and for which there is not even a budget allocation. We believe that it is not mandatory for all of us to give good consideration to the assessment that Groucho Marx made of politics, and we believe that things must be done with rigour, without haste, with transparency and with common sense. We believe that dialogue with the people concerned and suspension of the denunciation of the convention should take place until a clear, viable and satisfactory approach is reached for the general interest, which does not need to create state structures. Finally, I would like to ask the spokesman of the PSC to value it – I make it in voice, the request – to incorporate our amendment to point 8 that the government's plan include the economic memory and the corresponding budget allocation in the motion we are going to vote on. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.95.0	Thank you, Mrs García Cuevas. Then there's the word "Jessica Albiach", by Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.96.0	Well, good morning to everyone and a special greeting to the workers' and workers' companies of the liquidating offices that accompany us here today. Today we are talking about the liquidating offices that for the convenient signed in 2012 between the Tax Agency of Catalonia and the registrars of the property take charge of the management, the liquidation and the collection of taxes handed over to the Generalitat, a convention that is effective until October 2017 and that gives work to three-hundred people, three-hundred professionals that, it is also said, take up twice as much as it is for the tax agency. We know that the Catalonia Tax Agency will assume these functions, which until now have been carried out by the liquidating offices. In fact, in the previous plenary, Mr Junqueras – he was already going..., seriously, he was going to talk about it – commented to us: "We understand that it is not right to award a service with a billing volume of 27_million euros to private companies with very high profit margins that never proceed to develop a public competition or allow free competition. And obviously, as it couldn't be any other way, we agree. But he also said: "We are in front of an environment where privatization and outsourcing is not, in our view, politically appropriate, and we again agree. In fact, we would already like this attitude to be confined to all areas of the Administration, as well as to health care. What we don't agree with, what Mr Junqueras said, is that..., with the attitude they have had with this subject, because, unfortunately, they claim to rely on the professionals who are now developing these functions at the fifty-three liquidation offices, which they don't tell us is neither how nor when. And if we see the things you've presented, it's still less clear to us. You pretended to inform consummated parties, not to concretely allow the period of expiration of the agreement to run out and, once more, not to give any compromises neither of calendars nor of resources, which already begins to be a topic in the papers presented by Junts per el Si. We had the feeling that the supposed government of the dialog did not want to negotiate and that the supposed government of transparency did not want to inform with character the main affected and affected, that they are the workers of the liquidating offices. But, well, it seems that they have finally done something, they have gone right and, in fact, we are not very happy, because, as Mrs.Alicia Romero said, it is not a matter of achieving everything, if it is not possible, but at least trying to improve and guarantee the job situation of these workers. And, finally, thank Congresswoman Romero for the text, which ours – the truth is that we share it in the cent_per_cent–, and only say that we have added a couple of items to make it clear that the terms of the agreement were to be exhausted, and that we had to count on the workers and the workers at the time of seeking a negotiated solution and guaranteeing their working rights. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.97.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. The words of Mr Maria Senserrich, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.98.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, well, I add to Mrs Romero's thanks, to begin with, for two questions. First, to bring this situation to the House, therefore, that many of the Members did not know and that, therefore, they could know and know what solutions we would give to it, and the good understanding of this agreement. Because it's true that we did make some papers, but our intention was to compromise to go further and power, so to arrive at the solution that I think today will be positive and excellent for this collection and, obviously, for all of us, for the work we are doing here, in the Parliament of Catalonia. I would also like to add to the thanks to the rest of the Members – also – for the effort they have all made, I understand, therefore, for this shared consensus. I would like to explain to you, for this reason, a little bit the context of this motion. I know that the previous Members have done this, but I think some aspects... that we can structure them to know a little more about what we're talking about. The first is that, in the current model, there are three levels of tax administration. One would be the State Tax Administration Agency, which we all know; the Catalonia Tax Agency, which we also know, and the tax services of local entities, for example, therefore, the deputies, or some municipalities or some regional councils. In this case, basically, we focus on the work done by the Catalonia Tax Agency, which is basically to manage, liquidate, inspect and recapitulate the generality's own taxes and also the state's taxes handed over in full to the generality. And the main source of entry, obviously, is the inheritance and donation tax and the transfer tax on assets and documented legal acts. But this job, it does, doesn't it? The concrete management of this work is done by the liquidating offices, which are the ones that lead us to debate this situation that we have known and that we have in plenary session today. So, these are the liquidating offices – as Mrs. Albiach has said, there are fifty-three offices, more than three hundred workers – and that, basically, there is a deal, which is paid for this service. And this, therefore, is regulated in an agreement, it is signed and it is granted thus, and there are some workers who give a service of proximity, attention to the customer; every day they put their knowledge in value to the service of the citizens, and so also, from all around, of what it has moved: from lawyers, notaries, depatxos, gestures, etc.; because they go further, not only from the contributor. We talk about professionals with experience, with a strong appeal to the territory and very close. What we are from the regions, which we are a great majority of this Parliament of Catalonia, we know, because in our capitals, in most cities, there are. And he's a very good servant. Now, we can't make it clear that the situation of the agreement with the registrars, one day or another, had to evolve, had to move forward, and that's where we find ourselves now. But I do so with guarantees, obviously: guarantees to taxpayers, who are the first to be affected, directly, that this must go well, must go very well; guarantees of a good service; guarantees of territorial balance, because, where it is visible, there must have been equal opportunities for all Catalans and Catalans, and above all, that is one of the issues we are discussing today, the guarantees of who does this service, and they must be the best professional, the best. And that's why we're making a statement in which we've agreed that this committee believes that there's a debate between workers and the generality, so that we can resolve the situation and see who's the best solution for all sides. Therefore, we are happy with this, concretely, because we believe that it will lead us, therefore, to find a majority solution. And how do we do it? We've got to do it right. We have to do very well. In this we agree, we also share it; the government obviously shares it, Mr. Junquera said it the other day, and the group of Junts for Yes also shares it. That is why we need to have this plan of deployment of the Catalan Tax Agency that the Government is working on, and that it has bought itself and with this young man we will also commit them to come and explain it here, in the Parliament, also explained it to the territory and also explained it to the workers affected. I'm telling you, we have to do well to make it possible, with all the information on the table, with consent, with the will to build a own herd that overcomes the facsimile, inefficient Spanish model in order to have a model of proximity, efficient, effective, prepared for the challenge of the immediate future. And let me finish with a phrase from a poet who I think inspires a lot of the consensus that we got today and maybe from this good roll, right? "People will forget what you said, what you did, but they will never forget how you made them feel. Therefore, we need to speak, speak, speak, listen, listen, listen and, ultimately, dialogue to reach a consensus all together. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.99.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Senserrich. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.100.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, Members, Members of Parliament, workers in the liquidating offices, this motion, tabled by the Socialist Group and to which we will support, deals primarily with the liquidating offices, but we want to make clear from the very beginning something that I believe is partly different from each and every one of the parties present here. We want to make it clear that the liquidation offices are an integral part of the Tax Agency of Catalonia. Precisely, not to consider this is what is leading the government and some parties to the error of thinking that the development of the tax agency involves transferring the management of the liquidating offices to the managing offices of the Tax Agency of Catalonia. Look, that mistake, combined with the phantasmagorical idea of creating a tax agency in Catalonia as a state structure, is what is leading the independence government, precisely, to the idea of abolishing the liquidation offices, even if that means reducing the efficiency, efficiency and proximity of the Catalan tax system and avoiding..., and sending – pardon – also, as a result, three hundred skilled workers to unemployment, precisely, losing jobs that are strictly necessary. Look, this is..., and we are faced with a management model that comes from afar: the liquidation offices have been in charge of the property registrars for one hundred and fifty years; since 83, the liquidation offices have been managing all of the inheritance and donation taxes and those of documented legal acts. Look, we support them not because of their antiquity, but because of their effectiveness and flexibility. There are few examples, and I say this sincerely, of effective and flexible management such as that offered by the liquidation offices. If they didn't work, if they weren't really effective, believe me, we would be the first to ask for their replacement or to ask for their modification. But we defend it, as I said, because we are facing an excellent model of efficiency and flexibility. It is a model that checks each and every one – each and every one – of the documents presented, eh? It is verified that each and every one of them complies with the valuation rules and rules established by the Catalan Tax Agency. I don't have to say that in this way there is a greater collection and a very clear deterrent effect, huh? , to avoid fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, the result – the result – is that the liquidation offices have carried out 430,000 parallel liquidations. It has amounted to 650_millions of revenue compared to the managing offices, which, in the same period and with the same number of documents approximately, have carried out only 44,000, and the collection fruit of that has been of 334_millions_of_euros. Look, we're talking about 10 times as many parallel settlements as the tax agency's management offices. Members of Parliament, the elimination of this model, far from improving efficiency, will lead to an increase in management and verification costs; an increase in litigation. It will therefore amount to damage to the Generalitat's archives and budget; it will therefore amount to damage to the citizens, which the Registrars of Catalonia amount to EUR 100 million each year. If we wanted to benefit the Catalans, we would not eliminate the liquidation offices, on the contrary: we would maintain them and guarantee the maintenance of the 300 jobs. But we should do a lot more. At the very least, we should extend the universal verification system for each and every document to the rest of the tax agency's management offices. If this measure had been implemented in the period 2008-2012, it would have meant an increase in revenue of EUR 300 million for the Generalitat. Don't you think it's worth keeping up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.101.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Next is the words of Mrs Pilar Castilejo, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.102.0	Thank you. Good morning, President. Members, representatives of the workers who are accompanying us today, are convinced that in order to get this young man approved we have started from broad consensus, so it must be easy to reach agreement as well. Consensus, of a band, for the deployment of the Catalan tax agency and the recovery of those functions that were delegated at its time to the Spanish tax agency, because it has been a long time that we charge to the State a portion that is reliant on our skills and at this time of transit, that some qualify as exceptional, and we understand that as we do not plan to take over all the taxes that are paid to our country, we need this tax agency to grow, that it strengthens, that it develops at most all its skills, that we already have, but that we are not exercising at this time, so that it does the executive way of the payments as to the liquidation of the taxes, that we do not exercise at this time, so that it does the executive way of the liquidation of the liabilities as to the liquidation of the taxes, and that they are delegated to the government in partial form. We also have a broad consensus to develop this new territorial model of the agency, which ultimately involves the opening of new offices over the territory to gain proximity with taxpayers, to gain efficiency, to give a better service, and which allows the government to take the skills that are now developing the property registers. We also have consent, and this is the main source, the main source of which we have to agree with this young man, for which he does the will to count with the professionals who are developing these functions today. We know that his experience, that his professionalism is a guarantee that this momentum that we believe is essential will succeed. Corresponds to us, so – and we agree with ‘what', we also seek this agreement with ‘how'. One that allows us, in one band, to develop the skills of the agency and its territorial model to the maximum, and that also allows us to put in value the people who now guarantee these tasks from the liquidating offices. And that, we think it's also important to say, to do all this running away from the process. Because we are determined to take these steps forward in strengthening the state structures and we cannot extend their execution forever in time. And we think it's important to stress it, because we're convinced that putting it at hand to everything that allows us to move on to a break with the State has become the object of some of the groups that preceded us in this forum. But let's go back to the people, who was the one this young man was from. It is imperative to count with all of them, essential that they are informed, that they know the tapes and the calendars, essential that we facilitate their integration into the public service, because counting with these people – we have already said – is the guarantee of the success of the development of the agency and its territorial model in the terms laid down by the Government. But it is also essential that we have a plan to do it, that we put black on white these yarns and calendars of what we are talking about. Therefore, according to the fact that we denounce the agreement, we are determined to do so, and it is also important that we condition it to have developed this plan. It is imperative that we call the workers, that we inform them as much as possible. We put people in front of us, explain not just all the information we have at these times, but also how important they are to us and to bring our project forward, and eliminate unnecessary anxiety and uncertainty. We work together with the workers' representatives on this committee that the motion proposed to create and seek consensus on the work place coverage processes. For which the motion on informing the local world speaks, we agree with informing the local world, but we do not believe that through the formations these municipalists follow the most appropriate way of doing so and therefore we will not vote in favour of this point. And what we don't see in the way is this tax consort with the administration's state agency what the last point is talking about and, therefore, we will vote against it. With what we do agree is to inform the Economic and Historical Commission as much of this integration as of the rest of the agency's future plans, as we thought its development, as we thought it was muscular... We think this is important because to become a state we have to be able to manage the taxes that we all pay the citizens. And the CUP is determined, in this; on the way to build ways to help us move forward with the breakup with the State we will always find ourselves there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.103.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Castilejo. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.104.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'll be very brief. I have already announced to the first intervention that I have made of the majority of transactions that we have made with the Group of Joints for the Yes, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the People's Party to try, as I said, therefore, to find a minimum common denominator that allows us to guarantee two things: u, that we do not denounce the agreement until we have a job, more or less dialogued, informed, agreed with the Government and with the workers of the liquidating offices, and two, that we will therefore aim to guarantee as much as possible the places of work that at these times are developing the people who are at the offices. We believe that this somehow guarantees with these transactions and with this reason that we approve today. As I said before, always, our initial proposal was more ambitious than it was finally approved, but obviously, in a negotiation, we must give in and believe that, as we guarantee these minimums and allow and force, in some way, the government that follows with the workers and works this proposal and this plan, we believe that it remains sufficiently guaranteed. She finally made a proposal in her voice to add this part of the economic memory of the deployment plan. I wanted to make him an alternative proposal, which is not to vote on it, but you also gave me out of this chamber that would be interesting to make the representatives of the liquidating offices and the register compare to the Economic Commission – to us it seems like a good proposal and I think we can push it – and perhaps, within this framework, to the Economic Commission we can approve, perhaps, or present a motion for a resolution in which we concretely want to incorporate this plan of deployment: it gives the economic memory, we can also put the work places on this plan, etc. I think we can work on it a little more, because I was, therefore, more concrete, and in a nearby economic committee, debate it and, if they get out, approve it. So, maybe it's not the one that satisfies him the most, but I think that's also more complete. And lastly, to say that – although it seems that this young man will be approved, for the interventions that have been made by the groups – we must tell the government that we will be very loving, because it is not the first time that we approve of something and then it is not complete. This is terrible – this is terrible – not just for the representatives of the people we are here, but also for the people we represent, isn't it? , that feel totally, therefore, helpless before situations of this type. Therefore, Vice-President, we would be very fond of you to complete what this young man says, to convene the Labour Commission, to meet with the workers, to do a joint job to take advantage of your knowledge and expertise, and to try as much as possible, so to guarantee a job place, a good job for girls, and, therefore, that the tax agency can develop its tasks in the best possible way, and also with the best possible professional skills. We'll be loving, we'll follow it, and we'll hope that we don't give ourselves, you, reason why we have to chase him too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.105.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Call it a vote. [[Pilar Castilejo Medina asks to speak.]] Lady Castilejo. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.106.0	Now. Yes, we wanted to ask for a separate vote on point number 4 and point number 6. [[María José García Cuevas asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.107.0	Mrs. García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.108.0	President, thank you. We wanted to vote separately on point 6. I do not know whether it is understood from what Mrs Castillejo has said that they are voted separately from the rest of the motion, either together or separately. Separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.109.0	Okay. [[Long break.]] A separate vote was requested on point 4 and point 6. Therefore, we will vote first on point 4, and then on point 6, and after the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes to 70, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the Catalonia Tax Agency was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] The session is suspected up to two-quarters of four. [[The session is suspected to be three-quarters of a half-and-five-minute and two-quarters of a quarter of a quarter late. She chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who are assisted by the Secretaries-General in office, the Major and the Frenchc Pau and Vall.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.110.0	It's part of the session. Too late to all and so to all. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the planned initiatives before the withdrawal of the Project of Law of Presuppositions of the Government of Catalonia for 2016 and of the Project of Law of Tax, Administrative, Financial and Public Sector Measures]] [[302-00059/11]] The new item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on the planned initiatives before the withdrawal of the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2016 and of the draft law of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.111.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, good afternoon and excuse the pests. The motion that presents Catalonia Yes, it can have two clear objectives: first, to present proposals, solutions to address the situation of social emergence that sees many people before the conflict provoked by the incompetence of a government that has been unable to approve its first assumptions. Secondly, to address the need for fiscal reform that Catalonia needs in order to significantly increase its fiscal capacity and thus be able to provide certain social services, determined needs that today are not guaranteed. Let's go to Pam, do you know what this debate is about? The government, after not having approved the assumptions, insists on an idea, that it is possible to lose some of the major resources that will enter Catalonia during 2016, as a result of the non-approval of these assumptions. We have already said on many occasions that this is a mistake, a lie, a falsehood; in short, that it does not correspond to reality. And what we're claiming is that this chamber is mandated to the Government to use the instruments available to the Public Finance Act of the Generality, and also to the presuppositional prorogation to deal with this situation and to take advantage of these resources that will come into play during 2016. Let me make one thing clear: all the resources that will be made available during 2016 can be used up to the last euro, all of them, and oriented towards these social policies; only with two limitations and only with two prohibitions. A ban is that they cannot be used to increase investments. No problem, because I assume you remember that the investments planned for 2016 were lower than planned for 2015. And the limitations? That it can only be spent on what is involved and what to spend-it needs a presuppositional credit, which is derived from or from the same Law of Presuppositions, extended 2015 for this 2016, or from the use of credit modification mechanisms, through the transfer of credits for one side or from the generation of credits for another. I know, counselor, that you know perfectly well that this can be done, but a little to stir up the debate in the chamber..., examples: transfer of credits. With the assumption of 2015, today extended, there are 1,600, almost 1,700_million destined for interest of the debt. Tell the government of the generality that they'll only get half. So, well, the other 860s can be used perfectly to transfer credit and dedicate them to social policies. That's what's always going on and what's going on this year. According to the question, the government says that it has predicted an increase in transfers from the State, which seems to be coming, and an increase in tax receipts for props or cedits. So, well, this major input, which is not predicted in the 2015 assumptions and which it will have, can be used perfectly. What? Through the generation of credits. Look, the most obvious argument that this can be done is that during the first six months it was done. The other day I gave them the example of the Any Ramon Llull, which is being done, but I want to give them another example. At this time, mechanisms have already been approved for the generation of credits to us by import of 1_million euros, to finance policies for the promotion of Catalan culture abroad. Now we're not discussing whether this is the priority or not, now what we're discussing is what can be done, and it's done, through these mechanisms. So, please, the government doesn't have an alibi, and the best way it doesn't have an alibi is that you, all the groups in the chamber, please, vote on this layout to give it to the government, instruments, and remove alibis. Second question. We plan everything that makes reference to the subject of the indispensable tax reform: the IRPF's Catalan tram; inheritance and donation tax, which has tax benefits per import of 980_million euros – I want to remember –; reform of the property tax; green taxation. In this sense, we believe that it is absolutely essential that this Parliament tackles fiscal reforms that enable the Government of Catalonia to provide more resources for fiscal policies. It is essential, because it cannot continue to say that there are no resources and then do not use the skills they have for this matter. I know that we all don't agree on the content of this tax reform, but I hope that we all agree that the skills that are out of the question are out of the question, and the fiscal capacity that is out of the question is out of the question. Finally, you have seen that we also incorporate a separate section on the subject of casino taxation. I don't think I can explain any more. It seems that here the investments that can be made are if the costs of urbanization are paid by another – the public sector –, if the wages are low and if it turns out that there has been defiscalization of the benefits. Going from 55 to 10_per_cent the tax treatment of casinos seems to me a barbarity, honestly. Catalunya shouldn't be the European casino destination. And, from this point of view, what we suggest is to return to the initial situation: repeal, therefore, this departure from the law approved at its time and thus allow a greater collection of taxes for this way, and therefore devote them to fiscal policies. Well, counselor, I hope I convinced you this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.112.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.113.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Well, therefore, the Socialist Group shares with 99_per_cent the motion presented by the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot. In fact, we've made a little mistake because, as I said, we share the first part about the presuppositional prorogation... I might add that it's a little sad that we have to bring a young lady who says something the government can already do; but well, it seems... like the counselor, who isn't there today, or who isn't there now, but he already told us the other day that it couldn't be done. We have also considered very well the decree of extension, the decree of the law, and we believe that also, reading the law that accompanied the assumptions of the year 2015, can make generations of credence. I said the law expressly. For some themes, for some aspects, but for those who make reference to social emergence, to the themes of salvation, education, clearly, it is possible to use a generation of credit through more entries to be able to carry out these types of policies. So, we don't understand how much we're going to put black on white on something that the government can already do and that, besides, it can do that because it says it's a law that approved it itself, just a little more than a year ago, right? So, she's a little surreal, all folded up. But, well, we fully share what is said about the presuppositional extension and about what allows the extension and then, it is true, the tax reform that is not above, and that we all ask and that we have been approving or presenting in different motions and resolutions. We share the view that a reform of the inheritance tax is needed. We've been asking for this for a long time. I don't know here what the majority group gathering the government will do, because there have always been different visions about this, but it seems that ultimately it will gain that of not touching anything, say, and that we don't try to get more tickets by changing the inheritance tax, which still has a lot of margin to run. Nor will they change the property tax; the IRPF, neither, after that kind of debate we held in the media about this tax, nor the environmental, right? To us, it seems that it is a mistake, that at these times we could... – although we do not have an approved presuppositional law, some assumptions –, we could be reforming some taxes, resulting in more tickets, but it seems that the government, therefore, is not for the work. Let's see if he gives us any surprises today and approves some of the points that Congressman Coscubiala presents. For another band, we have presented a small piece, which refers to the analysis of the tax benefits of those who have the ability and competence of the Generality. These tax benefits add up to around..., according to the documents also of the Generality, around 4,000_million euros. We already imagine – and we believe it is, well – that all tax benefits cannot be eliminated, but those that are most regressive. If we eliminate them, we could also enter a few more resources than we have now, so, for tax benefits, it's lost, isn't it? And, therefore, here we also have a line to open, that we have been telling the government for a long time, that we don't understand why it doesn't, because in the end, analyzing, studying the tax benefits and eliminating the lowest returns is quite simple and simple and that we believe, therefore, that it is quite fair, among other things. So, this is what we're doing, let's hope the Catalonian Group does. And, as I said, so, if you don't change the text a lot, we'll give it full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.114.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.115.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, non-government, in this motion for a resolution by Mr Coscubiela, the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, there are two elements, aren't there? One, directly related to the question, which is related to the government's fiscal policy and what can or cannot be done in the current circumstances, and the other, refers to the fiscal policies proposed by the Catalonian Group Yes, it is. And, therefore, at the time of saying in what percentage we can agree with Catalonia Yes, it is possible to say, at the time of the motion, in 25_per_cent, to the cent_per_cent in relation to what can or cannot be done with extended assumptions and in a zero_per_cent in relation to the fiscal policy proposed by the Catalonia Group Yes, it is Pot. And with regard to presuppositionary policy and what can or cannot be done with extended assumptions, we fully agree. Why? Home, therefore, because the government, what it has to do is take on its responsibilities; and, responsibility, basically, it has the fact that there is no way to approve assumptions, even though, in principle, it had a majority of parliaments that they had to make it easier for them to approve those assumptions. What I can't expect from the government is to blame the opposition for not having assumptions. If the government doesn't have assumptions, it's because the majority of the parliament that had to guarantee them the assumptions, they didn't support it. And that, in any case, will be the responsibility of the government, throughout its abyss, and the opposition cannot be held responsible for it. Now, the consequences of having an extended premise exist, but they are not, nor are they, those that the government claims to follow, to stage some responsibilities of the rest of parliamentary groups that, in reality, correspond to the same government – which now enters. In this sense, man, the same decree for the extension of assumptions already establishes conditions, but it also establishes conditions to be able to make presuppositional amendments to the Law of Public Finance of Catalonia and, concretely, article 39. And, in this sense, there was the offer of the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot, but there is also the offer of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, that the Government, if it has difficulties to make assumptions changes, brings them to Parliament and we talk about it – and we talk about it –; we do not have to talk about possible assumptions. And, in this sense, to say them, in relation to those parties that mean lower expenses in relation to the 2015 exercise, we are convinced that there is absolutely no problem with making assumptions changes that mean the use of these lower expenses. Finally, we are convinced that in those parties that suppose major entries, the result of major transfers – no major recaptancy, but major transfers – there can also be the presuppositional changes. And, obviously, there will be limitations to what it does to the investments, littles, that is, proportional to the amount of investments that is expected to be made in the project of assumptions, that were littles. And it is also possible that there are limitations at the time of using resources from major entrances, the result of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling; but in any case, I believe that it is also worth taking advantage of, so, for example, to improve the Generality's treasury and to improve the time of payment to providers, which is also a social policy; because, in the end, public service providers – many of them social services – also have workers, and also need funding and need liquidity. And neither did the people that the government of the generality pay them with the long terms that at these times is paying to the provider. Therefore, on the part of our parliamentary group we will support point 1, even though we have called for the withdrawal or deletion of that paragraph which refers to having, already, a defensive attitude towards the Government of the State in relation to justifying the reason for these presuppositional changes. They don't think it's necessary. In fact, the overrun of the expense relief has passed by 2015, and this also did not mean that it was even more difficult to fill the deficit, which is not extraordinary either. And what we can't agree with is Catalonia's fiscal policy. Yes, it's Pot. You are in favour of increasing all taxes. We are in favour of lowering taxes. Therefore, we have proposed to delete – delete... No, you, of course, want to push the taxes, and when the others do, above, they also criticize them. But, well, it's the same. Therefore, our proposal was to abolish the fiscal policy, or its fiscal policy, of this motion and to leave the motion referring solely and exclusively to the presuppositional issue, which was the subject of its inquiry. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.116.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.117.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. You see, we share the majority of this young man's experience. Despite this, we have the feeling, first, that we repeat the debate of assumptions that we held on June 8. On June 8th, we expressed why we defended a goal in totality, with arguments that may please us more or please less, with arguments that compensate more or compensate less, but that were ours. Therefore, to repeat, in a certain way, with the feeling that we have, this debate..., we do not understand that this is the moment, despite the fact that we know and share that there are ways and mechanisms to modify the prorogation, to work with the prorogation and to devote more parties, or more money, to deal with the situation of poverty and social emergence that is suffering a lot, mass, people of our country. It is for this reason that we have raised a question that it is quite clear that the Catalonian Group Yes, it can deal with us, but that we did not just agree on the hope as it stood, remembering that at the end of the month of June the question had flourished to the full because the majority of parliamentary groups had decided to do so, that we had the will..., and we thought that the poor situation existed in the country deserved as much consensus as possible with regard to the presuppositionary parties to target it, that it was necessary to avoid it too, and that we have repeated it at an infinite number of occasions in this chamber, the sense that we were using this as a proactive weapon, and so as a scene of confrontation with the party and so on, and so on that the parliamentary party was in this particular group, so that we wanted to get together and so on board. Beyond that, we obviously share in this motion, there is absolutely agreement and we have always defended it, that it is necessary to increase the tax collection that the Government of Catalonia has, that it is necessary to squeeze at the maximum the limit that it has of capacity. I mean, it's obvious that there's a very limited ability, but there's more to it than he's enjoying right now. And that's why we think that the girls' proposals are absolutely in line with what we've always been defending and working on. Moreover, the government, in its moment, thanks to the communication media so we knew, made a study to see possible modifications, which the parliamentary groups have not yet seen. That is why – we hope that the week before the Economic and Historical Committee – we have asked for the appearance of the Secretary of History because this study can be public and all parliamentary groups can know it, and so we can deal with these reforms that we propose with greater knowledge of the cause. And, finally, plus, obviously, the theme of the game's tax. We have said, we will say, on any occasion, when we talk about the CRT of Barcelona World, when we talk about fiscal reforms, of what follows: it is, for us, a barbarity, the downside that was made at the time. Cal, regardless of Barcelona World and the CRT, reform this and return to the international media of the type of interest or the tax type that we mark in the game. Because it's the international media. That is to say, it can't be that we, that we used to look forward to admiring ourselves - there, in such a sensitive thing we don't know what's going on there where we admiring ourselves and that what we're doing is a downside just because we're getting a reversal that, in fact, is still in the process of discussion and that isn't closed yet. We'll be done with this. We are, however, already going to ask for the vote separately from all the points of the motion, which in one pair we will abstain, but the rest of us will vote yes. But we are asking for a separate vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.118.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.119.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councillor, Members of Parliament, I cannot help but insist on what the colleagues who were before me, the Members who were before me, have already done, and that is at the root of this motion. And that origin is none other than the failure of the Government to bring to the House a draft budget with the endorsements, the support, the parliamentarians sufficient for its approval. The Government, instead of assuming its incompetence and responsibility for lack of budgets, is trying, because it continues to do so, to blame the opposition for it, is trying to convey to the public the message that the Government intended to introduce budgetary improvements, especially in the social field, and that of course this is not possible because budgets have not been approved that allow it, because of the evil opposition. But the Councillor knows, and it has also been made clear in the previous speeches, that even in a situation of budgetary extension the Government has the margin to prioritise policies; the Government has the possibility of generating appropriations, has the possibility of making transfers of appropriations, to carry out the measures approved by this Parliament in the Social Emergency Plenary. For this reason, from Citizens we will support point 1 of the motion submitted by Catalunya Yes that is Pot, traded with the People's Party. On item 2, we shall abstain. We will do so because, while we share the need for the Government to draw up a bill and to make use of its powers, a tax reform bill, and that, in turn, through that bill, we would be able to increase the Generalitat's revenue capacity, we do not share its purpose, which, in this motion at least, expresses or specifies it as only to implement the guaranteed income of citizenship. We believe that the deficits that Catalonia has precisely in relation to the capacity to collect go beyond, go far beyond, what is guaranteed income. Nor do we share the proposed tax increase that we are being presented with. Look, the IRPF..., tells us: « We have to raise it to high rents. But they don't even define that level of income. In successions and donations, they do not present any concrete measures for the reduction of tax benefits that could return revenues to the 2008 level. In terms of wealth, the level of realization still does not exist. It is said that the great heritages must be recorded more intensely, but neither the great heritages are defined nor how much we should record them. Well, for all these reasons, as I said, we will abstain on the subject of fiscal policy. In connection with item 3, we will also abstain. Because, while we don't like the discount from 55 to 10_per_cent of the tax rate applicable to casinos, and we have stated this whenever we have had occasion, neither is it true – nor is it true – as reflected there in the motion, that tax revenues will be reduced precisely because of that. If one thing I think is clear to us, it is that tax revenues will not be reduced, that they are guaranteed, and that in any case they are expected to increase; even, some say, they will double. But, precisely, our opposition to this reduction is based, precisely, on the privilege it entails for certain investors and a certain sector, and the aggravation it entails for the rest of the tourism sector and for thousands of self-employed people and businesses. Because they already wanted, many entrepreneurs, many self-employed, to have the taxation of casinos. You'd like that, wouldn't you? But they don't have it. On the other hand, we still think it is not appropriate. And that is precisely why we should not be surprised that this excessive difference was finally questioned by the European Commission in considering state aid. I wouldn't miss anything that we'd have problems out there, too. Ladies and gentlemen of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we share with you, and I believe that with many other Members, it is not just a tax that punishes more productive activities than activities that have clear speculative features. If at least such a reduction had been linked to job creation, it would be more acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.120.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Next, has the words of Mr Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.121.0	Thank you, President. Just stick to the perversion of the thing, huh? Only a few days ago we had the opportunity here to discuss the Generality's assumptions for 2016. We had the opportunity not only for the government to present accounts, but for all parliamentary groups to make proposals around expenditure, around entries. So it turns out that one_me after dropping the assumptions without even allowing it in the debate, we find ourselves a place where a whole series of justly reflected things are planted, which should be reflected, in the assumptions of 2016. And not just that. I mean, it's not just negating the presupposition debate, and then it's raised in a young man, but it's just that the presupposition prorogate is so fantastic. And I ask myself: why dear, not this government, but all the governments of the world, approve assumptions? If the presupposition has no limitations, can anything be done and is so fantastic, why are we trying, the parliaments, to approve assumptions? We could go shooting with presumptuous prosuppositions, right? With this logic, if the presupposition prorogation has no limitation, it's so perfect and it can be laid down with everything in relation to the prorogation, I don't know why we're presuppositions. So he's a pervert. And it's perverse not only not allowing the debate to then bring it back to the plenary, it's perverse not just talking about the presuppositional prorogation as if there was no limitation, but it's still more perverse to plant social investments on these assumptions that, precisely, contained the government's proposal. Eight-hundred_seventy-three million euros to the social security plan that is neither power nor debate. And now they're putting us here to ensure that we invest EUR 800 million in social policies. What do they contain, those assumptions? What did the vice president explain? What is it that we defended in the debate of the assumptions, which, as Mrs. Regant has rightly said, today we have a new one already seen? It is logical that we already have one, because, precisely, we talked about the social security plan in the debate about the assumptions, because that project contained it. Therefore, if we had voted on those assumptions, had we had the opportunity to debate, had we had the opportunity to put in place everything that they are today, we would have had the opportunity, in short, not to be subject to the limitations of the presuppositional prorogation. I specifically enter into this motion for what it does to fiscal policy. Certainly, an analysis has to be done. And not because the government says it, not because it says it to this parliamentary group, but because that's why we agreed to it in this Parliament in the debate on social emergence. We agreed that there should be a global analysis, a general analysis, of taxes, and so much of the fiscal policy of the Government of the Government of Catalonia; a global reflection, precisely, because if we touch a tax or another effect, the effects can be, even though good faith is presumptuous, even though there are good objectives, in the end the effects can be harmful. Therefore, we call for a complete analysis, obviously, of the IRPF; obviously, of successions; obviously, of assets. And they're also talking about environmental taxes, specifically the tax on aircraft flooding. Listen to me, the law of measures proposed by the Government contained precisely this tax; the law of measures that the Government brought to this Parliament contained the development of this tax that is now being asked of us in this perverse motion. Therefore, if we could discuss the assumptions, we could have just talked about it. And they talk, too, in the third point, specifically about the impost on the game. And here they make a trap, Mr. Coscubiela, let me tell you, they make a trap, because they talk about the drop from 55 to 10_per_cent and that will imply less recap. And he just explained: that's not true. What the law reform says... and I say it precisely, that I voted against this reform in the last legislature, but what the law reform says is that it's going to make sure as a minimum the same recap that's there so far. And if he doesn't make sure, if the settlement doesn't have this recap, it's the CRT dealerships that have to pay the difference. Therefore, with recaptatory effects, the impact is zero. Now, if you tell me, "Listen to me, this is an ideological question. Certainly, it's an ideological issue. That is why I told him that we, at least one servant, this Member, voted against this reform last parliamentary term. If it's an ideological issue, let's talk about it, but don't make the trap of saying that it's going to have less, because, effectively, in the recap, the effects on the recap will be zero. I finish – allow me, President – with one last question. This point 4 has been incorporated into this young man, who talks about presenting the assumptions before October 10th. It is good that we approve of the obvious way in which the law is to be completed; in any case, and bearing in mind that this is a proposal from the PP Group, I am convinced that it has made this contribution you must mean that you are convinced that your partners to the Government of the State will present the entrance forecasts before the end of the summer, and therefore the Government of the Generality – the Vice-President and the Department of Economy – will be able to complete these terms, because, obviously, it will have all the information necessary to make the proposal for assumptions. Thank you very much. In any case, say – it was obvious, however – that we would vote against all the points of this motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.122.0	Thank you, Mr. Torrent. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.123.0	Thank you very much, President. Okay. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers of the groups; to announce that we have accepted the speech presented by the Socialist Group; that we have accepted, only in part, one of the points raised by the Group of the European People's Party, of which we obviously radically disagree with fiscal policy; the contrary would have left me very, very, very concerned; it has caused me much satisfaction that our fiscal policy is shared with the Socialist Party of Catalonia, with the CUP and with us. In relation to the CUP, said Eulàlia Reguant, we have offered a compromise, which is to incorporate the last two quarters, which refer to the only proposed part of its layout. They have considered it opportune not to be like this. In any case... I don't know if procedurally it's still possible, but if it were for me, I would be willing to accept their incorporation to incorporate them with their positive vote too, because I wouldn't want us to have any argument only to not vote on something we've agreed on so far. The needy of the guide is the needy of the guide, we all understand them, but in any case I will not be the one generating elements of discrepancy. In relation to the issue of fiscal policy, let's see if we understand, Mr. Roger, the problem is not to study, the problem is that a government, more than to study, must make policies and must present. And I hope you make it quick. I hope that the resistances and conflicts between Vice-President Junqueras and President Puigdemont will overcome, and above all that he has agreed, on the day of the confidence motion, to present to us the content of the fiscal policy that defends this Government, because if it presents the question of confidence without concreteizing a matter as basic as the fiscal policy of this Government, which they will be asking of us is not a question of confidence, but a vote in white. And those who vote this, will vote a blank vote, which is pretty obvious from this point of view. Finally, let us see if we understand: yes or yes, they lose resources because of the reduction in taxation. In relation to the current casinos, they will pay less, and in relation to the new casinos, the Barcelona World casinos, or as you say, the recaptancy expectations of the 55_per_cent fall to 10_per_cent. In any case, another argument has been made by Mr Espinosa, from Ciutadans, who seems important to me: why should a few entrepreneurs bet for casinos to the detriment, for example, of others who bet for another type of tourism industry or industry, which we then filled the mouth for strengthening the industry? Well, I hope I've convinced the most of people, and well, at least today, with the data contributed to the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot, it's not answered with personal disqualifications, as Mr Junqueras did the other day. Neither was it challenged with data, but in any case we are getting better in the debate and its quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.124.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. We're calling it a vote. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.125.0	To ask for a separate vote and for Mr Torrent's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.126.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.127.0	Thirty seconds for allusions? [[Pause.]] Thank you. Mr. Torrent, it's moving your concern because the state government completes your obligations, but, look, it's not pathetic, the state has government, and it's not working, and it certainly has assumptions. Concerns of the Generality, that its Government has Government but has no assumptions. And with regard to the separate vote, we would call for a separate vote on points 2 and 3. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.128.0	Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.129.0	For contradictions, and a separate vote, I'd like to ask. [[Pause.]] It's just that Mr. Roger Torrent has said something that we've listened to a few times and I think it has to be clarified. There is no law reform in relation to the game's tax and the download of the type; the law was approved and the law was kept exactly the same as 2014. At that point, we'd guarantee the tickets. And so when we did reform, because the law didn't reform, it was approved in 2014, and that's what's being maintained today, and at that time we were guaranteeing tickets despite the guy's downfall. And the vote separate from point 3. Thank you. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.130.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.131.0	Yes; for a separate vote, for a band, points 1 and 4, which can be voted together, and after points 2 and 3, which can also be voted together. [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.132.0	Mrs. Reguant, it seems to me that you have asked for a separate vote from all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.133.0	Okay, yeah, that's why, but how he sees that everyone... I'd ask for a separate vote from everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.134.0	Yeah, yeah, yeah. He remembered it – he remembered it. But he thought: "Perhaps some of these will be able to vote together. And I've seen it before, haven't I? [[Pause.]] Well, as if we were asking for a separate vote from all the points, so we'll start voting... I understand that "of all the points" means 2a, 2.b, 2.c, also all the asides, or not? [[Pause.]] One, two... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. All right. So, we'll vote separately on all points. Come on... we'll vote separately. Let's go vote point one. The vote begins. There was a tie: 60 votes in favour and 60 votes against, and 10 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We have to go back..., we have to go back..., according to the Rules, we have to go back..., we have to repeat the vote. And see if anyone changes their vote. Come on, then. Let's repeat the vote on point 1. The vote begins. We have a tie: 60 votes in favour, 60 against and 10 abstentions. It seems that, according to the Rules, we have to stop for a moment... for five minutes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Two minutes. Because I don't know, I don't know if there's gonna be any change. Let's take two minutes... and then vote again, and it seems to me that if you've tied it up, it's contempt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.135.0	Let us repeat the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I said two minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Two; I said two minutes. [[Long break.]] In two minutes we'll do... [[Greetings.]] Look, there it is. [[Rialles.]] As you've spent two minutes, we'll repeat the vote. If he's tied it up again, it's contempt. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote point one. The vote begins. Let's tie again: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 10 abstentions. Therefore, according to the Rules, the initiative is rejected. Now let's continue the vote. And we're going to vote point number 2– we're going to vote point number 2. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number three. The vote begins. It was rejected by 19 votes to 86, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the leisure and tourism project of BCN World]] [[302-00060/11]] The twenty-first point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the recreational and touristic project of Barcelona World, presented by the Popular Group of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.136.0	Thank you, President. Well, for the fifth time in which I am a member of Parliament, on behalf of the People's Party Group, to speak about the CRT, before I have named BCN World. And it's the first time we've done it with practically absolute satisfaction, as far as we think it's now, by the way, moving in the right direction. And this shows – and they will allow us to put on a small medal – that insistence, keeping our convictions firm, is a good path, also in the parliamentary sphere, and that ultimately ended up giving reason to the arguments of the People's Party a long time ago. It's been a long time since we said we didn't want to make any reference, because the territorial consensus was already there, and the only one we wanted to apply was a common sense to solve the problem. It has been a long time since we said that they were absolutely necessary for a project of this natural tax advantage and urbanistic type. Still, on these benches, I'd say no. They've changed their minds. It's a big deal that Mr. Junqueras left, because he would have told him that it's a note that he's now meeting with Mr. De Guindos and Mr. Montoro, because he's starting to learn from the economy and he's correcting a little something that was his plans. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] In short, in the parliamentary sphere we have done a good job and today we have achieved a solid majority. Because it is the object of this young man, it was not another to achieve a solid, stable majority, in favor of a vital project for the interests of Tarragona and the Catalonian conjunct. And this majority today will crystallize between the Socialist Party, the Group of Junts for the Yes, the People's Party and also the Ciutadans Group. One motion that is to close the commitment of the Catalan Parliament to this project, and also to gather the Government in its last decisions in four areas, five, and so on. The first is to scrupulously complete the calendar that has been set – we believe it will be possible. Two, speed up the final approval of the urban master plan. Three, respecting local tourist brands, which does not mean that explicitly they have to go in the name of the project, but as inspiring, and that they do not have tourist brands on the outside. I, finally, also, include a 1_per_cent in projects..., social policies of the investment conjunction. And then, there is a _five, which we are aware was more complex, and therefore, with the credibility that gives us a lot of criticism with the Group of Together for Yes in the past on this issue, today we want to thank him for accepting it, and it is the fact that it is clear that the CRT will not be a bargaining tool in the confidence issue to which President Puigdemont is submissive. This is the ultimate guarantee of security, of stability in the project, and it's... the fact that I didn't make it clear until today, it was the one that still left uncertainty. Therefore, it has become clear that you do not have a majority for independence, but you do have a clear, round, solid majority for projects that are interesting, for projects that contribute things, for projects like the CRT. Because it is not by chance – it is not by chance – that the issue has been pushed practically by the fact that the parliamentary agreement with the CUP has been broken. It's not random. It's the implicit recognition of something that we often give them, and it's that to you, to disconnect from Spain, your ancient partners – or we don't know if they're old or if they're still old – they used to ask for many more things: to disconnect from the market economy, to disconnect from the state of law, to disconnect from the citizen's security: a high price for Catalans. Therefore, it is becoming clear that the end of the process will bring good news for Catalonia, the beginning of the end of the process – I will be forgiven for the redundancy – it has already brought one, which is that it will bring forward the project of the CRT. And, therefore, what we are asking of them, for the future, and for future positive projects for Catalonia, is that, please, after the summer, they do not come back. Because it is true that a very plural Catalonian Parliament has come out, that it needs what has been defined as variable geometry, but it has also been shown that variable geometry with the CUP Group is more complicated than putting a samarreta on a cat. Therefore, they do not insist, they have other possibilities, perhaps not to make governments, but to approve positive projects. And if they change, as they have done in this case, we still make a profit, in Catalonia, from a legislature where we can approve initiatives, as I have said and repeated several times, positive. In any case, today I think we've been up in the negotiation process. Then I'll talk about the papers, but it's obvious..., we've accepted all those of the Socialist Party, the Group of Joints for the Yes, and in any case, in the next intervention I'll talk about those we haven't accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.137.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Next, to defend his views, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.138.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Alejandro, today what brings us here is a motion of posture, of reaffirmation, of repetition, that does not bring re again, that does not say re and that believes that, moreover, based on repeating and repeating a reality, it will end up being built. Certainly, very lacania, the theme. But, look, very briefly, and before I talk about my thoughts, the points that there is... well, there's a point that seems incredible to me, and also the Lords of Junts for the Yes, that has entered this game. So, what I'm saying is that you tell a party that you won't be able to include... listen, democratically, in politics, it's all valid. If the CUP wants to get it into its political negotiation and it's a battle horse, what does the PP have to say? What do you have to say? But neither of them nor of anyone, and it's not that the defenses, the other points – the other points – got them the PSC, barely hurts me, because it was with the PSC who approved the project. I, therefore, do not bring reintroduction. The 1_per_cent got the PSC, the fact that you did there on top of the toponyms and re-concluded it – re-concluded it – the bases. It is collected at the 2015 Resolution of 7 September. So, man, you're doing well, I already know that now you're in government together, at the Tarragona Junction you have a pact, but you don't make a fool of us for a big beast. Let us now return to my thoughts – to my book –, to see, let us say again what Mr Coscubiela has already said, I repeat. Here's what it's about: we've only approved a new urban planning. Neither did the law that we approved in 2014, nor the casino resolution, and therefore remains the same. And we don't have plans yet, and we won't know what's going to happen. Okay. When we know what's going to happen, we'll put ourselves down. At the moment, they don't know. Here, what alerts? Look, I know very hard that neither the PP nor Juntes for the Yes, that they always defend the stores, each and every other, and the hoteliers, and the business sector, therefore, did not accept the message of Point 4. Because what I am asking you here is that you study what impact would have the implementation of fifty_ thousand_metres_commercial squares for local trade: Reus– shopping–, Cambrils, Tarragona, Salou ; that there are already stores, that there are hoteliers. He just asked them to do that. Listen, if it has to be so successful, if it has to generate so many synergies, if it has to be so good for Camp Tarragona, why not do a study to see the impact? Work places that you believe, but work places that you could destroy? So, because we don't have plans, we don't know where we're going. And then another question, I won't repeat the tax issue, because I think that company Coscubila explained it very well, and, moreover, also very interesting the contribution of Ciutadans on the possible covert help of the State. But there is another question..., that are all the themes of which symbolically represents a tax reduction in a non-productive activity such as the game and which represents the theme of the game. Today, I think there is a vote in this Parliament on social addictions. So, well, I already know that the game is the least, because we have a game for the internet... casinos are the least, because we have a game for the internet, we have machines, but, precisely, we have a lot in this sector, that it's a sector that everyone knows has linked to money laundering, that it's a sector that, besides, does not generate quality occupation and that, besides, in the places where it's implemented generates social cohesion problems that after they have a social invoice that we have to pay among all, huh? I read the situation in Las Vegas, Macau, etc. So, it's not the best project we have. For all this, and because I don't want to do it any longer – today I won't run out of time, because, already, since 2012 that we are discussing these issues – we are at the same point that we are: we don't want Catalonia to be a fiscal republic..., [[the speaker laughs]] a paradise..., a republic tax havens for casinos and gambling, let's think of another country model. And, for all this, we will vote against all the points of the motion. And I'll say it again, huh? , motion of posture, of reaffirmation. So, well, very well, very well done. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.139.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.140.0	I was hoping that Mrs. Grau would sit on your bait. I don't know if it's a posture or not, as it least allows us to reaffirm ourselves in a matter we've been defending since the zero minute of this project, huh? We've always said we're in favour of this project, if not the way it was approved in the Urban Director's Hall a year ago, huh? The Pla director of last year's summer was essentially different from what the government and, above all, the Veremonte group had come to us at the time, huh? There already began to fix what was the model that was defending, which was a model basically of conventions, of complementary family oci to which there is already in the territory, a project where the floor intended for play was a 6_per_cent. We are pleased that a part of the current government, therefore, has also come to this majority that was already around this project, huh? , that Republican Left, therefore, has definitively donated its view on this project. We congratulate them, we congratulate them, because we continue to think, we continue to believe that this is a good model for the territory. And it is a model, which has now been approved by the Tarragona Urban Planning Commission..., a modification that is not a substantial modification, it continues to have the same characteristics of the project that had already been approved in its day. It's true that the hotel floor has been lowered – certainly, that's the sector where there's more business, the hotels, isn't it? And relatively, in a percentage, little, the space destined for the game: from a 6_per_cent to a 4.2. Okay. If anyone has made use of this argument as this was a substantial change in the model, then, listen perfectly, welcome to the initial position. And we in this case did want to reaffirm a theme that, for us, is important: that the 1_percent of the investment that will take place in the CRT is intended precisely for policies or to help realize, eh? , policies and programs of social types and actions in the territory. We believe that this should be guaranteed, that it should be insisted upon. This is not a posture issue and it is a topic because no one is oblivious, that on the basis of the competition to be generated or to be made that there are operators who end up awarding the space of hotels, oci, casinos, gaming space, so, this topic has become clear, the government has it present, does not care, because we will be very attentive to this issue. We said, I will not run out of time, because the position has been set repeatedly by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Certainly, the law that has allowed the implementation or the implementation of the Village and Salou Recreation and Tourism Centre has not been amended since two days ago. We continue to say that this is a good project, that it is a project complementary to the tourism policies of the Camp de Tarragona and the conjunct of territories of Tarragona, which will create occupation, which will create positive synergies throughout the tourism sector. And what we're asking is that now that the urban director plan is already in public display, so that the government responds with time and form all the delegations that can be presented and that this is a topic that I haven't been through much longer, as is sometimes the case in this country based on studies, studies, studies, etc. Some are specialists always asking for studies to put up with projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.141.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, has the word Ms.Carmina Castellví, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.142.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. The popular saying says that "the name doesn't do the thing, but in this case, it did specify it in the terms it is important. Barcelona World is dead, it doesn't exist, kaputt. Now that's a new project, a lot different from the previous one. Certainly, the new project gives continuity to the ancient, but the reformulates, gives it deeper to improve it, without changing the pre-existing legal framework, which gives confidence to the investors, and with the consent of the territory, the local administrations and the social and economic agents of the Camp de Tarragona, and what is more important: with public control both of the Government and of this Parliament, with a follow-up commission not so alone of the project, but also of the investors. We already said that on our electoral programme, Mr. Fernández, we did not change: we proposed to review and push forward the project, and that is what we are doing. We've already heard that this isn't a new project. So much so that it is! The mother of the eggs of this project is the new urban planning that is done, the PDU, and the urbanization project. It does not repeat a 25_per_cent of the built floor respecting the last project, it is passed from 1_million_of_square_metres to 745,000_metres_square, and it also repeats the maximum height of 90 to 75_metres, as at the maximum. It repeats the basement of the buildings destined for play in half, from 60,000 to 30,000_metres_squares, and from six casinos to a maximum of two, which represents 4_percent of the 96_percent of the whole conjunction. At the same time, mobility strategy and integration are improved, both from an urban point of view as a landscape and an environment. Miri, Mr. Fernández, is not concerned about the process, we already do. And we're shooting. I, listen, we'll be back in September, huh? I mean, make it clear. Be quiet and take two things into account. The first: this government is not unstable, it does its job. Perhaps you are still accustomed to the instability that provided them with an absolute majority to the Congress and to pass the roller, less any idea that came from the opposition. But now that's not even possible in Madrid. And anyway, we don't do that here. We seek consensus, listen and negotiate the different visions they have of the themes, of respect for the different ideological positions, as has been done with this young man, which is a good example. And the second question. This June, my company Oriol Amat said in an interview: "Because a country went well, companies – national and multinational – must invest to create jobs. And to invest entrepreneurs need to have no doubts, because, if not, they are retained. So far the theory, because Catalonia is growing much more than the Spanish and European economies, is expecting a growth of 3_per_cent this year, the weather is shrinking faster and foreign investment has risen by 15_per_cent in 2015. The conclusion, therefore, is that the political moment really does not affect the Catalan economy, in good part because it is lived a peaceful process. The real concern of companies including two things: on one side, delays and incompliments in relation to the Mediterranean Corridor, and on the other, the energy cost, which for some companies, such as chemicals, can assume 70_percent of their expenses. For what he does to the scheduled calendar, it has already been said – that it is also a matter of concern –: before the end of the year the definite PDU will be approved, which has already been approved initially this June 30 for the Urbanism Commission of the Camp of Tarragona. Around the month of February-March, the spring of 2017, there will be the resolution of the contest and you will be able to award the works to the summer. Whether this calendar is still accurate or not will depend on... when the State Administration does its job and brings in the reports that are preceptive. But we already know that in Madrid there is a lot of unconstitutionality against our laws, as Mrs Esperanza García has already brought us forward yesterday with regard to the approval for this Parliament of the Decree Law 3/2016, of urgent measures in the matter of public contract – thanks for warning us in time, it is all a detail – but other times there are reports that die of fasticism in a depatx. We trust that in this case it will not be so and that these reports will be sent out quickly. And finally, in relation to the petition driven by the tourist brand Tarragona - Costa Daurada, we also share this idea. In fact, the basis of the competition already foresees the preference for the use of toponyms with a definite name, as well as the expectation that the 1_per_cent of investment made is dedicated to social programs and activities in the territory, which must be decided jointly with the social, economic and cultural agents of the area. We thank, with everything, Mr. Alejandro Fernández who has accepted our papers. It is a project that has a great impact on the economy of Camp Tarragona, will give an important boost to the territorial balance of the country and is an essential contribution to the viability of the main logistic infrastructures and services of the area. That's why we're voting for this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.143.0	Thank you, Mrs. Castellví. Then, in order to fix his position, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.144.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, well, the first thing I have to say about this young man is that from Citizens we will give him support, because the compromise with the project of the Village and Salou Recreation and Tourism Centre, therefore, is total. But we also have to say that we have a reservation, and it's a reservation that goes all the way, because we're still negating with the tax rebate that was applied on his day for..., using Law 6/2014, which was, of course, agreed with CiU – time was the time – with the PSC; an agreement that was signed by two officials who, at that time, could tell us that they don't have a signature, Mr. But and Mr. Navarro. All folded, all this process, so, there's been a little sub-low. Remember, from that September of the 12th, from Eurovegas, to Baix Llobregat? ; back and forth, he's slipping away. And well, from the bar of Mr. Mas, with the magic rod of Mr. Mas-Colell, therefore, emerges from the Veremonte, from a World NCB to the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-seca and Salou, which, no more or less, promised six great thematic complexes, six casinos, six hotels, twelve_ thousand rooms, 4,775_million euros of inversion, twenty_ thousand places of direct work, forty_ thousand more indirect... Well, you saw that it was a little bet up, huh? A little risky. The investments secured to the principle by Verremonte, the truth is that there was no; there was no and there were no at the moment. The solution to this impasse that has occurred, therefore, has been sought with an agreement, with an agreement that has yielded fruit to this legislative reform, to this reduction of taxes. He said that he did not want to talk about taxes; I have to talk about taxes and opacity; tell him that there are two questions that have been linked to this whole process. And, well, it's true that there was an agreement on March the 30th of the 14th, at the Pretori tower of Tarragona, with this downside that, I repeat, was also a downside. A bass that... with this bass we didn't agree and then we don't agree. So, if the young lady was from Ciutadans, then the Mrs. Grau would get out, because some of her papers were sure they would have been collected. In every way there are other systems, too, to try to get back a little on the right path. It is hoped then that it was much better the 10_per_cent of something than the 55_per_cent of nothing. But, well, we have to see how we have to see it. We are in a situation, in a great financial difficulty for the Government of the Generality, in a situation where the tax burden for middle classes and workers in Catalonia is the front door in Spain – we have to recognise this – and therefore we are totally dissatisfied with this tax reduction. If you keep saying that you don't have to suffer; that you don't have to suffer because the tickets to the game, the casino game, remain insured; as at least, you will have the same one. Mr. Junqueras has come to say that, making a careful estimate, so we could talk twice as much. Well, we'll see, we'll see when there's settlement and when the numbers can be made, if these game-derived tickets finally come in. If this project finally pulls forward, then let's hope it does – because we also need to remember that the initial forecast was that now, at the end of the year, we would talk about these macro-projects in operation at the Village and Salou Recreation and Tourism Centre – we'll see if that's actually the case. We will also see if it pays the penalty, if it pays the penalty, this drastic reduction of the tax type; that we think it may not pay the penalty, we think it is an excessive concession to the gambling industry, a type of game that is also absolutely oriented to the benefit of the operator and to the losers, often not only economic ones, of those who play it. Now, that's what we have, and that's what we don't agree with, with this aside, so we do agree that this project is being pushed, because we already know that there are not twenty thousand direct jobs, that there are not forty thousand indirect jobs, we know that there will be an inversion of 4.775 million euros, but welcome is the one that sanitizes, around 1,000 million, these two thousand direct jobs and these, if we make the logical extrapolation, may be twenty thousand indirect jobs. Therefore, we will vote yes to the whole House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.145.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. The words "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, are followed by the words "Mr Sergi Saladié".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.146.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, everybody. From the outset, I say, Mr Fernández, that we will vote against it all, and that is how we are getting away with it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, and we'll argue why. We already said that we had to do more than a month, when he presented a similar motion; the only one, that every time he passed the time, therefore, it was found that at the time we went from the CUP a long time ago, that Barcelona World was a bluff, that it was smoke, so it was evident. It has passed – the Ciutadans Group has explained it well now, hasn't it? – more than four hundred_hectares, six large ambits and six casinos, to one hundred_five hundred_hectares, a_one ambit, and talking about how to maximum two casinos. Therefore, of everything that was said at the time there is absolutely nothing left. And here all those promoters of the past, and perhaps also of the past – because behind all this we have no plans, we have no business plan – you will have to say what in fire, of all the curricula you have asked that people brought to the gatherings; there must be piles of resumes like this. And playing with the misery of the people, playing with the precariousness that we have today in the country, so, it's not a waste; if not before these people, before this pre-charitable citizenry and who lives in misery, you'll have to give them explanations one day or another, from this bluff and from this smoke that you've come to them. [[Greetings.]] And let's just say this is all a bluff because, if you remember, "The Box when it started its participation in the CRT had a 5-percent share and fought hard for 20 years to get the 100-percent share of all these lands. And when he saw his expectations of negotiations frustrated, in the year 2006, with an approval of a partial plan that allowed him to urbanize, and, as the Brufau said when he opened the park, « he negotiates it – he says – « he will not come for the young man, only when we can urbanize, with the escalator of the real estate can start this process of disinvestment, « the Box is no longer the owner of Port Adventure, « the Box is no longer the owner of the hotels and there are 440_hermits. Four hundred_forty_hectares he tried to sell, spend 'n, with the great first bluff, which was the Barcelona World, and that, given the impossibility of selling 440_hectares of a shot, he decided to thrash. This is where the Generalitat intervenes, to try to make a broker of farms, as we do, of a private company, to try to help sell them these 150_hectares. They say that in the next 110_million euros, a sifra that is roughly half of that Pla de soc social that we have come to agree between the CUP and Juntes per el Sí. And, if this option of purchase is carried out, the Generalita will have to give many explanations, look at the faces of people who are going through it badly, so they are destined 110_million euros to buy some land to the « the Box », and not to measures related to the Pla de soc social. Because, look, there is one thing very clear: here no one has seen any project; no one has seen any business plan, on which to sustain all the expectations you are explaining. And yesterday a Member precisely in this room, and today he will vote "yes to this young man, he said, textually says: "The judges of intent are close to religion, and in this chamber there are religious approaches to politics. Certainly, many today will do an act of faith voting for this young man, because they are making it without a basis, without a project, without a technical plan, without any element with which we can at least contrast with which figures we are speaking exactly. And, look, there are only some documents that are officially approved, some documents that have generated broad consensus in the territory, that are all the different strategic tourism plans approved by the Tarragona Congress, that have approved different joints, that has approved the same Generality, that has made the same University Rovira and Virgil, and in the end of these documents, in no one, there are casinos, in no one. And, in fact, this Barcelona World project is the fault of the CRT model, because the current current current planning..., the current planning in the CRT terrain allows you to do everything you now say you want to do except casinos. So the question is, if everything you're already allowed to do is not done, why do you have to do a director's plan now? Why do we need a director plan? And the next question is: if "the Box, in twenty years, has been unable to develop the general interest that allowed it to expropriate the owners, and has remained unable, I insist, in twenty years, to develop this general interest in the half of the lands of the CRT, why not make a process of reversing these lands to its former owners or to a public entity that allows, then yes, to define an authentic general interest? And that maybe the vocation of this territory is not..., as it's proving, because it's not doing everything that it can already do, so it means it doesn't matter. And the best we're talking about is an area that has another vocation, an area, as you know, very densely populated between a landscape, we could say, touristic and an industrial landscape, and instead of going digging people there, and painting them with activities, so the best thing we need here is to make a splash. And we, I say, are totally against the fact that the Generalitat acted as a financier of a private company, and that this meant allocating, therefore, these 110_million euros to rescue lands that, I say, one day were from the people and we want them to become the people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Someone shouts: "Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.147.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. [[Germà Bel Queralt asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.148.0	Mr. Bel. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.149.0	Mr. Saladié, you have just made a great judgment of intent that confirms my impression of yesterday – I see that you wrote down the register – you are a religious group. Certainly, the people at the Tarragona Camp may have more jobs to choose from, with you not having any. But, I'm telling you, you started this cremating legislature heretges in a fire, and you ended it by incomplicating pacts. It's what happens to religions: the word, the only one that goes, is theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.150.0	Then, in order to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.151.0	Thank you, President. Well, the truth is, today is a happy day. It will not only come out before the young man, but the CUP and Juntes per el Si have entered into religious wars. So, day rolled. Mrs. Hortènsia Grau, good friend, lover of nature and art, in change..., does not like the repetition. You're wrong. And I'll prove it. And I want to dedicate a poem to him... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, of a Cuban poet and communist, and she will see how maca is the repetition, because she agrees that it is a good appeal: « Platero, donkey walker, / in search of butterflies. / Platero, donkey walker, / arrived trotting into the garden. / Platero, donkey walker, / found wings and roses, / yellows and carmine. Did you hear that it's maca the repetition? [[Rialles. Greetings.]] We're going straight into the exams. Look... you say this has an effect, or it could have a negative impact on trade and hotels. There is no hotel and trading entity in Tarragona that has not collected this project. Therefore, it is an ideological injury to him, not to the merchant or to the hotelier; therefore, meet them together and he will know. I, finally, the theme of the game. I return to repeat a question that has puzzled me: you, who are in favour of regulating and liberalizing drug use, of regulating prostitution, in change, have moral, moralistic reservations, against the game, which almost seems to say: "Oh, tothom is able to place freely, but cannot play blackjack, according to the Catalonia Group Yes it is Pot; something frankly surprising. And finally, like the argument for everyone. Look, it's true that one can come to the conclusion that this tax system applied only for the game, so it can have an unfair future, but it's that the world works as it works; or that's it, or these gears go to Xipre. That's not what we decide here, it's the reality of the world. And, therefore, we have to adapt - there, because we do not have opportunities that arise, from this natural, every day; they depart every twenty years: Port Aventura, CRT, do not arise so often. Therefore, it is true that it is a sui generis formula, but sometimes these formulas will apply if we want to make progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.152.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. We're calling it a vote. [[Hortênsia Grau Juan asks to speak.]] Mrs. Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.153.0	Just a minute to clarify a mistake, which is that I haven't explained well, or that I haven't explained well in this room for four years. We have no prejudice to the moral type before the game – or perhaps someone at personal level, yes –; it is an economic, economic, fiscal, money laundering, fraud, etcetera issue. Thank you. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.154.0	We will vote for the whole House, because separate votes have not been asked for. So let's vote. The vote begins. The motion on Barcelona World's recreational and tourist project was approved by 111 votes in favour, 20 against and 1 abstention. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the disciplinary regime of the Squad Mossos]] [[302-00061/11]] The twenty-one point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the disciplinary regime of the Mosso d'Esquadra, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Mr. Jean Castel. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask the deputies to come out quickly and quietly, please. [[Widow's remorse.]] Wait 't, wait 't a moment..., I hope they just got out because... [[Pause.]] Now, when you want to, now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.155.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, today from the City, we are carrying this motion following the inquiry where we were going to have the opportunity to explain everything that happens to any effect that passes through the Department of Internal Affairs, where we found that, in its article, it was not only missing..., but that they are vulnerable, in some respects, to the rights they have; further – as I said in the inquiry – from their professionalism as agents there is a citizen, and as citizens they have their rights. And in this case today we have wanted, in a way, to adapt the phone points... obviously, there are not many others, that we will have the opportunity, leaving open a way to the new law of the police of Catalonia and that must also incorporate a new disciplinary regime, as it is not in any other way. We will also have the opportunity on this other tram and that, in short – as the Councillor said – we will begin to start and work all the folds – as he said – leaving the door open from the councilhouse too, because the different parliamentary groups can participate actively, as this group does at this concrete moment, and lay down and narrow down those four points that, for us, were phonenal. And visualizing and analyzing – as he did in the past – on a case-by-case basis, as was a correct communication, we guarantee..., and now, in this motion, we incorporate that the agent who is in a communication with the DAI always knows who is talking to him, that he is no longer using the famous hidden number, which did not give any guarantee to the agent from whom there was at the other corner of the phone, for a song. In the second song, we would also have to incorporate what we talk about when the agent makes an act of presence to the DAI, in that trick you offer to come or not accompanied by an cast. At that moment, we saw that when he came with the spell, he wouldn't let the spell intervene. We have also managed, in this young man, to incorporate that the reader can advise, understand that from that first instruction, which I want to remember, we are in the reserved information phase, where there is not yet an instruction fired..., but I do want to remember that the agent went with him so that he was offered it, from the lawyer, but the lawyer, suddenly, could not intervene. This young man incorporates... – and then I will also thank the dialect that we have had with different parliamentary groups, in the second and the reply, when we talk about the issues – but we have seen it right..., applying the common sense – is that it only applies, many times, the common sense to visualize what it looks like, isn't it? – in the same way, when the first one was finished, let's say, no interrogatori, but it did go as witnesses where there was a battery of questions that made the instructor; suddenly, the agent did not go with a copy because it was not made easier. And then he'd go to the instructor's criteria, see if he added it or not, in the documentation. We also saved this, because this young man incorporates that all the statement that the agent makes in front of the Department of Internal Affairs, is incorporated, as it cannot otherwise be, into the consignment. But it's not just embedded in the consignment, it's also that when the agent finishes his statement, he'll leave that first finding with the Department of Internal Affairs with a copy of his statement. We understand that it was a waste to adapt it, as I said before, to the hope also of the next process, which will be going walking and working for the new law of police of Catalonia. And also, lastly, also incorporate..., until now, there were criteria to see whether we incorporate it or not, as I said before; now we understand that that first statement will also be incorporated, as it cannot be in any other way. How could we understand that a statement by an agent was not incorporated when, I want to remind you, 80 or 85 percent of the cases that go through the department end up in an instruction? What less? Well, to the hope that this young man is approved... because, today, I understand that we have the opportunity to take a step forward towards the rights, the staff member's fundamental rights, a step forward in value and to understand that also and, ultimately... is to apply coherence as a first step. Sometimes, coherence is the mother of science, they say, right? , and in this case, it will be good to apply and to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Lord Lluís Guinó, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.157.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguts MPs, MPs, let's start by apologizing for the presence of the Councillor of Interior, because he had predicted..., or had a compromise predicted and that in an inescapable way he had to complete, therefore, is not found among us, but goes so far as to actively participate in the negotiation of the motion and, from this perspective, I would like to aggravate, moreover, the good understanding that there has been from the first moment in order to bring it to term. The two points raised by the Group of Joints for the Yes referencing – and the motioner has already made a comment – to the fact that at the time the corresponding dispatch is opened in the Internal Affairs Commission, there is a possibility that copies of the statement will be given to the way it has been sent. This is the emena at the fifth point, in which it refers to this question. And for another band, it is also true that until these moments there was no possibility that the reader would participate more actively in the matter and in our defences, in the precise areas of legal guarantees and also in the areas of transparency, a greater support, a greater help from the reader of the movement at this time expedient. For another band, we also defend, certainly, that there have been normative changes that need to go through a longer process or some time a more appropriate normative space to articulate much more coherently all these issues, which is the new law of the police. We certainly hope that, from a parliamentary point of view, we will work quickly on this issue, that all parliamentary groups will be able to make their own plans and make their own coincidences and also their differences, and, in any case, it is in this normal environment that we understand to be the best place to raise these issues. Yes, it is true that some of the agreements that we arrive at in this young man can somehow incorporate in a more or less direct and more or less immediate way in the formal way of acting in the Internal Affairs Division, but I insist that, from a normative perspective, it is necessary that from a parliamentary perspective we continue to work out little by little and without stopping this new law of the police, which, I insist, is the standard place that corresponds to these questions. Defending two interests or two principles, one is transparency, obviously, and by another gang, also, the legal guarantees that any person must have, as recognized in the constitutional text and as a minimum of legal guarantees, demands in the legal order that they claim to be, as is the Cos del Mossos d'Esquadra, especially transparent and democratic. And therefore, from this strong position in favour of transparency and legal guarantees we have presented these two issues. What we do have to say is that we don't agree to open a study group or... You didn't say it, Mr. Castel, I said it – I said it. We do not agree that a study group should be set up to deal with these issues, because, I insist, some of the proposals can be incorporated immediately, and, for another group, we will also incorporate them in a regulatory and regulatory way when we discuss the law of Catalonia. Therefore, this is Juntes' perspective for the Yes, and let's hope, more than that... I thank him, that he has esteemed our allegations and that this proposal is finally brought to an end as it stands in this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.158.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Guinó. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.159.0	Thank you, President. Members, the truth is that, Mr Castel, we welcome the introduction of this motion because what they are trying to do is to strengthen the idea of giving maximum guarantees to the mossos d'ésquadra who are in an internal investigation process. Obviously, at this point they will find us. It cannot be that a police officer is investigated, a file is opened without knowing exactly the reasons, without giving him guarantees and that in the end, according to the final process, it can affect his future work. Therefore, we believe that there must be a rigorous process of maximum guarantees of defence, of information for the agent and, above all, from the moment it is communicated to him, it must be communicated officially, not by a telephone call, and that must be included in the file. And it cannot be that an agent is informed with a loud voice and, as you very well explained, in your statement there is no record, and that you leave this meeting, of that statement without a role that justifies what you did at that meeting. And also depend even on the instructor's subjective opinion, which in the end can decide whether this statement is included in the file or whether the process is extended or not, depends on the day or relationship he has with the agent. Obviously, it can be extended unjustly and the agent's personal condition can lead to a stress situation that is undesirable. Therefore, we share, and it is necessary that from the very beginning, from the initial stage of investigation, the police officer has, or should already have, the assistance of a lawyer. From the moment he is advised, from the first statement, he must be advised, as our democratic rule of law marks. But not only that, we had tabled an amendment, which seems to be that it will not be accepted, but also, in that case, if the agent concerned requested the presence of a trade union representative, that this could be accessed. Why? Firstly, because in some way we guarantee legal defence and, in another way, labour guarantees. And that a union, therefore, with much greater force, can try to work and guarantee a person who is under the pressure of an investigation process. Not because of this, not because we do not accept the amendment, we will not vote against this point. Of course we don't blindly defend all the agents or mossos d'ésquadra. Evidently, that mosso who acts against the law and contrary to the dignity of what the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra is, must be punished with the penalty it touches. But it is true, and we want to reaffirm and affirm that the vast majority of the members of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps carry out their work effectively and professionally. And this, in this debate, we cannot forget. You touch on the motion something that we also care a lot about, and we agree, which are anonymous complaints. It is true that with an anonymous complaint one can detect cases that are unprofessional, on the part of some mosso, but it is also true that under anonymity one can give causes and cases of slander, insults and malicious claims, that have nothing to do with the profession and yes with personal things with the police affected. And, of course, we can only try to get those false allegations to be prosecuted so that they do not miss the good name of the police, that they do not affect their working life, nor their personal life. Point number 2 we have asked you to delete it. And I understand, with the paper on the table, the kindness with which you express the creation of a working group on the disciplinary regime of the Mossos d'Esquadra, I understand it perfectly, but, well, given the experience we have had with the commission of electric pistols, where some group than others, in their interventions, in their exhibitions, their aim was more to ascertain or leave the name of the Mossos in question, obviously, we believe that it is not the most appropriate. To create a commission, this commission, would be a constant debate on how evil and how torturing the police of Catalonia are, and here, to the People's Group, they will not find it. Obviously, our role – our role – is what we do here today: to check if the processes are going to succeed, have a good result and, if not, to ask to change them. And it is the responsibility of the Interior Councillor, of those responsible for Mossos, to make an internal regulation, which is also agreed with the unions. And here the role belongs to the Interior, to the commanders of Mossos d'Esquadra and the trade unions represented in order to try to have a disciplinary regime according to the law and in accordance with the regulations and the taste of the trade unions and the Mossos and with the hand in the law. And I conclude by reiterating that we recognize the work and professionalism of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Obviously, because there is a black sheep, not everyone can be judged by that person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.160.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. To fix his position, Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.161.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Allow me, first of all, to start by remembering today's anniversary, well, actually, it's two birthdays: one is that of the Bastille dam, which means the beginning of the French Revolution, of what I think we're a little girl and a little girl all of us here; and second place, less important, but it has more to do with the subject we're dealing with, which is that today thirty-three years ago that this room recovered, officially refounded another time the Squad Way: July 14, 1983. And I think you have to see, the one we're dealing with today in the lady, you have to see with this step of time, don't you? The motion deals with the disciplinary regime of the Mosso d'Esquadra. Law 10/94 and Decree 183/95 is a regulation that certainly does not go too far and has allowed, therefore, a certain interpretation over time, some uses and customs that we believe do not sufficiently guarantee the individual rights of those people who are already being investigated, or who are at risk of being investigated, which is the case when there is a reserved information. And we therefore agree with the proposal put forward for Ciutadans, in this case: we believe that there can be a lack of guarantees for this lax interpretation which has come about by legislation which, as I say, does not go into detail. And it is that we have also contrasted with unions and we have contrasted with various people who actually happen to be: that there are problems with official communication. And we also believe that it must be guaranteed who is the person who calls when he or she communicates that he or she is working, or that there is a risk that a sanctioning procedure will be opened, or two, that there are problems in obtaining copies of the statements or, which seems to us to be even harder, that when you were assisted by a reader, that this is an absolutely basic right for any person in this country, therefore, that your reader cannot advise you or that he or she cannot participate in these conversations. We believe that this must be resolved and we fully understand the argument given by the Government, that this must be spoken in the field of a new law, and that they are prepared to do so, that they recognize that this legislation has become obsolete. But, in any case, we believe that it is possible to point out, through the motion, those fears that we believe will be resolved when it is talked about changing the rules of disciplinary law. As for point 2, as for the point of the creation of the working group, we, therefore, with all the good faith of the world did believe that the fact of doing this working group could be good, because we also believed that the conclusions, therefore, could be used for the lines after, to modify the rules of disciplinary regulation. Therefore, we will gather the motion of Ciutadans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.162.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.163.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, I think it's good to remember the context in which we're discussing this motion from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The Councillor of the Interior has been in this Chamber for 15 days, in the same inquiry, which, at this time, is a new disciplinary regulation of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Why? Because the current legislation already has twenty-one years of history and in the past twenty-one years the concepts of security have had an evolution that today makes it necessary and essential that all that is the disciplinary regime is being reviewed. And this motion reminds us of some aspects of functioning and procedural mechanisms and procedural guarantees of the disciplinary regime that do not work properly. Therefore, we, who support this young man, take the word, counselor, and we can immediately open the parliamentary debate that can help the Government to have, as soon as possible, a new disciplinary regulation, and more, as we begin to discuss the new law of the police in Catalonia. Therefore, we think that the motion is appropriate and, therefore, what we are doing at this time is to accumulate, already, ideas in this very debate today, in the question fifteen days ago, for this modification, for which are the lines that this modification of the disciplinary regime must present. And, obviously, the terms of confidentiality, the authorship of the complaints or the legal counsel are aspects to incorporate in this better procedure. We also agree with the working group. Why not? We do not prejudge that Parliament is not able to suggest to the Government key aspects of the best of the disciplinary regime. We think so, why not? We can create a working group, we work, and the government will already have this on the table as proposals coming out of the same Parliament. And, therefore, we agree with the working group. We believe that it is a good mechanism for Parliament to participate in the debate on this issue. Therefore, we will support the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.164.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.165.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, a previa. On the anniversary of the French Revolution, we can't be saying that we are more of the Paris Commune than of the French Revolution, and the day we want to have a debate of respect. Since the CUP - Creed Constituent we will vote against this young man, because the common sense is the least common sense, Mr. Castel. And the reasons for this are three: the first is that we understand that it has a partial focus on the sanctioning regime; the second is that we understand that, in the forthcoming handling of the new Police Law, it is there that we discuss disciplinary regime, and the third is that the ideological focus of this young man is totally against, we have not talked about, the planting of the CUP - Constituent Creed. In fact, the present motion focuses on guaranteeing the rights of the agents, or certain rights of the agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, in disciplinary or sanction proceedings, focusing on the fact that it does not seem bad to us from the outset, we are in favour, but that we believe that it totally eludes an essential dimension in this debate, such as the guarantees of sanction and accountability in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. It is a subject that we have repeatedly raised on the table and that we hope to be able to discuss the law of the police. Why do we need to improve the sanctioning regime and agents' guarantees if there have been cases of violations of rights on the part of agents when sanctions do not apply? What guarantees generate a cos that does not have effective and independent mechanisms of sanction and investigation? If in mediated cases, such as Juan Andrés Benítez's or Ester Quintana's, while recognizing the wrong practice and commission of the crime, does not apply the sanction or does not apply with the force it deserves, what happens to all the violations of rights that remain invisible? If in actions as contradictory as that of the barri de Gràcia, Barcelona, a few months ago, when asked for explanations about police brutality, the Director General of the Police, in this same house, does not only not recognize the mismanagement but that, moreover, accuses the present deputy of exalting the violence, how can we guarantee that the actions of the body are under the control that they deserve? If electric guns are used in all cases that prohibit human rights organizations, how can they not yet have independent control mechanisms? If from the CUP - Constituent Creed is proposed a permanent commission on police management and arms and most of the groups of this chamber are denied because they consider that the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra will feel controlled and questioned, what message are we giving to the agents and to the citizenry? And it's not bad and torturer, Mr. Villagrasa, it's not that; it's impunity, it's corporatism and it's sugar. Or is someone going to refuse a follow-up commission on teachers or teachers because they don't feel questioned? It is essential that the security bodies are under control under human rights parameters; it is essential to improve the accountability mechanisms of the Squadron Cos, and it is essential to rethink the police model. I've said it over and over again, and we'll take it back to the room today. And we hope to have the opportunity to do so on the mark of the new law of the police. I hope this doesn't come too late. And we also hope to be able to build safety nets without corporatism and exclusively for the community's service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.166.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.167.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, first of all, I would like to thank you and also to welcome members of the Trade Unions of Mosso d'Esquadra, legal servants; this in the collection, however, as I already said in the question of the Past Plea, beyond the collection there is also the individual, and I would also like to give the welcome to three movements of staff, concretely, which passed that calvary that explained to them in the question of the Past Plea. Well, Mr. Guinó, I want to thank not only Juntes for the Yes and yourself, but also to extend it to the counselor – who already informed me that today there could not be –, the collaboration they have had to visualize what it means to fix. Obviously, we will continue to work, as I said, we will continue to present all those proposals that can improve that day by day. In the same way, also, to the Popular Party, to Mr Alberto Villagrasa. I mean, we've been talking; obviously, we didn't accept it, and I'll explain briefly why. I mean, we understand that, in that first phase of reserved information, which must be in the agent's canton in question is an lethargy; power, the union, indeed, must enter ahead..., then. But, leaving this clarified, we did allow that..., I will withdraw the point 2, I will withdraw it, but I will explain to you why; not because of the essence, as well as from Catalonia. Yes, that's possible, isn't it? ; the need, power, of this working group. But, look, just for two things: to take advantage of time, to optimize the expenses of this Parliament too, we understand that I, when I wrote it, spoke only of the disciplinary regime. As we have before us the new job that awaits us, that is to work for the new law of the police of Catalonia, to also try to fit, improve and arrange this disciplinary regime, understand that the proposal can come in few days, also incorporating the two facets..., because this working group and the table and the different experts who may arrive not only in the country with the disciplinary regime, but also for the new law of the police of Catalonia. That said– and I finish, President–, to the CUP..., Mrs. Miraia Vehi, you are on the line, you continue to be enquished in the old politics, you continue to enquire in radicalism and you continue with that good eye which does not allow you to see what comes, which may get better. So much for defending rights and transparency... today, this young man is talking about rights and transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.168.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Castel, I understand that you have removed the number 2 point from the motion and that we will only vote for the number 1 point. [[Long break.]] Let's go vote on the motion. I'll let you know that the point number has been withdrawn..., point 2 of the motion; therefore, we will only vote for point number 1. The vote begins. The motion on the disciplinary regime of the Mossos d'Esquadra was approved by 123 votes to 10 with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into social addictions]] [[302-00062/11]] The twenty-two point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the social addictions, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask the deputies, please, to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue the session. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.169.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, MPs and MPs. I also want to take this opportunity to greet the members of Acencas and the Ferrer and Guardia Foundation who are accompanying us today, and to thank you, above all, for putting the emphasis on such a delicate and important issue as this, and to congratulate you on the task you are doing as much as the rest of you and the associations you work with social addictions, for the great work you have done. Thank you very much. Well, how many of you... or do you have teenage children? And, of these teenagers, how many have video console, mobile, computer? I don't think I'm gonna get too close if I say everybody. And do they know exactly what their kids do when they're connected? Do you know that? It's impossible for them to know, for a lot of control and for a lot of vigilance that parents want to do. And what do we do? Let's leave them to their fate to see what happens to them? Do we put a protocol on a website to see if they happen to look at each other? No, this isn't the solution, because we can't play the young people's salvation to a single card. Because, if not, every minute that teenagers pass connected will be at risk; at risk because they don't know who they have on the other side of the screen: three of each of these teenagers recognize talking for the network with unknowns. Also at risk of suffering from a disease, a pathology related to these new technologies, as we commented on the other day to our inquiry, such as, for example, anxiety disorders to lose the mobile, to leave it, to not be able to connect to the internet; dependencies that, if we do not treat them properly and properly, they can become addictions. At risk, too, to expose yourself to behaviors such as, for example, conducts such as cyberassembly, and rebra insults, vexations, humiliations, through the web. We haven't seen cases; they're happening. And I also risk, above all, all that related to the game and the online bets. With online bets we can bet anywhere and at any time, at any time, and what causes it is that the risk of developing a ludopathy is multiple by two. We can't be vigilant all day, we have said, but what we can do and what we have to do is explain to the young people the consequences of doing a bad use of technologies, and also explain to them the harmful effects of gambling and online gambling; that they understand that this is not just a game and proud, that it's not an entertainment, or that it's not a sport, such as, for example, thinking about poker – a lot of young people say it – but that this, that it can seem like a thing, well, normal between young people, can end up becoming a problem for them and their families, too; hard problems, because young people who have this type of pathology manifest problems like, for example, anxiety, depression, irritability, aggression, frailism, problems, bullying, or other problems, such as: It's a problem – it's a problem – very difficult and has immediate effects, not only of the future, but also... problems and immediate effects and, therefore, we need to put in a row. The other day, Constellera Bassa, who we have here, told us that... well, that yes, that they were doing things, that they were doing treatments, that there was some protocol, but that little else could do their department. Okay. So we don't agree – we don't agree – because we think we can do a lot. And an obvious proof that there's a lot that can be done is this young man that we're presenting today. A young man I want to take advantage of to thank all the groups for his good disposition, especially with the reviews they have presented since the Group of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, and also Juntes for the Yes. We've been able to trade some things, some other things, no; but, well, from here, thank you very much for the effort. Look, it's a youth that gives priority to prevention; a prevention that needs to be addressed in a cross-cutting way, involving all departments: Salut, Treball, Afers and Families... all, because we have to add efforts if we really want to give an adequate and effective response to this problem. A prevention that should go to the children, with workshops to the schools; but also to the educational community, and also to the health personnel, because we have to prevent but we also need to know how to detect in time and we need to know how to take the corresponding measures. A young person who wants to make the whole society aware of the importance of protecting children's and young people's rights, especially on such an important issue as online gambling and betting. And I don't want to finish my intervention without talking, precisely, about this theme: the game and the online bets and, above all, the publicity that is being done. I wonder if there really are things you can do that, thanks to the inquiry that we presented the other day, the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation has withdrawn online advertising in the children's spaces of its website. I look if it was easy, I just want to say that it's a matter that can affect all of us, that we all have children, grandchildren, teenagers who need the Administration to be at their side, that we give them tools to overcome these obstacles. And we know that it won't be a easy job, that the technologies are moving forward; but we are convinced that if we approve this young man today we will have helped improve the lives of young people in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.170.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. Next, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.171.0	Thank you, President. We thank Ciutadans that he has presented this motion that touches on an important and very topical issue and that we will vote in favour. The terms ‘addict' or ‘addict' have been used for many years to designate only the consumption and dependence of toxic substances: ‘Addicts to cocaine; addicts to amphetamines. At present, however, this terminology is also used for conducts when the way in which the individual acts indicates dependence and, moreover, when he is impermeable to the harmful consequences that this conduct may have for his salvation or social life. Ciutadans's motion refers to addiction to ICT and addiction to the game, but there are many more: compulsive buying, compulsive eating, addiction to physical risk activities, etc. Even so, there are emotional addictions. I mean, people who are addicts to someone else. We would have liked the young man to be more clearly differentiated between the new technologies and the use of the networks and what he is referring to in the game. ICTs have arrived to stay, they are part of our lives, also of our young and young children, and, therefore, neither they nor they can stay on the sidelines. So, then, it's going to take a lot of work because they make it work the way it is... as hygienic as possible, because they understand the precautions they need to take and because they don't substitute real relationships for virtual ones. We need to understand the importance of a coffee shop sign: "We don't have a wifi, I'll talk to you. The game, in change, is not necessary to go for life. This is, for us, the great difference. In any case, we didn't insist on this because the young man seemed good to us. The Ciutadans movement retreats that the treatment of any addiction must be multimodal: medical, psychological, educational and with close collaboration with family members and social services. Another issue that we want to highlight and, therefore, introduce as considerations is that, based on what neurosciences say today respects addictions, we do not consider that we should talk about responsible gambling, but we should warn of the consequences that may trigger the game in the worst case scenario. And it's that the difference between different therapeutic options is not in therapy, but in the origin of the problem. Why are there people who drink and aren't alcoholics? Why are there people who smoke three cigarettes a day and are not hooked on tobacco? Why are there people who can play without becoming an addicted player? For some it is a vice; for others it lacks social values or little control of families or the mass offer of casinos. Currently, from a scientific point of view, chemical and behavioral addictions are considered to share common etiopathogenic mechanisms, i.e. common causes, which are in the central nervous system. For neurosciences, there are no addictions, but addicts; that is, those responsible for addictions are not the substances– cocaine, heroin–, nor the offer of gambling, ICT, sex, but an individual vulnerability that causes a large majority of people to enjoy and provide a minimum of 80_per_cent in relation to the consumption of substances or offerings of activities. In change, between 15 and 20 per cent of the general population, if you decide to type them, it will inevitably develop a dependency and enter a progressive self-destruction and vital fractures. That's what neurosciences tell us, and, a priori, we can't know right now who's going to get hooked and who's not. Even if you tell them that you follow the specialist in addictions, Dr. Miquel Casas, professor of psychiatry and head of the psychiatry group, mental health and addictions of the Hospital Vall d'Hebron, also have more chances of getting hooked on a drug – follow a toxic, follow a risky behavior – those children who have some mental disorder without diagnosis and without treating when they reach adolescence, because the discomfort they feel at ease this way. For this reason, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot had proposed to change the points in which it was talking about "us responsible for the game for this other expression: "Warning about the harmful consequences that the game can come to play for certain people. For a series of reasons that I won't appreciate and that I heard, our thought was only accepted in point 9, which is what refers to the education of children. In any case, we will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.172.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Next, has the word Ms Montserrat Vilella, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.173.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, greet the Catalan association of pathological game. Basically, thanking them for pushing that there may be this parliamentary debate here today. They have come to see us in different groups, and we are grateful, therefore, that it is Citizens who have proposed to us this young man, so that we can bring it to plenary and we can talk about it. Of all the ways, therefore, it has been easy, with Mrs Roldán and with the other Members who have intervened in the papers and transactions, that we have been talking a couple of days intensely, but also the wish, therefore, to express a lament, and it is that we cannot do a job with all the other groups, that we cannot make a appearance in the same Committee on Childhood, and that this could have caused everything to be done in advance of the different groups and that we could, therefore, talk to one another. Right now, we've been talking, so, two of us, huh? , you with us, and you, therefore, with Catalonia........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But, finally, the question is that we are talking about social addictions in this Parliament, and that we are sure that agreements will come out of impact actions in our society and protection of the most vulnerable collectivities, especially in the youth aspect, which is in which, therefore, the association wanted us to pose more precisely because it is where there is the most important increase. Jo, when I was a little girl, played parxis and played goose. With my kids playing One and other activities, so, truth, the sea of fun and complacent. But my children are from the online age, my children are now... as Mrs. Roldán said or as Mrs. Lienas also explained, they are exposed to a series of games, which, whether they want it or not, are coming. I also have to tell you that very probably, the information that you had... – and that you exposed in your inquiry –, that you had together with the page of 33, it seems to me that it was, very likely not connected to the page of 33, only connected to the same computer team that you were using at that time. And that's what makes creatures and young people vulnerable, who, whether they want it or not, are under this pressure to encourage the game, and not the game that we say before, that it's a game, so socializer and a game that makes them rich and grow, but they can fall into the pathological game. Let's think if it's important that, including the DSM-5, which is the internationally recognized diagnostic manual to establish who are the disorders that we need to take into account at the psychiatric level, in its latest version, that is the DSM-5, therefore, including the online gambling disorder as one of the most impactful and impactful disorders in young people. So it's obvious we have to protect them. But how can we protect them? Often, so much society – and before it is also told – as the family does not have enough resources to stop this entry into the lives of our young people. So, what do we have to do? Find the experts? Find out who knows this topic: psychiatry experts, plaything experts, online gaming experts, and also those affected. And, so, we don't have to do a work commission. And here they start, a little, our exams. Because of the text that you proposed to us, we want to be really a non-good intention text, but of action, a text that allows our society... Catalonia, which has been a pioneer at many other times – at 87, at 2000–, which has been a pioneer in the care of playpathies, now a step forward, that looks like these variables that have been introduced into this path that has changed and that has been modulating, and can be established, in a work commission in the Department of Health, because we understand that there are so many departments involved, but it is the Department of Health that has to lead..., in the Area of Care, with the help of people who are mentally and adjectively speaking, in the way that we are in charge, in the way that we are in charge. And at the point we don't agree is the last. Yes, we do agree that there is a presuppositional endowment. And in this, from the government there is the compromise that the assumption will be increased to be able to face this prevention, detection and attention of these diseases, but not in the formula of directly applying the tax to the expense, because this, in the law that it was made of the 6th of 2014, is already foreseen for when the Barcelona World is set aside, but of "while we understand that it has to be linked to the expense and not to the link of the tax to the expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.174.0	Thank you, Mrs. Villa. Then, in order to fix his position, the words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.175.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., greeting Acencas and the Ferrer and Gardia Foundation..., your visit. Thank you for being here. First of all, I agree with Mrs Vilella that it might have been better if she had appeared before the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection so that all the groups had the opportunity, too, to know more about this subject, and, also, to be able to discuss those aspects that we consider to be more appropriate. Still, well, we have the opportunity, today, to do so through this motion that Ciutadans has presented, and, therefore, here we are. The new information and communication technologies have revolutionized our way of connecting, working, finding even more, looking for information, buying... We can do everything we can to mediate the mobile phone and we can all carry one. And, in fact, when we don't wear it, it makes us this kind of anxiety that seems like we're completely disconnected from the world, even though it's only in twenty-four hours. Our dependence on the mobile, social networks, the internet in general, is something intergenerational: infants, young people, adults, and also, every time, the great people, who have seen the opportunities offered by the network. But not all generations have the same tools to know how to use them. What only seemed science-fiction fifteen years ago is now an unstoppable reality, and, in fact, it is almost impossible to know how we relate to these new technologies in the next five years. Therefore, we face a completely changing technology; only in the past year have the communication lives of infants and young people changed: they have moved from WhatsApp to Snapchat and Periscope. And that happens in only twelve months. And, therefore, the ways to relate, the ways to contact and the effects that this also produces change. So the problem is not the relationship mechanism, it's not technology, it's just how we use it. And what I want to say to this, and to the young lady, is that we need to learn to live with the new technologies, and I'm glad that this young man's content is more in the line of education than it is in the line of prohibition. And, in general terms, we believe that the final motion, with Juntes' transactions for the Yes, therefore, places the problem and the relationship with the elements that we already have, such as this Plan of comprehensive care for people with mental disorders and addictions, insert this specific objective on the prevention of the new pathologies related to the use of ICTs. We also consider positive the idea of creating a working group with a strong presence of the families, but also of the professionals, who are those – they and they – who must tell us and guide us to where the future is going and in what way, so we can start it through this comprehensive protocol of prevention, detection and action, coinciding, as it also refers to the youth, with the need to start advertising campaigns, naturally, in the first place for public communication media. And, on the other hand, the young man is also talking about the game and the ease of the population's conjunction, especially of infants and young people, falling into situations of addiction and ludopathy thanks to the online game: it is easier to access, preserves anonymity, you can be playing twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year, without moving's from the sofa. And, moreover, as Mrs Roldán already pointed out in her question two weeks ago, during this access to the online game, there is a certain ease for access to it with..., well, then, the filters that are in place at these times because children and young people do not have access to it are not entirely effective. Finally, thank you that we have not created a new phone, because there are already many beginnings, and therefore this option of forming those that already exist on the phones and the plataforms that are already there: of 012, of the CatSalut Respon or of the Phone of Childhood Respon. In short, this motion presented for Ciutadans could be summarized in two large blocks: first, to situate the subject, to bring it to Parliament, and to start working, and, secondly, to create this working group that will guide us by indicating how and how we move forward in both the awareness and training of the agents involved..., and how to reduce addictions. With regard to the last point, which refers to and allocates a percentage of the tickets for the different taxes that engrave the activity of the game, it means that the basis of the contest for the award of the casinos that we approved in September 2015 already previews, also to socialist proposal, that the contracting companies for the 1_percent of the total import of the investment to attend situations of action of the game. However, we believe that, if there is a firm conviction on the part of this Government and all the groups that form part of this chamber, what we need is to put on the table the assumption that it is necessary to be able to achieve the points that are accepted in this motion. Therefore, far beyond whether they come from taxes, some taxes or others, if there is conviction, if there is a conviction that we must do so, it must therefore have its repercussions, its recognition in the assumptions. It is for this reason that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will abstain at this later point, and that we will give recollection to the rest of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.176.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.177.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, deputies, deputies, greet, first of all, the entities you have with us today. Well, we haven't presented papers to this young man, so, from the beginning, we found that he was a correct young man, right? , although I believe that most of its points are a statement of intent rather than another thing, carried by this creation– of this creation– of a commission of work on prevention and attention to social addictions in the Plac brand of integral care of people with mental disorders and addictions; a commission of work that we hope will begin to walk well and serve, among others, to inform and campaign on the importance of protecting minors from the inappropriate use of new technologies. We are in front of a social problem that is really complicated to deal with. And that's why prevention is the key because many people, in this case, young people and adolescents, do not fall into a spiral that will end up turning them into slaves of the new technologies and of what their evil will entail; social addictions that the Administration must treat in a cross-sectional way, with an integral view of the person from different departments, so that prevention, follow-up, treatment and posttraction are the right ones in each case, taking into account that each young person is a world and that his or her surroundings can be the result of a lack of family or social adaptation, of having low self-esteem or even more complicated issues to treat as they can be bullying or cyberbullying, right? Precisely, in one of the last Commissions of Childhood, we had the opportunity to listen, therefore, several experts on these issues and it is really very worrying about the evil that social networks can do to young people and not so young today. That said, and bearing in mind that an integral view of the person is to be held, we are in favour of all that is to be developed common strategies for preventing different pathologies on the part of all competent departments, in particular Education, Health and Social Affairs. And between the different pathologies we have the theme of the game, we fight the internet. The person who starts feeling a diversion can end up turning into a patient for the user and for his family and education. At this point, I would especially like to thank the task that the Catalan Association of Social Additions, Acencas, is due to the end, right? I said especially, why else did I gather there a lot of days ago and they explained it to me, didn't they? , among other things, therefore, that each couple are more the pairs of minors who mate with the entity asking for help. And if we're talking about the game, the scope of the game, it's important to have publicity. In the inquiry, Mrs Roldán, therefore, spoke, did she not? , online gambling advertising banners on web pages of TV3 programming, also in children. And the councilwoman recommended to the deputy that you're going to TV3 and not the government when you need something from TV3. Well, I don't know who went to TV3, to the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, but thanks to who the interviewer was, so these bankers have withdrawn, right? [[Some applause.]] So, we congratulate each other, and we give... well, we're very pleased that this could happen, right? I believe that here, in this topic of advertising, of advertising on the website of the Catalan corporation, the ACC has to intervene, because the ACC, the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, turns out that a few days ago it submitted to the Commission of Igualtat a report on the presence to the internet in relation to male violence, a report that has made to the brave and without legal support, saying that it had expanded its spectre of performance, right? So we'd ask him to do an analysis of the publicity he's contracted from the body, wouldn't we? , because it has neither cap nor pups that from the web of the channel Super3 is advertising without online games. So, the ACC that is dedicated to exercising its skills, that I stopped stretching the edges to the middles..., that is dedicated to stretching the edges to the Catalan public middles and not, as we know a short while ago, to doing it to the private chains Antena 3 and Telecinco, right? That said, I finish – I finish – by reiterating our support for the youth, that we hope it will help to mitigate the harmful effects of the new technologies, especially in adolescents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.178.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.179.0	Well, very late. In the interview presented by the present young man it is ugly reference that what we live is a thing similar to the digital age and it is ugly reference also that many young people, those of the 1990s, have already been born with things like furniture and television and no longer know what it is to live in another way. From here you have brought some data that refer to the addiction and pathology that somehow involves this digital era and today you are presenting us with a battery of proposals to somehow mitigate these consequences. So far, consistent with an approach like yours, which will never challenge the major and will never address the material and structural issues that explain this type of consequences; normally, let me hide, in a party of liberal inspiration, not so much in others that they should have a material basis in the explanation of reality. In any case, we do refuse to live what happens to us as a species of fatality. And, plus, we're much more in favour of... instead of doing a little bit of consequences, what's next, huh? We are more in favour of placing ourselves in the causes that make it possible, indispensable, the poor, to eliminate it forever, than of perpetuating ourselves in charity and helping the poor, or we are more in favour of trying that there is never more aggressor than not helping the victims. We are, in some ways, and so we are, taking sides, and we are parties, so we are going to go to structural causes and deep reasons, and it is obvious that, if the interveners say that with five minutes there is no time, obviously, to address the transcendence of a problem like this, it is clear that there have been comparisons and time to address it in committee, if we intend, moreover, to go to structural causes, so it is obvious that the five minutes are clearly insufficient. Therefore, at the risk of becoming a titular sea, however, for us, what is going on is so-called capitalism, so-called consumer society, so-called an offensive of individualism and so-called patriarchy. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] This society of consumption, mass consumption, accumulated, infinite, that needs, moreover, of the emotional bond of the individual in order to be able to unfold – I don't know what it is that makes them so much thanks – is a sociohistoric phenomenon, therefore, of the capitalist system, and consumption, moreover, can not, I mean, without the success of the psychology of the individual and the expansion of the therapeutic discourse. What do we mean by that? That concepts such as syndrome, trauma, extreme or depression, or low self-esteem, which do not exist in other societies, which do not understand what we are referring to when we refer to these questions, are, on the other hand, genuinely unknown, up to a long time ago, today, unfortunately, vastly extended, and what we do is to place, as we say, in the individual, responsibility for these pathologies, and it is also an individual challenge to emerge from this disgrace into which the subject has fallen, obviating, very often, therefore, these structural causes which explain this supposed fatality. Mitigating therapy, therefore, necessary, from another side, when a person finds himself in this situation, we understand that social problems are individualized, and it contributes to the perception that the problem is internal, that it is subject. And that the mental states are converted into the language explanatory tool that gives the world's misery a sense. We cannot share this reading. And this obviously does not mean that we understand that from certain perspectives, even that of the meantime, we can act, therefore, with this battery of proposals that is presented. It's a logic that we cost. And it is clear to you that we will vote in favour of the whole proposal; and we will also vote in favour of destining to it the least that escapes from what is captured as a tribute clause, even if we are referring to tributes that we are fighting head-on like those that come from an installation like that of Barcelona World or as you would like to say. Therefore, we come into a logic that bothers us, but that we already understand that, in this meantime, and while we cannot, therefore, go to structural causes, something must be done, and therefore, I say, that we will support it. What's going on, we'd rather we were able to go to the game. And, besides, how do we know what we're talking about – that's why I said I don't know what it is that I'm so thankful for – we know that it's plaything, we know that it's living with a family with a plaything problem, and we know that it's addictions and what costs it can be, we'd rather go to the scene, so that we don't have to mitigate the consequences, just so we can celebrate that they don't exist.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.180.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.181.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I'll try a little position on everything that's been said here right now. I'm starting with the last intervention, Mrs. Gabriel. Well, look, we're laughing, maybe, not to cry, because all the groups agreed that maybe you should have done a commission, you should have studied, you should have looked. Look, I'm telling you one thing: the Ferrer and Guardia Foundation's report on the gambling habits in Catalonia carried young people in a cove from the last legislature, there, phastic death; no one had looked at it, no one had done anything about it, and now it turns out that we could have looked at it; that clear, that we have come here... So, yes, we have come here, because we believe that it is an important issue and that someone should have seen it. We agree. [[Greetings.]] We agree that we need to get to the bottom of the problem, we totally agree. And that's why we're presenting this young man, a young man we've said before who gave priority to prevention, because we need to look at the causes, obviously, and we need to try to make sure that all this is not turned into a harder problem than we already have now. More things. With regard to what I was told by Congresswoman Vilella on the theme of advertising on the corporate web page, she was the same director of TV3 who at the last CCMA Control Commission, known as the body, announced that they would withdraw advertising from children's spaces. Therefore, it is not a subject that was connected to a person's computer, but it can be removed perfectly, and in fact it has been done, and we are very happy to have achieved this. We think it's a very, very important issue, and I'm already telling him we're very proud and very happy. And respect the issue of the young lady's 14th point, which is what brought us a little more debate, so, look, I'm telling her it's a shame, it's a shame she couldn't come to an agreement. Because it does not seem enough to allocate a part of which will be returned with the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Salou and Vila-seca, the ancient Barcelona World, to hear us. Because, look, first, this hasn't worked out yet, and we don't know when it's going to be; at least, I'm already telling him it's not going to be soon. And, plus, because it's not the whole game, it's just part of it. And what we wanted was a compromise, a real commitment of the Government, which are really compromised for social ends and are also compromised, the Government, in this case, with those affected by some kind of social addiction, such as playopathy, and which is intended to be a part of everything that is returned with the game to, precisely, to do treatment, to do prevention and to do actions in this camp, as is done in other parts of Europe. We're not making things up, we're not making things up. The only one we wanted was a compromise on the part of the government. And, once again, we believe that they have lost the opportunity to stand up to the affected and, indeed, to prove that they are involved in this issue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.182.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Moreno, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.183.0	Thank you, President. To ask for the separate vote on point 14 of the motion, the last point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.184.0	The last dot, dot 14. [[Long break.]] A separate vote has been requested on point 14. So, we'll start by voting this point, and then, then, then, we'll vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] Mr. Millo, if you go upstairs, we'll vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] The vote begins. It was rejected by 47 votes to 62, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on social addictions was approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Strong applause.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into a demilitarized Catalonia]] [[302-00063/11]] The twenty-three point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on a demilitarized Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Gabriela Serra. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as always, they ask, please, the deputies who come out quickly and quietly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.185.0	Mr. Millo, what do I want to start... [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.186.0	Mrs. Serra, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.187.0	Thank you, President. And thanks for what you've been through, huh? The ones you've stayed with. A moment ago, the Hortênsia company was talking about that sometimes, in this hemicicle, there are postures, she said, right? I would say that what I am most concerned about is not whether there are positions or not – that too – but that it is the level of delegitimacy in which this Parliament can remain, the lack of coherence that we can hold in our action and, therefore, the lack of credibility that we can create in the citizenry. Why am I saying that? I say this because, reviewing the Statute of Catalonia – which we have already done on the other day – the Law of 21/2003 on the promotion of pau, the Law on external action and relations with the European Union, the creation of the ICPI, of the Catalan International Institute for Pau, and, obviously, all this fruit of pressure, which at our house in Catalonia, has continued to be strong and varied..... has made there a very broad awareness in our citizenship against the culture of violence and, therefore, against everything you have to see with militarism, with bellicism, etc. It has been chosen in a very clear way for a culture of pa, against the culture of rapes – because we know that, of rapes, there are many, like oppressions. On the other hand, unfortunately, despite this, we have an increase in the number of military personnel at our home; in the last year, we have increased it in 663 – I reminded them the other day. We have increased the name and type of weapon we have; we have armored. They have increased military maneuvers with more use and more display of firearms; firearms that have also participated armored in some of them, with the complaints of a mountain of collections, of municipalities, of organizations. It has increased military presence in educational, format and oci spaces. I think it's important to point out that this year there was a military presence in the four provinces and that it was in educational circles, in format circles, and it was allowed and tolerated that the rascal was pushed, worked, played with armor. Talk about the culture of poverty and talk about the anti-war culture and talk about, as we have talked about, the abolition of war, peaceful agreements in the resolution of conflicts, the practice of non-violence, the promotion of human rights, with laws that have been approved by the majority of this Parliament..., it seems that it is not precisely an act of coherence to close the eyes before that. But not only that, but also that the promotion of military values has increased. I want to remind you that the Ministry of Defence has scheduled various activities to celebrate Armed Forces Day, even more than there was last year. And, moreover, this year we have had a much more active activity, worth the redundancy, of the association of legionaries to the district of Sant Andreu, who have paraded, inclusive goat, for the walk of Sant Andreu, annoying, imbuing and offending the city of the barri. Not only that, but it is also worth saying that in our home, in this area of preventing us from violence, promoting human rights, resolving conflicts, peaceful agreements, being against war, we have continued to support companies that are part of the military industry. We have Indra, we have IVECO, we have EMTE Systems, we have 19_million euros that have been donated between 2002 and 2011..., sorry, I did not find current data, but that means double the investment in military company of which we had at the previous time. The other day, and I know it hard... – Mr. Junqueras, left a moment of the counselor's attention –, the other day the counselor said to me: "It is that without a state we cannot do many things. But then I know that he thought well, because then, when he made the appearance before the committee to present a cooperation board, when someone said to him, "This cannot be done, because we don't have legislation: this can't be done, because we don't have competition yet, etc., you said, quite rightly, "We, today, in this legislature, at this time, must have the right style. And I understand that when you said "the style you wanted to say political will, and when we say political will we want to say courage, compromise and respect for the feelings of the citizenry, that mostly, in our house, I insist, opt for a state of peace, a just state, a democratic state, a state not patriarchal, etc. But it also means pulling forward, despite the limitations. It means that there are also decisions that we have to make between the 9-N agreements, and that when we talk about breaking up, that some talk about disconnection, it means that we also have to start and we can start disconnecting in many of these questions. That's why we introduced this young man, because as we define and determine with the new republic how the defence model will be, from whom we need to protect ourselves, how the level of security we want for ourselves and how we move forward, we can begin to demilitarize our home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.188.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. To defend the papers presented, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.189.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, said at some point earlier this late that a group was more of the Paris Commune than of the French Revolution. As it is July 14th and I am a French Confession, I must say that one can be much more Marx than Hegel, but without Hegel there is no Marx, and without 1789 there is no 1871. I couldn't be telling you. On the other hand, I would like to thank Mr Serra, of the CUP Group, who is proposing the motion, for his willingness to speak, although it has not finally been possible for us to reach agreement on the six points which we have submitted to him, one per point of the motion, we understand that with no construction – this was our own – although it has not been possible to agree, beyond a compromise that we reached at the first point, that is the point that we would vote in favour of his motion. For what it does to the rest, we have presented a series of items that we understand to be in the background in the same logic as the CUP motion, because – and I'm not saying that this is a demise of the motion – we understand that we are before a motion that is not strictly pacifist or strictly anti-military, in the sense that you pose a challenge to the totality of the current state of affairs for what it does to the existence of an army in the Spanish State. Do not propose a reform of the Constitution or a law through a 270 to dissolve the Spanish armed forces, but place a series of points through which they intend to reduce the public presence of the army in certain areas. And what we have done is, with the same logic, lay down what we consider to be the most reasonable position in each of these areas. For example, assuming that there are armed forces and that they continue to operate, and that they have among their functions the possibility of giving citizens the opportunity to enter this institution to train professionally in certain specialties, it has a certain logical possibility that, in specialized beings to offer, to advertise the post-mandatory training offer, there may be no presence. It has a lot less, and that's what we've come up with, that they can be in the right direction for childhood and adolescence, that they don't have that character, and that they have a more fun character. That was one of the things that we put forward. For what do you do to the question of military maneuvers? We have asked the Generality not to forbid – that we understand that it cannot do so – but to regulate the conditions under which military maneuvers can be developed outside the strictly reserved policies to do these things, and, moreover, let us say it, taking into account the civil uses, the presence of the population, the environmental issues, sustainability, the conservation of the landscape, and the need for a warning not only of the Generality, so that you can pronounce yourself on these maneuvers, but also a warning for the people or potential users of the spaces where these maneuvers are possible to develop, to avoid the surprises that can actually be produced if a peaceful move is made and the weapon is found. On the other hand, we did something to look like I was doing the parade thing, didn't we? We can agree – we agree, indeed – that this type of exhibition, therefore, is at least entering an obsolescence phase. I believe that this type of display of military power does not marry well with societies such as Catalan or Spanish, which, through various legal instruments and through various pronouncements of their parliaments, have shown themselves in favor of the culture of the stick, of not resorting to violence as in the medium to impose the political objectives of the State on any other actor, whether state or any other. And, therefore, what we have proposed is that the Government of the Generality, instead of banning these parades, that we understand again that it will encounter the difficulty of reality, that it cannot do so, worked to prevent these parades or military parades from being produced in civilian spaces. And, already coherent with this will, neither organizes nor stops of the security bodies that depend on the Government of Catalonia, that do not have to parade along the streets – even though sometimes and gala, they do in some space – but they do organize stops, from time to time, in the spaces and equipments of the same squadron moss, right? This is what we have set up; it has not been possible to agree. We are sorry, but we hope to continue working to deepen these ideals of the culture of the pau, of non-violence, and that ours is a state that I expressly renounced – which I do not do, yet – the recourse of war in the same Constitution, a constitution that we hope to reform, and that we hope that it can include this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.190.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Next, the words of Mr Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.191.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, I also like the song Make Tourism, of the Short Celts. You know, that song he said: "Make tourism by invading a country, / you will be the king of the news. / You'll see your mom, proud, / shooting some poor boy. I was a teenager in which I could sing it, me, while I was taking the samarreta with the face of a silver guerrilla and I didn't see any contradiction. It seems that the image that the CUP has about the army is the one that draws that song. But if this was the image society has, don't they think that the army, the Civil Guard, the police don't want the institutions most valued for citizenship? Perhaps it is because when we take away the simplifications and go to reality, the image we have of the army is that of those people rescued from the runes, in a humane mission to Haiti, on the part of some member of the Military Emergencies Unit. Or that of those infrastructure rebuilt after the tsunami in Indonesia, on the part of the engineers of the ground army. Or the soldier who loses his life to rescue a mountain to the Pyrenees. Or that fire in Rasquera that goes out with your help. Or the recovery of the electrical sub-administration in the Aran Valley, thanks to the electrical generators transported quickly with military helicopters. The army, along with the image they want to give in order to criminalize it, is an institution that provides us with necessary services in matters of security and defence, and in humane matters, both at national and international level. And it will continue to do so, regardless of the outcome of the vote we will be taking in a few moments. His young man claims to expel from public space an institution that provides a service to society. They think one thing: what they do is not give the bait to the army, it's give the bait to the people they serve. You want to drive public servers out of public space and we think it's necessary to get the institutions in town because they know who their functions are. As we also think that we have responsible persons in the organs where decisions are taken on public policies; for example, that we do not reject the help of the army, as did this government when, three years ago, there was a fire in the Empordad. We are presented with this motion opposing the existence of the army with the stick, making it clear that one of the functions of the army is to guarantee this stick. And it's that having a military thing isn't the same as having a militaristic policy and, like it or not, and until we get that what the song says Imagine is made real, there will always be threats and risks that will have to be contained by the security forces. But it's been a long time since we came close to the song of "Imagine there's no country, because here there are people working to raise a border where there isn't. We... [[applause]] We are not in favour of prohibiting the army, the Civil Guard or the Mossos or the chief police officer from marching through the streets of our country, nor of prohibiting them from participating in the spectacles of the Feast of Heaven, nor of prohibiting their presence in the Hall of Teaching or the Hall of Childhood. We're not supporters, because we think we need institutions connected to the citizenry, and we don't need a skeleton. And if these institutions are so well valued, it's probably because their services are necessary for society and they are institutions that make an effective compliment of the standards. And it's that the compliment of democratic standards is the best guarantee for the cock. Conflict and violence occur, among other things, when democratic standards are no longer respected, because then it is when people's rights are no longer respected. And here is a bench that every day talks about disobeying laws, passing its criteria over laws, and they say this with great joy: "We disobey. They are not the first, others have already disobeyed 1936, or 1981, of this, of experience, there is, in history. And if the concern for the pau was truly honest or thoughtful maybe we should be self-critical. If you really want to promote the values of pau, non-violence and democracy, I invite you not to exalt the figure of people who, like Arnaldo Otegi, have been sentenced to belong to a terrorist gang. But in the end, one thinks they reject the army because it is Spanish and is under the control of the Congress of Deputies. Because you see with a certain admiration that he's paramilitary. So much so, that to the botiga that the CUP has online one of the only four books that they have for sale... – they only have four books –, and one of the only ones that they have is a book dedicated to the epoch, the terrorist gang that is used to say « Catalan Popular Army. The honourable Member began talking about coherence, so, mirin, one of the only four books is this, dedicated to the Catalan People's Army, huh? a terrorist gang to which you refer as Catalan activists and clandestine military organization willing to act in the service of the country. I'd like you to explain to me what served the country was the murder of Josep Maria Bultó, year 77... [[Greetings.]] And the final conclusion – the final conclusion – cannot be any more than this young man is loaded with frivolity, incoherence and cynicism. And I end up thinking that more than the song Make tourism, of the Short Celts, here the one they came to sing is Tell me a story. [[Greetings.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.192.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. Next, has the words of Mr Ferran Civit, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.193.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, President. Companies and companies, MPs and MPs, the first of all to thank the Gabriela company that has submitted this proposal; also to thank her for her willingness to negotiate the papers. If this proposal has been put forward, we understand..., because in this country there is a culture of quite a long time ago, a culture that is practically 100 years old, a culture of pau that begins a hundred years ago and that here has had a great importance, especially in the moments of insubmission, in which cases such as that of the pioneer Pepe Beúnza were highlighted. Also movements of pau and civil disobedience, like those made by the Creed; cases also like that which mobilized this people, the people of Catalonia, the year 86 voting against NATO – voting against NATO – just as Euskadi did. In the June 26 elections, if you look at the map of the election result and look at the map of the result of the NATO votes, you will see that there are two different countries respect Spain, one is Euskadi and one is Catalonia. And that's past 86 and it's back to now. And if this proposal was put forward, it's not just because of this long tradition of pau culture, but because of the fact that we've had a state against it. And a state against means, too, an army against. An army that, instead of serving the citizenry, suppressed him whenever he had occasion. Because here we are talking about different bombings of the city of Barcelona in the last one hundred and fifty years. We are talking about the collapse of President Lluís Companys, we are talking about the year 37 that entered this army under the name of "Employment Army". Therefore, this army has never been a friend, nor of the citizenship of this country, nor of its freedom, nor civil, nor individual, nor collective. And that means not only... (some applause), not only, also from this country..., not only from this country, but also from year 34, when the mining wave of Asturias repressed. Vilment. I mean it's not just against Catalonia, it's also against any civil and social freedom of the people of this country. Therefore, I understand that the relationship with this country has not been very positive, between the Spanish army and Catalonia, as opposed to countries like Scotland, which has not had such a strong tradition of repression. That is why, I understand that this proposal that we are presenting here today, that this proposal that will be put to the vote, must be the starting point to design new models of security, that breaks the traditional binomial between the State and the army. Now we're in the 21st century, we need to start designing new models of security, which include food security, digital security, water security and any other type of model that I'm enclosing..., this thing that always happens to the culture of weapons. We need to start designing new culture models. This proposal, we'll add to it. On the compromise proposals, also on the rest of the points. And let us also take advantage of the fact that one of the points that is now remembered here is the subject of the transfer, granted to the Spanish Congress – granted to the Spanish Congress – from crossing all military buildings into waste – into waste – into civilian use to territorial administrations. And that didn't happen, because if it's happened... as with the Civil Guard Quarters cases, where you had to pay for the purchase of these Civil Guard Quarters. And that happens to my people, the Zug of Francolí, or any other place where they've tried to do these things. They've subsided us and we've got to pay for it. There has been no cessation of Administration in Administration. And that's okay. So let them know, here, the Spanish army is always welcome; yes, it is, that it comes unarmed and that it comes touristically. That you parade through our streets to visit the monuments, that you wander into our natural parks to walk, to see ocells. And if it suits, maybe you'll invade Collserola to hunt down a few slanglars, which seems to be a lot. In this, you will always be welcome. And in the same way, what we're asking is the fact that the poor legion goat, when they come over here, that they take her to a protector of animals, because the poor, against their will, make her parade in a thing that I'm sure she never shares or wants to share more. We will take this proposal forward and hope that, from then on, this republic that we want to do, will have a new culture of pau, and that, as Socialist Companion Pedret said, if this is an obsolescence, in this case it is an obsolescence programmed by this proposal. And also, as Ciutadans' fellow deputy commented, effectively, "Imagine there's no country... but clearly, in this case, how we had an army that tried to eliminate this country, so, [[remorse of the voice]] What we want is precisely to have a country with a republic that has citizenship in its favor. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.194.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Civit. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.195.0	Madam Serra, I think you already know, our group will vote in favour of the proposal that you are bringing us today. We will vote in favour, basically, because we agree with the philosophy of foundations that inspires the motion that presents us. Pear is not just the absence of war; pear is much more than the absence of war. The culture of the pau represents a whole political attitude, of cooperation, of solidarity, of prevention of conflicts, that articulate a whole sequence of public attitudes and policies with which the Catalan society is compromised. It is compromised on the basis of the treaties and international arrangements signed by the Spanish State and it is compromised on the basis of the legal texts of Catalan law, such as the Law on the Promotion of Peace, of the year 2003, and the Law on External Action, of the year 2014. And I let him say that there are three aspects that also inspire us to give support to his young lady. First, in the Spanish State, we must remember that the real estate assets of which the army is at its disposal were basically obtained in a non-democratic period. How many governors and mayors have been held with the Ministry of Defence to search and find barracks, gunpowder, shooting camps or military habitations in spite of what this ministry wanted to negotiate at the price of gold? Therefore, yes, the assets of the army are ours, not of the army, and when it goes into disuse it must return to the social use it deserves. Also, tell him that the culture of pau is a public policy. What do I mean by that? Just as respect for human rights or the confessionality of institutions are not options, they are essential democratic principles, we cannot sort out whether or not we have a culture of pau. We have legal and moral obligations. And, therefore, the culture of the pau must be a principle that must be inspired, that must be assumed and that must be drawn from public institutions. And, for example, we must remember that all the military institutions in our country are obliged – which is now not happening – to complete the Law from historical memory to its installations. This is also a culture of cock. And in the later term, let's say it's true: the armamentist industry can find it on many occasions behind attitudes that justify some very important international conflicts. At our home we must not forget, as the Centre d'Estudis pour la Pau reminds us, that important financial institutions, such as BBVA or Banc Santander, are one of the most important investors in the arms industry. It is not far away; it is also here, at our home, and, therefore, it means that it must mean, also, attitudes and proposals that we must make here, from our government and from the Catalan institutions. Thanks for the text they've submitted, it's very appropriate. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.196.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next, has the word "Mrs. Andrea Levy", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.197.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you tend to protect, to defend what you want, what belongs to you, be it your family, your tribe, be it your home or your homeland, and when you defend what you want, I think you're doing no harm to anyone. And the most important thing we have to defend all of us here, and all the Democrats – you will share it with me, I am absolutely convinced of it – is freedom. And for everyone's freedom to exist, it is essential that there be a balance with security. And that security, who decided to defend it? Those who think only in a certain way or those who have to look after the general interest? And I'll explain myself. Because, of course, you have come here to present us with a motion for a culture of peace. Yes, we love peace. All of us here are in favour of the culture of peace, I have no doubt. The question is: when you are in the barricades of Can Vies, are you defending the culture of peace? When you are in violent evictions, there in Gràcia, are your councillors in the city in favour of the culture of peace or in favour of their own? Because that's everyone's safety, isn't it? So, I think I feel so much safer with the security corps – that, by the way, from here my recognition of their great work – than I should be defended by some councillor of the Barcelona City Council from his own group, which, frankly, I believe that much of society gives us more fear and more uneasiness than not security. But apart from this – apart from this – Mr de Esquerra Republicana, the deputy of Esquerra Republicana, I think that with the gentlemen of Talarn of your group, of your mayor, you should not talk much, because, come on, we listened especially, and told the Ministry of Defense – this one you think always attack you and that they are going against you, I don't know what army squadron you have in your house – it is that the mayor of Talarn, of Esquerra Republicana, asked that, please, the military barracks remain there, as they also did in Tremp or Sant Climent. [[some applause]] - No, no, no, Yours – yours –, I know; it may be that they are not so bad. And was the army so bad when, for example, it set up an electricity generator so that Carmel's neighbors would not run out of light, they would not run out of power to feed their fridge? Was the army so bad at the time? Was he fighting against the interests of Catalan society at the time? Were you oppressing them? Or was he giving them a specialized protection service? And tell me, when the army is in corridors... in humanitarian aid corridors, is it attacking interests or defending peace? I wonder – I wonder. When you are fighting the extinction of fires, the elite bodies, the specialized ones, are you oppressing the citizens of Catalonia or are you defending them, are you guaranteeing their safety? Ask him too – ask him too. And, by the way, security is an intangible asset; in Maslow's pyramid it knows that it is also among the priorities that an individual has and must be guaranteed, and it is a asset that today is highly threatened. I sincerely prefer – I prefer – that in the face of terrorist threats our state security forces defend us and not the councillors of the CUP, that I do not know what degree of experience they have to fight against jihadism, but, come on, that if you go as you usually go in the barricades, then I do not know if you are very prepared. And, said that, it has a pretty funny thing. Mrs. Serra, you know what the world wide net is, don't you? The internet, huh? The Internet. Well, look, if money had not been devoted to research and development, if we had not, for example, specialized elite bodies such as military R & D, the Internet would not exist. So less demagogy and we love peace. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.198.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Gabriela Serra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.199.0	Yeah. Lady Levy, I'm sorry... [[Widow's remorse.]] He's gone? It's the same... Popular Party of Catalonia, lucky I only have two minutes and I won't be able to spend as much time as I want. That said; first, I want to thank the presence of the companies and the company there, who are from the Centre d'Etudes pour la Pau Josep Maria Delàs and who are from the campaign "Demilitarize education and I recommend you... – am I wrong? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. – and I recommend that you come and enter your web pages. But, well, going for gangs, because a lot of things have been said. First, thank you – that I didn't say before, you know I'm new –, Pedret, Ferran Pedret, thank you for the patience you've had. So did Sergio, because we were able to run, and you didn't say you made a statement, but, well, we didn't accept it, but you did. And to the company of Juntas for the Yes because we were able to trade and do things. Sergio, what can't be is that we have a one-sided look at what the army is, that's what it can't be, because if you say..., maybe because you're very young– I don't know, maybe I just said a breakdown – but, of course, if you tell me that for you the army is what helps humanity to..., where did you say? , which helps humanity wherever it is or, as Mrs Levy said, the one who puts electricity in Carmel, such..., this double-use army is not an army. The army of truth is that which is the arm of a state, and the army of truth is that which completes the orders of an established power, of a political power, of an economic power, of a power, even cultural, because the states usually have a culture of violence and are usually hierarchical, they are, therefore, patriarchal and they are, therefore, exploiters and oppressors, in general. That's why we need to build a different republic. That said, no one disagrees that there are such experts to save people, to put out fires – we have the bombers – and to put out fires – we have the forest guard, who does it wonderfully well – to take care of victims of accidents – we have a health service that, despite the detail, works – etc. I don't, I see another army, maybe by age, but I see the army that destroyed Iraq, that helped destroy Iraq, I see the army that helped destroy Afghanistan, I see the army that is standing and making stops, every time, and that has intervened in the Balkans. I see the army..., when you said: "The army is to meet the democratic standards, I left the army that had missed all the democratic standards, not only in Catalonia, but in the conjunct of the Spanish State. I know that army, which is the army that is there now – it is the army that is there now – they have never asked for forgiveness, they have never penetrated and they have never returned back. And a lot of the people that were then, still going on. Therefore, we see different armies – we see different armies. I want double use, but I want double use...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.200.0	Lady Serra, I know it's hard, but time has passed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.201.0	... – I'm sorry, yes – I want the double civilian use, I don't want the military use. I can't say any more things, but, I'm sorry, it's just that it never gives me time..., god many important things. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What? No, that's already done by the Other – that's already done by the Other – they can do it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.202.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. All right. Yeah, we're calling it a vote. [[Sergio Sanz Jiménez asks to speak.]] Mr. Sanz, yes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.203.0	To defend the image of Catalans who are in the army respect some statements made by Congressman Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.204.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.205.0	For allusions or as follows. [[The timer laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.206.0	It's that "what we don't have, Mr. Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.207.0	While the people are up, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.208.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.209.0	Miri, Mr. Civit, the army is full of Catalans, yesterday and today, and it is a lack of respect for the whole army and especially for the Catalans who are military who say they work to destroy Catalonia. I'll have you rectified, please. [[Greetings.]] And respect what Gabriela Serra said; I must say to her: I, when I see Iraq, do not see the military, I see the picture of the Azores, for example. But I am also very sorry that you have not explained what an apologia of a terrorist group that is said to be the Catalan People's Army on the website of its party. I can feel it. [[Greetings.]] [[Ferran Civit and Martí ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.210.0	Mr. Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.211.0	For allusions and contradictions. As a matter of contradiction, the mayor of Talarn is no longer from Esquerra, for a band. And, second of all, in this case, what I did is a historical rest of what the Spanish army in Catalonia has been about. [[Albano Dante Fachin Pozzi asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.212.0	Mr. Albano Dante.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.213.0	For historical contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.214.0	This is new. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.215.0	No, no, I'm telling you about the picture of the Azores. The picture of the Azores, yes, certainly the Chilcot report has demonstrated the farce that this has been. According to – and this is the historical contradiction – the Spanish army was in Iraq, if I can't remember. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.216.0	Mr. Pedret, I see it – I see it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.217.0	I'm sorry, I didn't feel it. To ask for a separate vote and also a order of order. The separate vote is to ask him to vote separately from the first and, on the other hand, the fifth and sixth ballots, which on our part can go together. And the order, Madam President, with all due respect, but it has already occurred twice in this late session that people who did not take part in the debate have spoken, and I think we would do badly to leave this as before. Besides, in one case, it happened at a time when neither is the usual, before I just talked about the rest of the doorman. I am saying this because, if not, if it is considered that after each motion there is a general turn, so probably we all have something to say. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.218.0	All right – all right – Mr Pedret. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.219.0	To ask for separate votes from points 1 and 6, which can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-14-2002.220.0	Yes; it's pretty complicated, because if we vote together on 5 and 6 we can't vote on 1 and 6. So maybe we vote 1, 5 and 6 and the rest of the vote, if that's what it looks like. [[Widow's remorse.]] Does it look like it? [[Pause.]] We'll start by voting 1, 5 and 6, and after the rest of the vote, right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay? [[Pause and remorse of the voice.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah... : 1, 5 and 6, and the rest of the young man. So, let's start... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] One moment. [[Pause.]] Let's go vote number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to 10, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. It was approved by 80 votes to 35, with 15 abstentions. And then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. It was approved by 80 votes to 10, with 40 abstentions. And then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 80 votes to 50, with no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] The session's up.
