ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.1.0	The session begins. Too late to all and so to all. I would remind you that, in agreement with the Spokesman's Meeting of 19 July, we shall proceed, first of all, to substantiation of the questions on the agenda. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier, and, in accordance with Rule 161, they will be replaced tomorrow morning. Thus, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Esther Niubó of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her group, Mrs Eva Granados, and she has also delegated her vote to the deputy Àngels Martínez of the Catalan Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, in the spokesman of her group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. I would also like to point out that, today, in this session, the plaque has already been laid to Deputy Amadeu Colldeforns, who died on 19 July 1936, and who decided that this plaque would be laid in the Parliament Plenum of '1 October 1937. Therefore, today, for the first time, we have the plaque at the right of Parliament. [[Greetings.]] In accordance with the request made by the Government and the conformity of the parliamentary groups, the proposals, according to Article 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, altering the agenda of this plenary session, so that the third item of the agenda, relating to the question to the Government on the Catalan communities abroad, can be substanceized in continuation of the first item, which is the question to the Government on railway infrastructure. Can this alteration be approved with your consent? [[Pause.]] The order of the day is modified, therefore, in this sense. [[Question to the Government on railway infrastructure]] [[300-00085/11]] The first point, therefore, is: an inquiry to the Government on railway infrastructure, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, she has the word Marina Bravo. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.2.0	Thank you, President. It's up to me to open this last session of this second period, which, of course, with a lot of expectation, I don't know... [[relays]] I don't think it's on the railways, but it should, because the truth is that, all this time, I have been able to see that many of the Members who are here come on the railway to this plenary; in our group a few come: Jorge comes from Lleida, he sends us the health news; we have Francisco and Lorraine, who come from Tarragona, and even our spokesman also goes on the train, sometimes writing poems [[the speaker laughs]] But... [[Greetings.]] But, finally, there are many railway infrastructures in our autonomous community, but we will focus on the services and infrastructures that this Government has competence for. I already know that the current government team is not to blame for what the previous ones have done or stopped doing, but you represent parties that have been running Catalonia for many years; some, more than thirty. And, so much so that we have found in this legislature that they like to talk about competences, I remind them that, all this time, they have had autonomous competences in railway matters, all the time. I am not referring to the service of rolling stock, which they handed over to them a while ago, nor to the infrastructure of general interest on which they are circulating and which they are claiming, I am referring to the competence in railway matters for regional mobility; these have always had them: the State, the railway infrastructure of general interest; the autonomous communities, which complement those to facilitate mobility within each of the regions. And here, in Catalonia, they slept a little bit on the laurels. In addition to talking about skills, there is also something they like very much, which is that of comparing oneself. I also like to compare myself, but I like to compare myself with other autonomous communities, even with other regions of Europe, to see how problems are solved there, which often even draws attention to see how similar they are. And I like to compare myself to see what they do differently, and see how it could be done better here. When I started the race, they explained to me that the closeness of Barcelona had improved much in recent years; they were modern and worked well. I could check it out. It is true that they do not seem to have changed much twenty years later. But in these twenty years – so much that they like to compare themselves – the Community of Madrid, with the same skills and with governments of different colors, has put into service more than one hundred_five kilometers of metro; Catalonia, if we add metro and Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat, including even the last twenty_kilometres inaugurated from line 9, approximately fifty: one_third. Mercè Sala said ten years ago, when asked about the differences between one and another transport system, something like that Madrid bets on mobility; Catalonia, for identity, for language. The truth, seeing these figures, might seem like he was right. And that Generalitat Railway works well? Yes, but what I said: they slept on the laurels, as happened to Renfe, who had some closeness that were excellent in Madrid and Barcelona, and now, of course, he doesn't have them, in either of the two cities. In Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat has invested in many things, but they have not substantially invested in expanding capacity. The chronic problems of Plaça Catalunya or Provenza are still there since the beginning of time. Now, with Terrassa's prolongation, they are beginning to be even more evident. In Rubi they have already begun to suffer. Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat is now beginning to experience what Renfe already experienced in his day: the increase in demand forces the network to reach the limit of its capacity, and thus the service worsens. At the peak hour, as many trains as possible are put in, and after two or three stops they start to go full, complaints begin; full trains that are not only uncomfortable, but cause delays in the seasons, because people take a long time to get up and down from them. We fear that this will begin to happen more from now on, because the problem will get worse with the extension of Sabadell. I'm sure your technicians know that, but it's much easier to criticize the problems of others than to solve those of yourself, and, more so, when you haven't done your homework. When longer trains cannot be used, for example, because the lengthening of platforms was partial and insufficient, and when it still has a few unsolved bottlenecks. And, as for the metro, the metro is the most used means of transport and has improved very little in recent years. We have already said that the lengthening of the lines has been very limited. It can be checked by comparing it with other sites. In addition we continue to have such regrettable transhipments as Urquinaona, as plaza de España, as plaza de Sants. And as for line 9, I can understand more or less, that, despite the brutal mistakes made in planning and management, if the Generalitat has not finished it is because it has not been able, because it has not been able, that, obviously, it would love to have the inaugurated completely. And so I wouldn't understand in any way that the City Council of Barcelona, or any of its neighborhoods, would do something like this, like this one you have here. Rull: "We will file the appeal against Adif to defend the rights of road users. We would not understand that the City Council of Barcelona put a lawsuit to your department, as you announced yesterday that you would do Adif. But what do you expect a judge to tell you? The truth is that Barcelona would have many more reasons than those that the Generalitat has with Adif for the amount of money that has been buried in tunnels, in unfinished wells, in interrupted works, for the money that must be spent each month in keeping those works closed, money that is not that it goes to other places, is that it is thrown directly into the trash. And not having line 9 is much more damaging to the mobility of Catalans than most of the works that are claimed nearby. But no, you're trying to say that you'd do everything better. Because. Because they're prettier. Well let us at least doubt it, because given what has already been paid, what has already been spent on line 9, how the work has been managed, all the money we throw into the trash every month to keep tunnels and stations closed, the huge mortgage that we will have to pay years and years for the piece that is already open, and all that remains to be done, no, don't ask me to believe that you would better manage investment in nearby infrastructures, because nothing seems to indicate it. But, above all, don't lie, please. No more envy, no more chrispation, no more lies. Trying to find followers for your independence cause can be lawful. There is no problem in discussing, in explaining their motives, but it ceases to be so when it is done in this way, when it takes any opportunity to offer a speech full of lies with the sole objective of attracting those who, with the real facts, with the truth, would never support raising a new border. The last occasion: this Sunday, with regrettable statements, those made when the La Pobla train was opened. This interpellation we ask before we hear them. We already knew it was going to be the opening, and in fact, it brought him an article that appeared in a Czech magazine on the La Pobla line, which I recommend to read to everyone, it's fine, and it doesn't put anything that they won't like, to anyone. It's pretty neutral, don't worry. But you have used an act that should be joyful and proud for all to re-divide Catalans based on lies. Train type-approval is a tremendously complex issue across Europe, in fact, it is one of the serious problems of the European railway industry. The fourth railway package proposes to improve this. The procedure that has occurred with the approval of these trains has been normal, almost fast, when compared to other cases that have recently occurred. Look, for example, how long it took for Cadiz's train-tram, or how long it took with the AVEs they had to do..., to get to Paris. It is sad that you take any occasion, even the most unthinkable, to blame all our problems on Madrid. And even more regrettable is, by the way, that the president of a public company, such as Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat, which should be a manager, an administrator, uses a loudspeaker, such as that of an important day for that company, to launch a political message that should have nothing to do with the business to which it is engaged. The politicization in the Catalan public administration is scandalous. It may be, part of the fault, of the Ministry of Development, that the trains go wrong, but, of course, it is the fault of this Government that almost half of the population creates, based on lies, that it is somewhat intentional, malicious, of the Government of Spain. Tell us, please, how are you going to recover the lost time? How will the Generalitat's Ferrocarrils capacity be significantly improved? Do you have any plans, for example, to prolong the walkers? Do you have any plans, on the other hand, for subway upgrades? And to finish line 9? Or will you file an appeal against yourself for failing to comply with your commitments? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer this question, and on behalf of the Government, the honourable Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr Josep Rull, now has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable councillors, honourable Member, after all these last twenty-four hours of rail work, I honestly thought you would be referring to it. This is what it would be like to do to a Member who thinks that priority is the citizens of Catalonia; she does not think that priority is simply to take over the Government of Catalonia and use it, let's say, as in esparring, as she did, with a very kind attitude, in this inquiry. It is surprising that, after yesterday, for one hundred and fifty minutes, 250 people are literally stuck on a train to the lands of the Jew, you don't make any comments. It's just unaudited. [[applause]] – unheard of – that, today, that there has been another incident, there has been an incident at R1, there has been an incident between Pineda and Arenys de Mar..., because there has been a problem of maintaining the infrastructure, concretely, of the chain. We are talking about three hours, too, of a cut line, with a transfer of bus users that you would somehow refer to. The one who... today, this same morning, at R15, the one who went to Red Riba d'Ebre, so today also cancelled a servant, a Reus to Barcelona, and another servant suffered a delay of one hour. I thought that you, at the time of planting, on behalf of Ciutadans, would obviously refer to this inquiry. But it is clear that, today, his claim, in this inquiry, is not to defend the interests of the users of Catalonia, but, basically, to defend the General Administration of the State, even though the General Administration of the State has carried out a manifest leniency exercise on a service that is functional, which is basic in this country. And from here on, he asked, and he did, logically, and I am honored to have asked me in this sense, in relation to what the Government of Catalonia does. And he's put a whole set of elements and figures on the table, and arguments that support themselves relatively little. He said a first argument: "While the autonomous community of Madrid is able to make a lot of subway, to inaugurate it, to put it in service, the Generalitat de Catalunya, no. But there has been a fact that it is fundamental, that the Madrid metro that connects to the Barajas airport, basically, it is financial, it is paid with European funds, that it was forbidden at the time to the Generalitat of Catalonia to make line 9 of the metro, because line 9 of the metro we have had to assume in full ourselves, in full the citizens of that country, because we did not have the capacity to finance, of course, either by the General Administration of the State or by the European Union; of the European Union, among other things, because the Spanish State, unlike what happened in Madrid, was systematically denied. I thought that you would refer to it, that it would refer to that it is radically unfair that in a railway system, in a territory of the State, there may be certain aids, and, in another railway system, that these aids do not follow. And, for another band, you ask what the Government of Catalonia is doing. So, extend train lines. Miri, in the system of rolling stock and regionals of the State, in Catalonia, the managed by Adif – and this is very bad news, we do not rejoice, badly – since the year 1977, the network does not expand. Year 77 was the last time they built us kilometres of road operated in large Iberian – let's leave the high-speed train to the band. Therefore, we could say – we could say – that the Catalan rail system administered by Adif with a large number of Iberians is pre-constitutional; the last time it was an important reversal to example the network was precisely the year 77. And what does the Government of Catalonia do, despite the fact that it has very few resources? So make an ingenious effort, and make an ingenious effort prolonging Railways of the Generality of Catalonia, for example, to Terrassa – 400_million euros–; or make five new stations to Sabadell – 400_million euros more –; two stations that will enter into operation before September 11th, to Sabadell, and three new stations that will enter into operation before the spring of the year you see. This is a very important effort, while the State, while Adif does not increase the network, nor does it just unfold Vic's line – parentheses: ignominious, which, in the 21st century, still has a line, pretensely rolling, with a single lane, with a single way; it is simply ignominious, it is surprising. I Railways of the Generalitat obviously makes this effort. You were talking about Terrassa's situation; that's true. On Terrassa, once these new stations have entered service, a 46_per_cent more users have been captured. But do you know what Terrassa's problem is? It is that there was a transfer of eighty-thousand users who used railroads to Railways of the Generality of Catalonia, because with rollers they could not guarantee the reliability, punctuality, and quality of the service, while with Railways of the Generality, they guaranteed everything: reliability, punctuality, quality of the service. This is bad news for the Territorial Councillor of this country, because I am responsible for the Railways trains of the Government of Catalonia and I am the holder of the services, and our department is the holder of the services, too, operating around the rolling stock system. The problem is that we have neither control of trains nor control of lives, and that is why we cannot guarantee the quality of the train in the terms we have to guarantee. That's the problem, because there's been this transfer. That's the difficulty. And, before that, we expand the Generality Railroad capability. And I already announce that we are processing the purchase of fourteen new trains, precisely in order to be able to provide this service with the highest level of guarantees. This is what Generality Railways does; how it increases capacity, at these times, with many financial difficulties and without assumptions, because this Parliament decided that it did not approve the assumptions, expanding the capacity of the Provença station, for example; this is what the Generality Railways is doing. And, among other things, ensuring that punctuality is 99_per_cent. I mean, all these elements, all these value judgments that you make are vaporous, if you'll let me. But there are some data that are incontrovertible: 99_percent punctuality, Railways of the Generality; 84_percent punctuality, rolling; 49_percent punctuality, regional. And that's what we have to be caps to change and we have to be caps to reverse. And, therefore, we are moving in these terms. He said: "They have done little. In this legislature we saw how we opened twenty miles of automatic trainway. In the history of Europe never – never – had they suddenly put themselves in twenty kilometres of automatic driving. I say: "You don't do anything at all, mirin Madrid. It is that we do not want to assemble in Madrid, we want to take our own decisions. And then he asked us; he said to us: "And you went by the way of the content of your administration. Of course we're going, because of the content of the administration, and you know what? We don't do it alone, but we do it with the municipal world of Catalonia. And yesterday we signed a manifesto, jointly, the Generality of Catalonia, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, the Assembly of Barcelona and the Catalan Association of Municipalities. And the message was very simple: "True, let's face it. We have looked at it from every possible point of view: we wanted to negotiate with the State, we have agreed on investment plans that, systematically, have been incomplete. And here's where I'd like to be able to listen to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. I mean, I give him some data that's obvious, objective. First commitment: 4.000_millions of investment, 2008-2015 period, execution: 10_per_cent. As promised: we will prioritise those actions that allow the railway system of Catalonia to remain viable, 306_million euros. At these times, and the execution period ended on the September of 2016, in which there is only 4_per_cent of everything that was committed to investing. Do you know what we thought? And we have discovered, every day, that of..., the Adif world is passionate, as if we say, because to the principle we thought: "The commitments to which it comes are not fulfilled, simply because they are not supposed. But we've discovered something else, which is that what's supposed is not complete. The year passed, the year 2015, of every cent_euro Adif had to invest in Catalonia, only ran twenty-i-sis. Have I heard, by remote chance, the Ciutadans spokesman, on this subject, making any reference? No, I just don't. We, like the Government, will give all the explanations, but what would have been felt, what would have been logical is that..., before the concrete problems of the citizens of this country and before the impropie scenes of the 21st century, what would be appropriate would be that this Parliament, as a single man and as a single woman, not before defending an administration, but before defending the concrete people of this country. This is the commitment of the Government of Catalonia, of the Government of Junts for the Yes. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, there's the word "Ms. Marina Bravo."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.6.0	Well, I thought, you, that you should have referred to the incidences of infrastructure that are the competence of the Ministry of Development to make this inquiry. Wow, and I thought that when I started the interrogation by telling him that we're going to focus on what this government runs, there was no need to talk more about the infrastructure Adif manages. He tells me I came here to defend the Ministry of Development. Have you heard me say one good word about the Ministry of Development? He says it just because I haven't talked about those impacts on infrastructure, but, well, you tell me that I come here to defend the Ministry of Development, the first day, okay, but now we know each other a little bit. I think you know perfectly well the opinion I have on how the management of the railway infrastructure has been carried out in this last legislature and in some previous one. The Minister of Development may seem very good to me to chair a table, but, of course, the management of railway infrastructure has made it fatal, it has loaded them. The conventional network, we're talking about the conventional network, which is what we're talking about now. He's comparing us... of course, it's that, in the end, he hasn't answered one of the questions he asked him, he hasn't answered anything, not one of the issues that were within his competence. Thirty seconds he has spoken to say that he is going to put in new trains, and I had already asked him, precisely, what he was going to do to significantly increase the Generalitat's Ferrocarrils capacity, not just a little bit, he had already said so because he already expected this answer, or some small change in signage, but he has devoted a_minute to talking about the things that are his competence. It is comparing what the State invests in neighbourhoods and what the Generalitat invests in regional mobility. Regional mobility is essentially the competence of the autonomous communities. Compare it to other autonomous communities, because, how much does the Generalitat invest in high speed? High speed is the competence of the Government of the State; we cannot compare one thing with the other, they are two different things. Of course, he left me with little to say. Since you have not answered my previous questions either, I take the opportunity to ask you a couple more questions, which you have not spoken about: Do you consider railway safety regulations to be something capricious or simple bureaucracy that can be dispensed with? Do they feel that political interests as transcendental as an inauguration should be sufficient to jump over them? And in that case, would you assume responsibility in the event of a judgment? We are talking, of course, about the approval of the trains of the La Pobla line. Little more to say, because the only thing he has talked about is..., as always, to complain that all the fault is Madrid, and, of course, they are very guilty of the problems that the railway infrastructure has. We too want to solve them, we will do everything we can in Congress. And, I told you the first day, there are two things to do: one, to take care of what we manage, which is what we were talking about today, and another, to negotiate with loyalty, in the Government of Spain, the improvements for the network of closeness. It takes a profound change there, and, in Catalonia, it takes one way or another to get out of this dead end, but I assure you that when that happens it will be much easier to get the nearby trains back on track than to erase the marks that are leaving in this society, which are increasingly dividing it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.7.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.8.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if I've explained it to you, I've told you what efforts the Government of Catalonia is making. We are telling you that we are increasing our network, that we are improving with the Generality Railway signaling systems in the two lines, the Vallès line and the Llobregat-Anoia line, precisely to increase the capacity – we are telling you this. And we're telling him that we're buying trains, we're telling him that 800_million euros in reversal; that's what we're putting on the table, 800_million euros. And we compared it – we do have a right to compare it – to what does or does not do the General Administration of the State. And you obviously asked us in connection with this demand, with this appeal that we will submit to the State Administration. Miri, today I have sent a letter to the minister in charge of Foment; I have sent a letter to Mr Rafael Catalá saying two things: that I am acting on Adif, that is, that it cannot be that the ministry is simply doing the honour – that I am acting on Adif – and I have conveyed to him the feeling of indignation of the Generality of Catalonia, that it seems to me that it is the feeling of indignation of a very good part of the Catalan society. This has to be done. I therefore urge Adif immediately to comply with the commitments to be made. And, also, the Railway Safety Agency, this agency that has prevented the Lleida train to the people from entering service now two months and a half ago; improving commercial speed, improving frequencies. Instead– and let me say in these terms– to waste time in bureaucratic questions to Lleida, that the Railway Security Agency does an audit of all the railway network of ownership of Adif, because the trains are stuck with 250 people more than one hundred and fifty minutes is not to Lleida, it is not to the People, it is to the Lands of the Ebro, or that is, this morning, in the Maresme ; this is the problem of foundations. And I say so in those terms. Let's explain what happened with the people's train. We're talking about a line of eighty-nine miles. Of these eighty-nine kilometers there are 1.9 that are owned by the State, that are the last, that are the ones that connect precisely with the Adif station of Lleida – 1,9_quilometers–, and, here, we have had to pass a peril of two months and mig with an audit, pretensely, to ensure security. What did we ask for to ensure security? The front beam of these Swiss trains that the Generality Railways has purchased is of double filament, independent, while the Spanish regulations demanded double beam – for 1,9_kilometers, two_months and a half of delay. The Generality Railway train ticket, which we bought in Switzerland, is double and simultaneously operated; the Spanish standard requires independent operation – two months and a half with these services up to date. Senyalization for people with reduced mobility, in particular access to the washbasin, uses color codes different from the Spanish standard. That's what they asked us, that's the paralyzing bureaucracy. The Railway Security Agency, instead of entering at 1,9_kilometres, preventing the citizens of the Segria, the Noguera, the Pallars from enjoying an objective service better – better –, what should be done by this agency is what we ask the Minister of Development in office, which is to work there where there is the problem, which is to stand in front of the system that Adif manages and to say enough, and to demand that there be the investments that need to be made. That's what I was reporting the other day, and I'd do it all round again, to the people. It's unheard of, it's a real shame. Where there are institutions that try to put solutions where there are problems, there are objectively institutions that do simply create problems, and believe that there are some that make decisions and are required from a point of view of political power. This is the background problem and this is the situation that we need to be able to reverse. We, like the Generality of Catalonia, and you should feel very proud as a member of this Parliament, we have believed, for the sake of the citizens, that we know how to manage trains reasonably well. We ask for something so bold, Mrs Bravo, as much as they let us make our own decisions, that, in this case, in a very clear, very diaphanous way, surely the citizens of Catalonia benefit, because we provide them with a better service, a service worthy of the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on Catalan Communities Abroad]] [[300-00082/11]] Next: inquiry to the Government on the Catalan communities abroad, presented for the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.10.0	Very late everyone, also the people who are following us through the Parliament Canal, especially those Catalans residing abroad. The 2016 first-generation data of the National Institute of Statistics register a total of 414,000 people from the Catalan countries registered to the Spanish consulates of the world, and therefore they are people living outside the Spanish State. Of these, 264.034 are Catalans from the Principality, and this represents an increase of 120,000 people residing outside 2008 and until 2015, which is from the moment we have data. A rise, therefore, of 9.1_percent of people who have left, only in 2015, placing us in the highest percentage of recent migration history. If we speak, moreover, of the people hidden in Catalonia and residents outside the Catalan Countries, and according to the Continuous Master, also, of the National Institute of Statistics, probably 315,600 more people than we would add to these data, of people who reside outside the place where they were born. These figures do not include those who have adopted the nationality of the host country – they are, in addition, official data that do not usually spread's', nor the second or third generations of Catalans who have adopted, in addition, the nationality of the host country, and we are not talking about those people who have chosen not to give themselves high in the relevant consulate of the resident country. And, therefore, we suppose that the actual xifra of Catalans residing in the foreigner would be even higher than the one we have just detailed. The reasons for leaving a country, we know, therefore, are multiple; there may be family reasons, there may be academic reasons, work reasons, political reasons. In fact, we live in a country where many people have had to leave; we live in a country that has driven many people out of wars; we have many people who have had to go through the Pyrenees a little, not much, many of whom have never returned. And we have, too, many people who had to be exiled for political reasons, because this has been a country, a state of military dictatorships and death penalty. And I don't want to stop saluting, and taking advantage of the fact that we have between us, Mr. Diego Paredes, brother of Txiqui, one of the last of the franchises. [[Greetings.]] These people, an example of dignity and resistance, are certainly not exactly the same profile of people who are now leaving; surely, the majority of people who are now leaving their country do so, basically, for work reasons. And it's that something has happened, surely, in these past years, that explains this exponential increase in people leaving, and this paradigm shift in migration demography. We have gone from being a country, above all, of people who come to live and work, to being a country that follows people who come, but we are a country, now, that, above all, sends people out. We, who make a reading on the basis, therefore, of these migratory movements, which starts, logically, from an economic reading, know that one of the structural characteristics of the capitalist system is this: to provide this mobility of human resources in the most beneficial way at every moment, depending on its interests and its economic and geographical priorities. Marx already said this when he defined migrations, as the liberation of the work of the ancient regime; people who emigrated because they were expelled from traditional societies, once capitalism was established. In this sense, we are aware that the deep reasons, the deep causes and the structural measures to be taken in order to prevent people from leaving in a forced way – as to people who have to leave voluntarily – are these measures that we must, logically, adopt on the basis of another economic and productive model. And, therefore, we, who make a feminist reading of the fate of capitalism, are aware that until we change our economic model and produce we will continue to have the working class at the mercy of these migratory movements that reserve our capital. What happens is that today's inquiry does not focus on it so much to bet on another economic and product model, that it would be of interest to us enough, but that we simply try to make appeals with regard to the "while, on the day-to-day of these people, the daily lives of these people who live abroad, and that, therefore, we understand that they have very concrete characteristics, situations, which is what, in a synthetic way, therefore, we are aware that the Government of the Generalitat takes note of and who we are asking about in relation to these requests; requests that have been formulated, as the honourable Member probably ought to know, in an appearance that has been made to the Committee of the outsiders and to whom they are asked in relation to these requests; requests that have been made, as they are, in fact, in a way that the Government of the Generalitat will have to take note and to whom we are asking for the main concerns of the past 28 of the International Federation have been explained. We know that they laid down, they laid down on the table that they have been assuming a non-volgued paper; in any case, therefore, they have assumed it voluntarily, spontaneously and often in solitary form, in the gathering of many people, therefore, who have gone to live to the countries where they also emigrated one day, and have become advisors, co-workers and companions of these people who came to live in these countries. They also suggested that 21_percent of people living abroad – and therefore some 120,000 people – are under the age of sixteen, and that this also raises very concrete needs in the teaching and transmission of Catalan language. And they are, too, those entities that are putting their resources and their time in order to make it possible for them to examine the teaching of Catalan language for these boys and girls, for these children abroad. They also laid out the entire chapter on the rights of political participation. They are people who, although they have left, have a right to vote, and, as you know, and come up with a 2010 reform of the LOREG, which introduces the unfortunate Article 75 of the petitioned vote, this has made it very difficult for the political participation of the people who saw outside their country. We remember that this article 75 and the law reform were supported by the People's Party, the PSOE, the Socialist Party, and the Convergence and Union of that time, the BNG and the PNV, while a good part of these political parties have recognized that this was a regrettable mistake, because the data are very obvious: we have gone from the indices of participation in the electoral committees of the residents outside that they oscillate between 28 and 34_per_cent, and the last figures put us on the table of participations that range from 3 to 7_per_cent in the present day. Therefore, it is clear that this law reform has meant a shield in the political participation of these people. These are, I insist, synthetically and succinctly, some of the requests made by the people of the Catalan communities outside the table, and the suitability of working was raised, so all these measures in the context of the approval of a law. In any case, we ask you to plant it today, at the gates of the summer, and certainly, when many of these people, who may, will want to take advantage of it to come visit yours here, and, therefore, knowing that September will have the opportunity to be present at the annual assembly of this international federation. And so, we think it's a good time for the government to tell us what the answer is that it's working on dealing with all these petitions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.11.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to the Counsellor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Raül Romeva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many thanks, honourable Member, for, indeed, as you say, this is a matter of concern to thousands of people. And, therefore, from this point of view, it deserves not only the attention of the Government and Parliament, but, I would say, of the country's conjunct. And, therefore, from this point of view, I repeat, is absolutely relevant. The analysis, the diagnosis that you personally share and the government shares. It is obvious that when we speak and think of the Catalan community abroad, we think of a very different community, an absolutely transgenerational community. We are talking about one hundred and forty communities, at these times, organizations; after there are no others, or other people, who are not part of this organized environment; but, only organizations, we are talking about one hundred and forty communities of Catalans and Catalans today from the world, many of whom are, many of them, in the same country; that is to say, one country has various communities. And, therefore, from this point of view it is also very important to understand that the needs are very different, either because of the profile of these communities or because of the country where they are located. It is absolutely true, and I also share the fact that when we think of who are the services to be provided to these communities, we have to do so in a very selective way, in a very conscious way of the moment we live in, but also, very responsible with the years, and I would say, to all intents and purposes, previous decades. You have pointed out this, and it is absolutely relevant to remember it: the presence outside the Catalan community has often been the fruit of war, or wars; it has been the fruit of dictatorship periods, and therefore of the political persecution that has characterized them, and it is the fruit of it, at these times, also in a particularly dramatic way on the youngest people..., for a series of causes of structural character, of economic character, of model character; where you set up, the model that at these times makes a lot of people, sometimes, before the image of will, in reality, what is a necessity, because there are no alternatives here, and end up leaving. Therefore, we have a very different reality that has also changed the profile, also from the point of view of age, from this community to the outside. In fact, and this is one of the things I've been learning, too, in these last years, or have been known in these last years, what we find is that this..., the economic crisis, in reality, the mark of the economic crisis in which, in these last years, we have been, to say the least, engaged, has caused a huge increase in young people, until, at these times, 20_per_cent– 20_per_cent– from the Catalan population to the outside is less than seven years, and, therefore, from the point of view of the needs that this community has, it is obvious that it marks a lot, also, the things that we want to allocate there. The figures that you planted, 264,000 people only in 2016, to me it seems that they are a cause for reflection. And this new reality is precisely what, now a year ago, motivated, inspired that mobility plan that was adopted, which the Government adopted, and which, at these times, marks the lines of an interdepartmental strategic framework – after which I will refer to it in a specific way – but which, to a great extent, is a plan that makes it necessary to put on the table those questions, from the practical point of view. It is perhaps remarkable, or the most remarkable of this initiative, when we call the 'law or reform of the law or the 'project of law from the Catalan community to the outside, which began to walk, which was stunned – to put it this way – by the electoral circumstances of the last months, but which, in any case, is our will, is our intention to put another time on the table. And that, in fact, in this process of elaboration of this law, of this bill of law from the Catalan community to the outside, what we intend is to gather many of the reflections that you have made and that, in fact, from the same community to the outside, when they were planted here in Parliament, they were already done. Therefore, ours, I repeat, intention, as a government, is that we can start talking already about the Catalan communities abroad, as subjects of right. This is an aspect that is no less, especially for what it does to concrete character issues. Beyond the scope of the law – which, I repeat, we will be able to extend after a little longer – I would like to make some concrete instruments manifest. You were talking about "while I think it's important to put emphasis on some things that, at these times, are on the march or that are getting better to put this job in value. In the first place: the register; the Catalan external register that was created in the year 2014 and that, in reality, has an objective, has the basic function of being able to know, first hand and more immediately, who are the needy, the real needs of the community externally, and..., therefore, from here, establish what the lines of action of the Government must be at the level of different departments. At these times, what has happened – and, in fact, linked to the register as the processing tool – is working in an interdepartmental area, and this affects some of the aspects that you have considered: teaching, education, but also health and governance and other related aspects, in order to ensure that the basic needs of these communities are covered. And, in fact, in this sense, I have already announced it, in fact, it is not that it was secret, but in any case, since we are talking about this, it is opportune to say that, precisely, one of the complaints that has been made is the lack of information, and we are preparing, precisely, an information campaign in this sense. Not to explain anything that many people surely already know, but yes, perhaps, not enough people know, and the people who, more than that, are more interested in knowing, maybe they don't always have all the information in the abst as hot. And so, in this sense, I'm aware of this size, we've been working and we're working in a campaign that very, very quickly and very soon, we can make public. The second line that you have outlined and that seems especially significant to me and that, moreover, it is, if I may say so, that it is the right to vote, the right to be able to vote, the right to be able to participate in the whole series of acts, all the less the right to act, and, therefore, the demand made widely by these communities which, in other words, are not prisoners, as the last election events have been, of this kind means, in part – if I may, and with all frankness – of the incompetence of the Spanish State at the time of allowing this external vote. It wasn't random, let's face it, it wasn't a casual incompetence, it was absolutely premeditated, and that I think we also have to say with all the letters. But, despite that, the Government of Catalonia can do some things. What are you doing? In fact, this very week has been presented on behalf of the governess, Mrs Borrás, an initiative that, as a government, we have had to finish, precisely, to solve this question of the electronic vote, which has to see, obviously, with a legislative process that will start, but also, at the same time, with a technical capacity, that we need to be able to finish this practical. It is a priority, we are very conscious, and precisely because of this, the vocation of this government is, in the terms of time that we have at these times marked ourselves – that, as you know, just a year ago – to be able to do so. It's feasible, it's perfectly feasible. And, therefore, from the point of view of this government's will, if we can end our responsibility, this question will be resolved. And the third question that seems to me, too, is important to make manifest: one of the demands that have been widely felt by the community outside is, of course, the lack of economic support as well – also economic support. You make it one aspect that is no less, that is that many times you have had to assume the role of receivers, gatherers, of all those nine emigrations, because, obviously, they are the first connection they have. When you go to another country, obviously, to whom you are going to seek help or support or comfort is to the people of your country, which is, many times, at these times, the only possibility they have for lack of presence, also institutional. Also, in this sense, our intention is to maintain the economic support that has been made in the last few years, despite the situations that, as you know, are not easy, but that we understand that they are, at these times, essential. And, at the same time, remember that in the perspective of the assumption that we had to discuss, to plant in this chamber, there was a series of initiatives, such as the practices of young professionals of Catalan communities abroad that, unfortunately, in this sense and with this specificity, they could not face. It will be useful to look for different alternatives that allow us to attack this issue. And as for the question, also, linguistics or, even, cultural. I think this isn't a minor issue, it's a very important issue and especially when one is living in another country. Here there is an active policy through the Department of Education, but also through the Department of Culture, to promote all kinds of activities, especially from the point of view of protection and language monitoring, which must allow us to ensure that these people who are abroad have all the possibilities, as if, precisely, they are living here as well. These are just a few examples. There's not much more. And in any case, then, in the reply, if any of these have not remained sufficiently detailed, it will be a pleasure to be able to go deeper into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.13.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, there's the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.14.0	Yes, thank you very much. In the first place, we fully agree with the need to make a broadcast campaign with regard to the Catalan and Catalan register residing abroad, which seems very significant to us. Since the year 2014 we only have 4,500 registered people. It is obvious that, with the figures we have given, and this level of inscriptions, beyond the lack of willingness that some people may have if they are not registered..., it is that, surely, there is a lack of an institutional campaign of diffusion at this level. And we... that we think we need to start pushing for initiatives that get us out of the autonomic mark, this would be a very timely one. Because we are, you said, in the face of an economic crisis. He knows that we are not in favour of naming him "crisis; we believe that, sooner or later, everything is a real scam. In the framework of this scam, therefore, economics, but in the framework of this democratic crisis that we are living and that some of us are willing to overcome, precisely, they allow people to express themselves democratically, which is as we understand, some of us, politics, we live an exceptional moment. And, therefore, this exceptional moment, which we want to contribute to making it exceptional, requires that all people who wish to participate in it; participate in what we believe to be the exercise of sublime democracy that we can achieve in this country, which is a reference in which people are able to express and in which all these people must have the instruments to be able to do so. And we also understand that we have a challenge that goes beyond democratic expression and that we are pursuing, precisely, a redefinition and radicalization of democracy and that we are improving all those aspects that are opportune for us to improve in the context of the creation of a new country, which is a process, in which we also have to think about what lives of open participation respect all people who see abroad. Therefore, an institutional campaign to disseminate the register seems essential to us. We understand that this law from the Catalan to the outside community, which can contain, therefore, all this range of linguistic rights, cultural rights, participation rights, social rights, health rights, is absolutely essential, and, what we also understand is that, in the very elaboration of this legislative project, the Catalan communities participate in the outside world. Organisations, in the first term; but let us also think, in which way can the people who are not yet constituted as such outside, but who have the right to say theirs, participate. We insist that we believe that we must start doing different things to announce that we are at a political moment without precedent in this country. And what can't happen is that, at the gates of the so-called referendum for some, we only have a hundred registrants who accompany such a small percentage of people. Therefore, the challenge would have been the same a few years ago with respect to people who are living abroad and who need to be able to guarantee the learning of language or access to sanitation without difficulties, but at this point the challenge is capital and we need all people residing abroad, regardless of their political choice, ideology or their position before a referendum or a process is, having guaranteed their participation lives. Therefore, it is true that it is a reptile of country, but above all, the Government has a reptile capital making democracy possible also for those people who do not live in our house.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.15.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.16.0	Thank you very much. Indeed, and, in fact, to put emphasis on this issue; look, just as we have given information, in all the visits we make to the outside, there is an agenda that is required – I say it because there are many people who are very concerned about what we are doing outside. One of the things we always do, unfailingly, when we go out, is find ourselves with the communities, in plurality, because, obviously, as you say, there are some that are organized, others that are less, and, even more, within the organizations, there is everything. That is to say, there are people who ideologically cover more with some theses and others, with others. And not always, obviously, when we talk, we talk to people who either share our full path, or our ideological or political ideas, but which, in turn, forms part of what we call the ‘Caltan community abroad, and which has the same rights and has to have the same rights. And, as a government, we are obliged to offer the same guarantees that they can do everything that, as citizens, I repeat, rightfully, they have. One of them is this right to participate democratically – I repeat it, and as you very well pointed out – regardless of ideological options, in all debates and in all votes and in all participations of, so to speak, public representation, which, at these times, we have and will keep in the future, because many of them are on the way. Therefore, the possibility of being able to provide us with this channel is peremptory, it is urgent. That's why it's so important that we're putting on a roll, that it's the electronic vote, that, as you also know, and, come on, I understand that we share it, it has a radical solution, that it's obviously giving us our own electoral law and our own, and we don't have to depend on the law of the State. As such, at these times, it is what we are doing, but while we also want to give guarantees that all these people can participate, at this time, that it is absolutely decisive, we want to put into practice this instrument, which, too, allows me to say, it is not immediate, that is to say, it needs two things that are necessary. One, a legislative character modification, and, as such, has a period of time; the other, to put it this way, equip us with a technical character structure, which has perfectly explained it these days to Constellera Borràs, and which also needs a little time. There are two procedures that need to be done, precisely, to ensure that in the next few months we can have this tool activated. From the point of view of the participation, also put in value not only what you thought, but also, also, the fact that, in these own months, in fact, concretely, in September, there are various findings that are key. In America, for example, we will find the different communities that are on that continent, but Europe is also expected to find a significant number of these communities, as is done regularly, and also Catalonia, as is done, also periodically. At all these times, as a department and as a counselor, I have all the vocation and the will to be able to participate, but not only at the personal level, but also as a department. Because it is not a matter of making an act of presence, but, precisely, also, of putting us, as the department and as the government, at the service of these communities. In fact, September 9th, in concrete terms, is when the meeting of the Council of the Catalan Communities will take place abroad, which, as you know, is the organ of consultation and participation of the Catalan communities. And in this sense, too, obviously, it's a better space, like everyone else. And, surely, all the participation mechanisms that have been in place so far can be reviewed, and, in fact, it is the will of this government to be as dynamic and as participatory as possible. In fact, in this sense, it is when we invite all the political and institutional actors who participate, also, in these findings, these meetings, so that, precisely, we can not only capture who are the needs of these communities but, above all, we can give them an answer. And that's why we also have all the organs that make foreign policy... from some point of view – whether at the business or economic level, or at the tourist level, whether at the Ramon Llull Institute or through the same delegations that we have, at these times, distributions – can give all the possible guarantee of response to all these moments. Why? But that's precisely why you pointed out and that, I repeat, I fully agree, because we're in a transition phase, and this transition phase, which has nothing to do with the historically recognized Transition, is a transition phase, it's a state, but it's a phase that goes from one situation to the other, and at this stage we can't leave anyone out of it. And in this context, we are talking about thousands of people who, obviously, physically are out, because they are in another country, but emotionally, nationally and in terms of rights they have all, all, all, or must have, if I may say so, all the guarantees that will form part of this process. That's the will. From here on, the issue of tools and communication is one of the challenges that we have, that we enter, and that, therefore, through requests, which, too, obviously, have brought us to for other lives different communities of the outside, we assume as our own responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.17.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about educational segregation]] [[300-00081/11]] The third item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on educational segregation, presented by the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Si que es Pot. To expose her, has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.18.0	[[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't make me laugh. [[The joker laughs.]] Well, counselor, good afternoon to everyone. Now eight years ago the Greuges Synod presented to this very Parliament a report in which it alerted about school segregation and highlighted the need to correct it. So, well, eight years later we find that the Synod of Greuges has had to remake a new report on the same subject that warns that the recommendations formulated in 2008 have only been partially and timidly complemented, and, moreover, ensures that the situation has not improved, but is stagnant. In fact, the three main conclusions drawn by the syndic after analysing the situation are that the Department of Education does not develop sufficiently intensive policies and decisions to combat school segregation from the administration of the student admission process; moreover, that in the process of admission a political priority that does not give school segregation, and, moreover, the syndic also stresses that the Department of Education does not fully recognize the problem of school segregation nor contributes to generating collective awareness about the need to combat the system's fairness as usual. He will advise, surely you will now come out and, along with self-criticism, he will talk about all the measures that have been taken, the leaps of the system and the fact that each time the academic results are more similar between the upper and lower fringes, but the reality is that if we were better the syndic would not have dedicated himself to making a report on school segregation, but would have made it about another topic. Clearly, what has been done until now or is not good or has been insufficient; we will not go to value it, because this is not important. The important thing is to look for the best solutions and the best proposals to improve social cohesion in the school. When we speak of school segregation, we refer to the concentration of educational complexity in certain schools. And what it supposes are very clear consequences: the principles of non-discrimination, equality of opportunity and social cohesion are violated, and, moreover, the children of these centres do not fully develop their learning potential. School segregation is especially negative for students with less cultural and economic capital, more difficulties in schooling and less educational opportunities; it is to say that we are carrying education as a tool of equal opportunity for children with more difficulties, follow the cause that follows. As you see, it is a country issue that requires height of vision and a social pact, a social pact among all agents, because its main repercussions will be seen in the future in the next generations. And if we share a vision of collaborative and non-competitive education – which I think we do – we can't exclore a part of our infants from the best opportunities and from the best training. Counsel, you often talk about the resources that are allocated to the centres of high complexity, which have smaller rates, of the contracting of us masters for these schools, and, moreover, that the centers of education have been a species of candy where the consequences of the crisis seem that they have not arrived, because you say that we are better in fairness. So, it doesn't look like it's good, and it's that one of the things we're supposed to think about is how long they don't review the criteria to decide whether a center is of high complexity or not and what happens to all the centers that are at the extreme of Gauss's bell, which aren't very close, but they don't get to be centres of high complexity and also see very complicated situations. And another question that we should discuss is a new student admission decree to avoid school segregation, which many times – and we talked about it the other day, to the same Board of Education – is not so much between public and private ownership centres, but it is also often concentrated in public ownership centres. And here's when we find ourselves with the dilemma of completing with two aspects that backward the LEC: on one side, the free choice of center, and, on the other, promoting the principles of equity, inclusiveness and promotion of social cohesion. And we need to see how we're compatible with these two criteria, which both come together for you. So far, the standard mark and the available tools have been used to fight segregation. The establishment of educational areas, the opening of new centres and lines, the expansions or the reduction of the rate, the reserve places for students with specific educational needs or even all the inscriptions between primary and secondary centres are examples of instruments at the abst of the Administration to improve segregation, but they have not been specifically intended for this purpose. But it is true that we do not have a homogenous reality throughout Catalonia, and the differences between municipalities are substantial: if we find that Barcelona, Terrassa, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Sabadell, Tarragona, Lleida, Esplugues, Sant Joan Despí and a lot more municipalities have a high degree of segregation, at the other end, and as references, we have Alcanar, La Llagosta, Badia, Abrera, Castello d'Empúries, La Bisbal, Banyoles and Sant Andreu de la Barca, just to give some examples. Some of them even have an important part of the immigrant population. Therefore, the good results achieved in these municipalities are the result of good policies active in the distribution of the students, not by chance. And it's that we have several fears that need to be improved, and I'm going to comment on some of them. I don't know what he's doing to them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The joker laughs.]] Oh, okay. Municipalities with more private schools tend to have higher levels of school segregation. This, whenever private centres are not responsible for enrolling students with more difficulties, which must be acknowledged that there are some private schools involved in the struggle against segregation. Moreover, school segregation is higher in each bar than urban segregation; this means that we have room for manoeuvre. The procedure followed – of the department – to reduce the number of groups before pre-registration in the initial offer of public centres, while in the concerteds the suppression is produced in the final offer, clearly favors the concerted schools. Moreover, they are being irregular, mostly in concerted centres, related to the process of admission of the student, and this happens with the assignment of additional points to certain requests when they do not correspond, the enrolment of students from other courses to guarantee the continuity of the offer and the educational concert, the schooling of students to the centres without having them enrolled or the application of extensions of the rate without authorization. And the syndic's experience is that the Teaching Department doesn't get used to sanctioning these centers, and, besides, there's no office supervision. Commissions of admission guarantees and municipal school offices, which, moreover, have basic facilities for achieving balanced schooling, are often unprofitable, underutilized and dismantled. In addition, there is a significant lack of transparency in assigning seats to families who, without being assigned to offices, have been assigned to second and other request centres, and a lack of objective criteria on how to assign offices. Nor is zoning being used as hot, since there are many municipalities that reproduce residential segregation with the school. There are still municipalities, like Montcada and Reixac, that do not comply with the obligation to establish the same areas of influence for the public and concerted centers, which makes some do not have a demand for similar characteristics. The provision of social workers to the EAP and other profiles needed to detect specific educational needs is clearly insufficient to develop the task as important as they do. And, moreover, he does not feel scrupulous about the compliment of Article 50.2 of the Law on guarantees of gratuity in private centres supported with public funds, since there is little – not to say no – transparency in the quotas they charge, but I will already talk a little more about this subject in the reply. What we want to know, in short, will advise, what we need to know is whether the department is willing to make a new decree of admission that can solve these obstacles to fight against school segregation and age because schools in different areas have a similar social composition between them. This is why we need to develop instruments that affect the equitable distribution of the students, not only because of the specific educational needs, but also because of the social categories, such as the economic level and the education of families. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.19.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply to the Teaching Councillor, Mrs Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.20.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first place, in order not to seem rude, I wasn't laughing at the subject, was I? , was greeting the Speaker of the Parliament; therefore, she only laughed at this. Let's say it's important that the Parliament has an interest in doing just that question from the report that came out, from the Synod of Greuges, on school segregation. As in the department, we have not only read very carefully, as is our obligation, this report, but we have already met with all the team that made this report to discuss the different aspects that it has put on the table, but also taking into account, therefore, the opinions and investigations of other experts in this area. And we see that this is a global challenge that, unfortunately, does not have a single solution, because, if not, with all the different governments of the Generality that have made it in this country, someone would have found a solution. There is not a single solution, not just sometimes, a solution, but what there are instruments that can help reduce segregation and help make the centers more diverse. Segregation is present in all open societies and with social diversity. There are countries – I've visited some – where they don't see it as a topic to deal with, which..., this is dangerous, but..., advanced societies, European countries where they have schools with one hundred_per_cent– one hundred_per_cent – immigration, and don't think this is a problem. In Catalonia, yes, and historically, the different governments have regarded the school as a tool of social cohesion and integration, and have acted with more or less intensity, depending on the governments, on two areas: not only on the policy of admission of students – which also – but also on support policies at the centres. In admission policies – and some of them are appointed by the trustee – there are different instruments. As you know, there is a reserve of places for students with special educational needs, there are courses, there is the detection of students with specific educational needs, there are areas of influence – you too have not made any – or there is the inscription of centers, among others. But there are also support policies at the centres, as they are or have been, in this country, and they follow it, the classrooms, the additional facilities at the centres most in need, the diversity profiles or the language and intercultural advisors. As you can see, many of these actions – and you too have not done so – also depend on the co-responsibility between different administrations, from the department to the joint. You have made a list of different city centres of different colors that highlight the differences that may exist between the municipalities, and therefore the important and vital role that the municipalities also have in segregation. Because segregation is a social reality, and our Catalan society is neither homogeneous nor homogeneously structured in the conjunct of territories. The school, in fact, in Catalonia is and has been an authentic tool of social cohesion, because it brings people from many cultures, from different socioeconomic backgrounds, from different family compositions. And the school is and it was the main tool to overcome the origin conditions of our students. Therefore, we – as I believe that you, too – understand the school as a tool that co-ordinates very different people, that weaves synergies between them and that prevents the differences existing – because they are – become accentuated, and guarantee equal opportunities. Many of the studies indicate that segregation is not so much due to the origin of the people, but because of the educational profile of the families. And recent studies also indicate that one of the important aspects is the expectations that families have in school. There is an important study, because it is the only one that has taken place in Spain at the longitudinal level, in different areas, which explains this precisely as one of the main factors... ; it is to say, many families that have come to this country to look for a better future, that their parents do not have studies but do have much expectation in the fact that their children are integrated and have studied. And that's the main integration tool they have for their children. We agree, in the background, with the report that the Synod of Greuges has issued in the fact that it would be able to vet for a department, a distribution – let me hide it like this – more equitable than the student, but also in the fact that it is able to vet for the right of families to choose the center they want for their children. How do we work from the Department of Education to fight social segregation and improve educational equity? You were talking about segregation and you were talking about fairness. We believe that to fight segregation the best is to fight for equity. And what is education equity? So, a report by two scholars and specialists on the subject, such as Dr. Isaac González and Ricardo Benito..., tells us that educational equity consists of distributing educational resources in response to the different educational needs that each student has. It is, therefore, a bet to give more resources to those who need them most. And that's exactly what the Teaching Department does and what we've been doing the past few years. You said: "And now he will tell us that the department makes a bet... Yes, but it is also what the experts tell us that we have to do to fight for equity. They also know that we realized, from the Department of Education, a few years ago, the pedagogical audits, which allowed us to see which of those centers had more difficulties in settling educational outcomes. And from here they provided these centres with additional resources, and above all to provide them with a follow-up on those actions that had to be carried out in order to progressively improve their indicators. We have also explained to them that, for this year, unfortunately, therefore, that we have not been able to approve the assumptions, it will again provide more finance and resources to those centers that need it most. The proof that these years – you have said, too – has been reduced by the inequalities we find precisely in the tests of basic skills that have been made in Catalonia in the last two years. The percentage of students who are placed in low-competence fringes is each time smaller; therefore, each time we have fewer students who stop the tests of basic competitions. And that's just working for fairness, that's getting all our students..., that the maximum number of students can graduate to continue studying in post-compulsory studies, that's the main fact that will make them have an equal opportunity. We don't only have these instruments, we also have the programming instrument. They know that the department wanted to make the right of families compatible to be able to sort out a centre and social cohesion. In times of demographic collapse – last week we had an opportunity to say so in the committee – not to act, not to do anything and to leave it to the free demand of families leads to an increase in stigmatization. And it's not what we say, it's also what the Greuges Synod says; in his own report, when the summary is executed, on page 17 he says to us: "The existence of areas with oversupply, with more school places than demands, contributes to the fact that centres with lower social demand cannot cover their places. And also the same syndic, when he talks about more significant developments in the management of the student admission process, tells us: "The programming criteria of the offer of P3 public facts for the Department of Education for the 16-17 course incorporate giving the maximum opportunity to families, but also want to avoid the stigmatization of the schools in disadvantaged surroundings or to age for the continuity of all the educational projects of the schools. This does not necessarily mean abolishing places in centres with less social demand or extending the offer in those they most have. Therefore, one of these measures that we have already done, which we have already done since this new government, has also been endorsed by the Synod of Greuges. Despite this, we are aware that we continue to have challenges, and the department, therefore, has set out to work on this issue so as to give it a satisfactory answer in terms of fairness and equal opportunities. The actions that we are due to eventually are to identify and obtain objective statistical data in relation to the level of study – so let's say that this is not one of the main elements – and the occupational situation of the pairs of our students of the Education Service of Catalonia; also apply statistical techniques that allow assigning to each center a level of complexity fonamentati in variables of socioeconomic character. And let's say it doesn't really update the whole list of centres of maximum complexity; in fact, if I don't remember it... it's less than a year ago that we've updated all this list of centres of maximum complexity. Beyond that – in any case, I don't have much time left, but we will do it later – we also have to take into account an important aspect, which is demography. No European country – no European country – has rejected such an important foreign population as Catalonia in such a short time. And that meant a continuous adaptation of our education system. And in Catalonia, moreover, unlike other autonomous communities, this population has been very different in origin, i.e., different cultures, different languages, different values. The government, at the time – it was another government – to give a quick answer to schooling..., they were strongly conditioned by themes of residence – is to say, there are many studies that say that there is no segregation more important than residential segregation –; also much conditioned by the offer that exists, of that moment – is to say, students arrive at you and you have the centers you have, and you have to give response with the centers you have – and by the ability, also, to create new schools. This government has the will to take advantage of this moment, when we no longer have this great entrance of people who come from outside, but, sadly, on the contrary, who leave us, to make a longer-term process. And we are appreciating the possibility of creating an observer of equity in the system, with the following objectives: to help guide and update educational policies and actions of all public administrations in order to advance, precisely, in terms of equity and inclusion; to work with Catalan universities to promote research in the field of equity and equal opportunities; to provide knowledge to enhance cross-cutting policies in the Generality department; and to promote actions aimed at achieving the involvement of civil society in the deployment of these policies of equality and equity. Well, anyway, then, later, I'll leave some more data.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word Ms. Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.22.0	Thank you, Counselor. Well, we seem to have a good starting point, because we all share that it's a problem, that it's a global challenge, that it doesn't have a single solution, and, besides, things are being done, like – no? , what you commented – the collection of statistical data to know the educational and income level of families and the possibility to create this observer. Therefore, it seems very good to us, but we go one step further, and we believe that we must bet on the creation of a social pact which, moreover, makes all these measures possible without depending on the colour of each government. Before I spoke to him about the report of the syndic of Greuges, and now I will talk to him about the study of the Bofill Foundation, which warns that educational inequalities in Catalonia have taken place in the last two years. According to the authors, the percentage of students at risk of school failure is six times – six times – higher in students with lower socioeconomic levels, hence the importance of fighting segregation. According to this foundation, this evidence shows that the Catalan education system fails to neutralize social differences during the education period and distribute the results independently of the family origin. And, moreover, it emphasizes that school segregation significantly harms the PISA results of all students, the favors and the disfavors; but, to be sure, the most harmed students are the first- and second-generation immigrants, an important fact if we take into account that – as the syndic says – the public title schools are three times more strangely educated than the concerts, mainly in some cities like now Lleida. Therefore, we believe that it is more important than ever to draw up a new decree regulating the admission of the student, and, by the way, to expand the instruments available to combat school segregation. Some of them have already been mentioned, such as the establishment of ratios of students with specific educational needs per centre, the expansion of the reserve of student places with specific educational needs at the course level, the establishment of a reduction in the ratio of more than P3 to reduce the mobility between centres at the length of schooling, the regulation of the convenience of not attending the student with specific educational needs beyond the terms of the high complexity centre, the strengthening of the functions of the admission guarantee commissions in the management of the out-of-term enrolment, the transparency on vacant places in centres an approved copy of the student report adm and also after the regular enrolment period, the transparency on the registration in the post-programming centres, and the termination of the registration in the public post-programming centres. And in this sense, we believe that both during the period of admission of petitions and at enrollment all the concerted centres provide families with a paper with information prepared for the government that reflects the current legislation referring to the gratuity of all the public and concerted centres. Therefore, they will not be able to claim, from these centres, from the families, nor from these moneys for free character teachings or contributions in the concept of registration reserve; nor will they be able to impose the obligation to make contributions to foundations or associations, and it will not be possible to require the acquisition of material to purchase in the same centre or in certain establishments. Perhaps you will tell me that the contributions of the concerted schools are voluntary, and so it should be. Therefore, I am sure that there will be no inconvenience in the fact that, if voluntary contributions are requested, they do so every school year by sending a written request where it is explained that it is voluntary, and that it is necessary to sign the families to express consent, and it should also be reflected that at any time it can be revoked, this contribution. And – I'm finished – she advises, for us education is a state structure, and I am convinced that for you too, at least that's what they say. So now they're just trying to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.23.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.24.0	Madam Member, I think we agree to deal with this subject from the point of view of rigor. Also tell him that many of these instruments are already in the law; lack of will, not only on the part of the department – which has not – but also of the municipalities, to serve him. I put to him the case of Barcelona, among others, because, therefore, members of his parliamentary group also exist. Barcelona..., one of the basic instruments that the syndic says, such as the reserve of places for special educational needs, had never applied it; it had never applied it until five years ago. Therefore, it is not only the will of this department – which is it, because we have done it – but of all the municipalities, to want to apply the instruments, many of them already provided for in our regulations. You made them from the Bofill Foundation and your report a few years ago. I do..., insist on the data update, because, if not, we stay in those data that are no longer real. The weakness in our country is true that it was 30_per_cent, but now it is almost new for each of your students to graduate from school. So we've reduced it a lot, and we have to go on, because what we want is for everyone else to go on, but we're a long way from that 30_per_cent. And in school drop-out, too: we've been through 28 percent drop-out, from those kids who don't continue to study..., the data from the last quarter were around 18 percent. But I also let some facts get back to me that I think are important to get the debate straight. The reports that we make through the Higher Evaluation Board, the PISA tests and the basic skills they give us are a very important element, and it is that as our students..., the outsiders or the outsiders, but born here, spend more years in the education system, it significantly improves their results. We're treating the entire population outside as if it were the same, and it has nothing to do with this culture, and we're treating all our students as if it were just like entering P3 or entering after ESO, and that's not exactly what it is. Look, some data, the age at which the foreign alumni arrived in Catalonia: 36_per_cent arrived between zero and five years; 33_per_cent between six and nine; 21_per_cent between god and thirteen years, and 9.7, between fourteen and seven years. Obviously, a student who reached the god at the age of 11, at the age of 13, cannot be asked for the same as a student who has been educated since P3. And, on the other hand, we do have the data that says that there is a clear tendency to get a higher score from the tests of basic competitions as the student more years ago arrived in Catalonia. Thus, at the Catalan language, for example, the student who arrived when he was between zero and five years old obtained a score of 72.5 – therefore, above 70, which is the level of basic competence – while the student who arrived between fourteen and seven years old – did not between zero and five, but between fourteen and seven years old – did not get 58. Obviously, for many of these people the català is not their usual language. So, man, having arrived between fourteen and seven years, being able to test and have a result of 58..., of course we expect them to arrive at 70, but what's certain is that our students, as the most years go to school, less is the difference between the students here and the outside. That is precisely why we need to take account of these data, so that we can determine well who are the educational policies we need to do. Another date that you gave was to expand the reserve of places; it is done, before it was until June, now it is until September, before starting the course. Reduction of rates, too. And many of the others that you've mentioned to us, so they're already in the law, and the only one that needs to be done – and here we also have the intention to talk to the mixed committee between the municipalities and the Department of Education – is to work specifically, because, as you said, the tools are for everyone, and in one place they're serving and not others. Therefore, we have to work with the gatherings because everything else can be done. You're still on the side of the concerted centers, unfortunately..., you said at the beginning, 20_per_cent is explained in the difference between public and concerted, and 80_per_cent is explained in the same title. But in any case, we remain courageous, or we remain sincere; if we speak of gratuity, we speak of real gratuity. Let us go to the National Education Pact, let us go to the Education Law: we have free schooling throughout the school, and, obviously, we will have more instruments to claim this distribution; but, obviously, that means giving more money to the school, and I don't know if at this point you would agree. But let's know that it's also one of the instruments that the syndic puts on the table, that's to say, we have more resources so that schooling is free for everyone– in fact, the money doesn't go to the concerted school, but goes to the families–; when the family has made sure that the place is free at all times, it can be sorted with much more freedom, also, than with what it's sorted with now. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.25.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about universities]] [[300-00083/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is an inquiry to the Government on universities, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.26.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Members, Members, Councillor, well, therefore, you must remember that at the end of the year we approved unanimously a motion for a resolution calling on the Government to promote a national plan for industry. We all woke up, didn't we? , and we're all going, say, to converge on the need to reindustrialize the country, because surely the industry is the one that can generate more stable and more solid jobs, and, surely, the sector that also needs more training of the workers to power, so generate a positive dynamic for what it does to the economy. We say this precisely because we want to walk away from being a low-cost country, from being a country that wants to compete for the downsizing of costs and wages, and because – I think that's what we all agree on – we want to be a country that bases its economy on knowledge, value added, innovation, research and those elements that make the economy a much more dynamic and much more stable engine. So, well, in this environment, which we often talk about, it's more than essential to talk about universities, because where knowledge is generated, it's right at universities. And we wanted to dedicate today's inquiry from the Socialist Group to the universities, because it seems to us that, although we have better universities than a few years ago, it is also true that there are some problems to the universities that are wondering, and we believe that they need an important response from the government, given that we are already a few years of crisis and it seems – it seems – that we are emerging from a certain recession. And, therefore, from here we see a little our inquiry, which will – I hope – ask, in the subsequent motion, some commitments and some determinations on some issues that seem to us to be key. To begin with, we would like to talk about public funding for universities. Look, in the past few years the public assumption of public universities has fallen by 21_percent, the total expenditure of the public university has fallen by 21_percent, which is a very important figure. They're data from the University Observers of Catalonia. I will not say that we are inventing from the Socialist Group; it is bullshit from many studies that have gone on in recent years, because, as you can imagine, it is a matter of concern, and a great deal. Who cares about the present and the future of the country, he has to worry about the health of the universities. Therefore, a significant reduction in public finance, which mainly has its beginnings in the years 2011-2012. Miri, the last plan to improve the financing of public universities was approved..., 2007-2010, held this period; since 2010 we don't have any news. To put them in context, public universities are financed with a very little variable structural part, which is modified to the length of years very little, and a part which is actually variable, which is established by variable parameters, and this is where universities can actually – between comets – "competite with some elements. So, well, this plan for improving public university funding hasn't been updated since 2010, and so we don't have this funding complement for universities. This, of course, made it clear that there was this reduction that I was commenting on earlier. And we also have to say that there has been a substantial reduction in the number of university investments in teaching and research infrastructures. This, in the end, is also damaging, as we can imagine, the quality of our university, despite the fact that we are, every time, certainly for the effort and talent of our teacher and our students, pushing in the ranks. But we don't just stay in it either, because there's some data that we care about, and a lot. From the point of view of Catalan university spending, we find ourselves at 0.8_percent of GDP, while the OECD country average is at 1.27. So, we're not far away, we've got a long way to go, and it looks like what we're doing is going back, in terms of progress. Mirin, before this situation, the 2012 year the government decided to increase university fees by 67_per_cent. Yes, it also increased the scholarships, but insufficiently, as many studies tell us and as the Synod of Greuges, which warned about this lack of university scholarships, of jifra dedicated to university scholarships, which was obviously damaging, and much, the equal opportunities, the arrival to the university world. And, therefore, it alerts us to this aspect, to this important increase in taxes, which has placed us not only as the highest of the autonomous communities of the State, but also as one of the most cherished in Europe. And that, then, would surely have to worry us. They think there are countries, many countries, especially in northern Europe, where, for example, students are paying about 15_percent of the university's cost. In some countries it is free; therefore, pay the 0. Here we are paying 42_per_cent, or so, the effort we are making to the university student is very and very high. We've been bidding, in four years, from a 16_per_cent to a 42. So this is an element that we need to take into account, especially if we look at what is the effort that it is making, per capita, to Catalonia in relation to other communities, for example, isn't it? And here, therefore, the effort that is made is a 7.5_per_cent, very much above, for example, what is done to the Basque Country or other autonomous communities. Therefore, I believe that this is an element that we need to take into account and that we want to..., we would like the government to work there. Why? Because behind these figures and this situation we believe that there is or that the Government is implementing a new funding model that we do not share, which is: very high university fees; making it difficult to access the university; scholarships, however..., which are very aligned with family income, which we believe is neither the best nor the only element to take into account at the time of determining which is to be a university scholarship. And, therefore, we would like the government to put in place this model of public finance and university taxes that it has imposed on Catalonia. And let's not say it to ourselves; let's say the Rectors, too, let's say it to Ceucat, that's to say, to the council of students in Catalonia, and we think I should analyze it. There is on the table, in addition, a document that approved the cloister of the University of Girona, which demanded that the own two years..., that is, that we are walking for a free of university taxes. And we would like to know, then, well, if the government is working; if the model we have is what it wants to have; if this will change; if it was, precisely, for a moment of crisis, and, therefore, its line went to another side, or if actually the government's will is this, the model that is planting and that is implanting its, and, therefore, in this sense, not shared. And anyway, so, we'll see who the actions we're taking are, right? But we would certainly like to know exactly what the government's grasp is on this issue, because, remember-ho you, the month of April we approved here a motion that said that the government would reduce university fees by 30_percent for the course 2016-2017, and the government disobeyed Parliament and has frozen them, did not reduce them by 30_percent. Therefore, it has not fulfilled what is approved here. We would also like to know, therefore, what is the government's understanding in this sense, because it seems difficult to say that we are not completing a motion approved in the House of Commons. The other important issue for us is the teaching model. One of the consequences of these detailings, of this Law of Presuppositional Enabling, of this royal decree which applies to the 1st generation of 2012 and which restricts, for example, the contract of professorship, therefore, is precisely this, the precariousness that is being carried out in the university sphere. This decree reduced the repositioning rate by 10_per_cent– therefore, it means that we cannot rest all the people who are retired or who are leaving –; now it has opened to 100_per_cent, but the Generality says that only a 50 for new contracts, and the remaining one – the 50 – for the promotion of professors and for the stability of internal ones that already have. Therefore, let us not finish – let us not finish – covering all those places. And so, at these times, let's say, we're going back; that is, we're not moving forward, we're encouraging all this lack of seats that we should be covering. And, of course, then we talk about precariousness. And I do not want to excuse, in this sense, the rectoral teams of the universities, but it is true that they have made use of a tool, that they are the associates, to cover these vacancies, to cover these unconvoked places, for, obviously, to give answer to a clear need, that it is that there are groups, that there are titles, to which they must give answer, they must give classes; they must therefore give power to give answer to the needs of university students. And, therefore, it is true that a figure such as the associates, who must be a professional who goes from the outside to convey a certain experience, so it ended up using – it is true – to cover a clear need that the university has: that it cannot cover completely... that it does so through this door to go back, partially, but this clearly harms the teaching, the quality in the teaching. And we think that, so, we also have to report it. And here we'd also like to know what the government's captivating is. For example, all this affects the work environment. The agreement of the labor staff is untouched, said, is put to rest from the year 2006. I do not know if the Government intends, in this sense, to set up some better ones, because, in the end, the reality is this: the workforce, therefore, there has certain conditions; the associate is the most precarious, because they have to make partial days that end up being complete; there they end up being non-professional, only people who want to do the teaching career, but by the back door. And, therefore, the situation is very precarious, and it seems to us that this should be resolved, in a country that wants to be caught up in this environment. And, therefore, it is two of the themes that we would like to touch. We'd like to know what the government's grip is, see that there's also been a change, so to advise, and it seems to us that this could also be a change, perhaps, in the policies that develop from the department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.27.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.28.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to thank the whole of your inquiry, a constructive one, and I hope that, among all of us, we can do and continue what we have been doing for many governments and for a long time, that it is to make a university policy and to make a country search policy, that it is stable, that it has clear principles known, and that it is respected and applied to all governments, independently of which color is followed and which direction is followed. Because that's exactly what happened these past few years, and that's exactly what made it possible that, despite the difficulties, I won't deny them, because you said a figure of how the public pressure was reduced in the Generality transfers to universities, and it's a figure that fits into reality, and that's... if we compared it to liquidated, we wanted the reduction to be less intense; and if we compared it to liquidity, we would see that government has made a lot of effort to find roots and accounts, to move the rake to all places and to put, after, money and resources into university policies. But yes, huh? There's been, these last few years, a reduction like you said, but... it's reduced that, on the other hand, it's what's happened in the general public's global assumption. With respect to the year 2010, the assumption for policies, therefore, was reduced by 20_percent. And this is where all the public policies of the Generalitat have been adapted, also – also – linked to the university. And here, if I may, I would like to add another effect that we have found that has multiplied this reduction effect, which is the way the Government of the State has adjusted its assumptions. Most of these adjustments have come for the reduction of transfers to autonomous communities, and this has also affected this area. It has affected in the measure that there was a more restrictive policy and a more restrictive scholarship policy has been determined, or, for example, also – also – when there were resources earmarked for research, which have been substantially reduced, and these were research resources that were directly linked to universities. When we get our search back in about 100_million euros, so that has some effects. And precisely this circumstance, combined with the reform made by the State in 2012 through Decree 14/2012, which linked the cost of enrollment to the cost of studies and made that the cost of credits linked to grades and regulated professions between 15 and 25 per cent, and the cost of non-professional teachers between 40 and 50 per cent of enrollment, was what allowed us and it was what enabled us to create a link to try to change this starting situation and try to place and place more resources at the university. Because of what? For the way to associate university fees according to income, establishing a scholarship system in which this is determined, so that if before students – as you said – contribute 15_percent of the university cost, now Catalan students would contribute between 25_percent and 0_per_cent, depending on their income. And that's the policy that's done. And you will say: "Is it perfectable? All things are perfect, in this world, but this is the policy that has served so that the universities can have some tickets that they can maintain at this level of quality of the teachings and these results that all students and the whole world, too, show us. And why did he do it that way? And you said..., says: "There are students who pay 42_per_cent more. No, because this decree... No« 42_per_cent, « pay 42_per_cent of university costs. It's not true, among other things, because if that were the case, we would be failing a rule that says that no student can pay more than 25_per_cent, and that rule we respect. And we have a criterion – a criterion – that is collected for the courts, because, when there was an appeal, we told the court what was the method of accounting and charging the tuition costs, and the court recognized it and so estimated it..., in which it was said that the approximate cost, the average cost already paid by Catalan students, is about 20_percent of the tuition. True, people will have to pay 25 percent, but they won't have to pay zero. There will be trams..., families of four members with income available, net – available – of 38,000 euros may not pay the tuition. Therefore, if the State..., among all, among all taxes, we pay 80_per_cent of the Equity scholarships is paid the remaining 20_per_cent. And this is what has allowed us, therefore, to maintain the presuppositional stability of the university, to increase resources for the universities that otherwise and in other ways we could not have done – because the resources were not there – and also to finance the equity scholarships, so that today 44_percent of the students enrolled in the Catalan universities have some public help of one or other type. The license plate? It has remained, and in any case, if we look at the ratio between students in the age range of 18 to 24 years and the number of university students, not only increases, but grows and increases slightly. And he has also managed to maintain, with all the efforts he wants, the social function of the university, so that today the students who are studying at the university who are the children of parents who do not have, both of them, university students have been growing up and represent 57_percent of all the students there at the university. Therefore, in this sense, this is what has allowed this charging system and linked to donating major resources. What are we doing? You said, "What do we have? "We are failing to comply with Parliament's resolutions. Miri, without a new assumption, we cannot reduce taxes by 30_per_cent. Or, if not, say'md'on we betray it – say'md'on we betray it –: we can take it out of salvation, we can do it out of the way, we can play teaching things, but... Things are like that, we can't do it. And we've kept a balance. What are we doing and what do we want to present? Anyway, we'd like to do it before we finish the year. Also something that Parliament decided in a resolution: we look globally at the university's funding system, we look globally at how we would like to do the scholarship policy, and from here on, we decide what we want to do in the area of university taxes, because that is something we can decide. If they say to me, "Would you like to reduce university fees? Home, of course, who isn't? Every time we have enough resources to do so and every time this puts up with the whole of the global social protection system, because there are areas where no one is arguing that they are not free: for example, zero-three, that they are more cars than college, and that is not being discussed. The effects that it has had on the stability of university professors or the situation of university professors, myri, the most important and greatest affect on the teaching policies of public universities have come to be determined – you say – by what was the repositioning rate of the academic staff and researcher, which the Ministry of History has set through the Law of Presumptions. That is to say, the number of places that a university could call for so as to cover the student and researcher staff downloads in the years 12, 13 and 14 were a maximum of 10_per_cent– the repositioning fee; the year 15 was 50_per_cent, and it was the year 16 that was 100_per_cent. And, from here on, the Government of Catalonia has tried..., the year 2014 is the year that produces an inflection, and the year 2015 and the year 2016, through the programs of stable contracting of the faculty in a work way, is already through the same ones that do the same university or through the linked to the program Serra Húnter, has gone increasing, although slightly, the contract of stable university professorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, there's the word "Mrs. Alicia Romero."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.30.0	Thank you, President. I'll try to be very brief. Look, counselor, you say: "The premise has not been approved. Well, the responsibility lies with the government, which did not have the parliamentary support to do so. And I'll tell you one thing, they have solutions: bring here a proposal for modifications of some taxes to get more tickets, and they have resources to devote to universities. Because, in the end, a premise sets priorities for a government. And so, if we prioritize university, because we prioritize knowledge as a basis of our economy, so it's simple: it's putting more resources here and taking them from another place. I'm not in the government. If there were, then, I would already do the exercise, or, if asked of me, we can do it together, Mr Castellà, and so on, together; but in any case, the responsibility for doing this exercise lies with the Government. The University Council of Catalonia, in the study I was quoting, which spoke of the 42_percent of the cost to which the student is facing, that it is a very important cost, also says that we are considering not prioritizing the university, because we run the risk of elongating from the countries that make a high investment in talent, a high investment in university research, and therefore that we lose positions in this sense. Because, at the end, the first year and the second year and the third year not, but when we wear many years so, then, we can have serious difficulties. You said..., cost of enrollment- cost of studies. He gave one of the rectors of universities that one of the problems of having a lot of careers and a lot of careers is that students end up making a lot of careers. And that means that we don't make more caring careers, that we get used to being the techs, the engineering, the ones we just need... more professional to be able to cope with this model change that we're talking about, right? Therefore, it counts on the costs of the studies, because they also end up selecting their students, and this is harmful and it seems difficult to us. The study done by the University Lives Network and the Jaume Bofill Foundation said that, because it is deficient, the scholarship system we have. And he said that without a system that allows students to have autonomy to study with their own resources, young people will continue to resort to families. And that ends up being a criterion, but I don't know if the best criteria; I don't know if it's the best criteria to end up defining what opportunities a student has to go to college and pursue a university career. And with that, so, we should also go with it. Look, you've donated a few copies of college students, but the syndic's last report – it seems to me that it was the month of May – gave the amounts of morosity. Morosity is an indication, too, that something is happening, because, if nothing happens, people would pay for their materials without any problem. So, some figures he gave: to the Autonomous, 2008-2009 course, 178 late; the year 2015, 1,120. University of Girona, which is smaller, the 2011-2012 course, 70; 2014-2015, 247. It is to say, it has increased, the morositude, to the university; therefore, it means that something is happening. I think we have to face it – I think we have to face it. You have increased the taxes, and, despite the fact that you have increased the scholarships, it is not enough that we can generate and facilitate this equal opportunity. And let's face it, so let's say the rectors, in one of their findings, that we're doing a university for the children of the elite and we're damaging the access of the children of the humblest families to the university. That it had worked with a social elevator? It's true; it wouldn't just have to work like that, but so would it. And, in fact, the data..., you gave a 57_per_cent, I had a 41_per_cent of students who are graduate, with non-university peers, that's to say that the script is very important, but it doesn't seem like we're on this line. Therefore, this is a subject that we would like to develop, if it is with consensus, much better; what happens, whether we see each other or feel a little bit of government, in this sense. And on the subject of the teaching model, it is true, yes, the details, the presuppositional instability, the royal decree of 2012..., but something we will have to do, because we need to expand plants, we need to stabilize plants, we need to take away the precariousness of university staff, which is key to having a good teaching quality and good students and good academics and good professionals. And, therefore, this is an issue that we think we need to address in a serious way, because the answer... or, when one speaks to the rectors, one of the problems they pose about the table is this. And, therefore, we will have to see how, beyond going in, say, through the back door, through the contracting of associates, we look for some solutions. He didn't give me much time to talk, but he wanted to announce two themes, which I think we can work on later in the House... which is governance. It's true that it's not just about us – about the state, about the generality, about the universities – but about the study that experts did in 2012 they already said that without touching we could advance into some element of governance. And it is true that in order to adapt to a more competitive, more global, more international, more innovative Europe, we make some changes. I don't know; we can't analyze those reflections and see what we can do without changing a law, without having to make legal arguments, legal jobs, to do that? And the other thing is that, in terms of innovation..., not in terms of research, but in terms of innovation, we have a deficit, and I think that we should also address it and see if from the National Pact for Research and Innovation we can, therefore, give a more important dimension to this environment to give a hug to which we believe it is a very important element not only of the university, but also of our product model, to which we can inject knowledge in a quick and diligent way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.32.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, honourable Member, it is our responsibility to govern and administer the presumption. And, therefore, what we have done is continue to maintain the policy of taxes, the policy of university taxes; a tariff that is social, a progressive tariff, a tariff that depends on the income of students and their families. And we have, for that reason, this year, invariable university taxes, and we continue with this revenue rate, a rate that is positive. You said to us: "No, the students have changed careers for the price. Miri, the data we have, from the Agency for the Quality of the University System, they say no, they deny us this fact. And believe me, this is one of the things that we've asked for, and it's not like that. It is more than that that we have done to compensate and to promote, among other things, one of the careers that must enable us to make this leap precisely in the field of industrial policy and in industry, all that is the engineering..., we compensate for the extra cost that the State fixes, as in the experimental career, to the engineering. The State puts a cost overrun on the credits, and we give them a special equity scholarship for engineers, because they don't have that cost overrun and because a decision that it's from the State doesn't make it difficult for some people to choose this kind of study. That's what we do, and that's the way we do it. I will not deny you the data that the syndic said; but I will tell you that there are instruments for all the universities, of the social councils that are being made, and decisions that are being made, so as to try to minimize and make these effects the least possible. And we work – we work –..., in the policy that we do on scholarships and fees, we place them in vulnerable ways, because what we want is that the model continues to be inclusive, because it is true, it has been, and we want it to continue to be, because it is inclusive of what the "social elevator" does and it is also inclusive of what it does to employment, because, when it's finished, university students are the ones who have the greatest chances of working. You talked about governance, and that's what we need to agree on. The margin we have is limited, because here we have the state legislation, and there are criteria that are dictated and that do not give us much autonomy. In fact, what is being done through regulation is to prevent autonomy, that this autonomy that he preaches – which is nominally given to public universities – from: for what he does to the contracting system; for what he does to the very structures of the university, to the teaching structures of the universities, which must be published in DOC, BOE, and in other aspects that can be done; for what he does to the paper that he can represent and that he can play a structure like the social councils of the universities at the time of university governance..., for many of these areas. We have taken advantage of or tried to look for all the margins that give us and allow us basic legislation. We are doing this: we have given more power and more capacity to social councils, we have made a policy of contracting that gives us as much as possible... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, there's no time... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] To give us as much as possible of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, let's start again... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Counselor laughs.]] No, no, That gives us as much flexibility as possible to the universities, because they can contract and because they can do the training and contracting of the faculty. And these are the elements – they are the elements – that we believe need to be updated to do this, to enable the faculty to be rehabilitated. We want you to have settled in the faculty; we, in fact, are committed. We believe that the moment we have it we have it – now we have it – we have it back to cover, to reconvene places for repositioning..., it's happening, it's growing, and we can give an answer to all this teacher and teacher staff who have been accumulating throughout all these years the universities so that they can have a stable career, a teaching career and a stable research career. Because this is the margin we have, and this is the job we want: a teacher and also a researcher, and also in the field of innovation, and they also transfer from universities and research centres to the product sector, which is what we want. And in innovation... you've made reference to innovation, you've borne it in mind. Look, we're making a great effort, in terms of innovation. Just yesterday we presented some results from the RIS3CAT communities. What are the RIS3CAT communities? They are, taking advantage of Horizon 2020, taking advantage of this new way of making and assigning European Commission funds, five innovation macro-projects, which unify companies, research centres, technological centres and universities, public centres and private centres; all together, taking more than a hundred companies, taking more than twenty research and research centres..., to make innovation, to make innovation applied to industry. And we have done this in the food sector, in the sustainable mobility sector, in the energy sector and in the health sciences sector. This is the effort that we are making, as we are also doing, in the field of innovation, with industrial PhDs or with the knowledge program: it is putting in contact people who are at university, who are making doctoral programs, with business projects that are still viable, and who, in the end, can transfer to the production sector. This is what we're doing, and I hope that in the youth, so we'll have the opportunity to come to terms with who the priority lines of action are. I, finally, just one thing. Yesterday, according to the second edition of the CEO, the universities are the most valued and most valued institutions in Catalonia, at a great distance from the others. So, let's keep this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the audience and plurality of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation]] [[300-00084/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is an inquiry to the Government on the audience and plurality of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To introduce her, has the word Mr. David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baiget, Mr Munté, at the last inquiry, I asked for plurality. You said: "We are audience leaders. I said to him: "Plurality has nothing to do with the audience. And you said: "Leadership supports our plurality. It's been a few months, and the reality is that we're still losing our audience, and we're no longer leaders. Now we're no longer leaders. We've lost audience, and above all we've lost plurality, and, what's worse, it gives me the feeling that they don't know what to do to recover audience and plurality. We are before a government unable, therefore, to recover this leadership in our public media, because this happens when an inadequate diagnosis is made. And if the diagnosis is: "We are leaders, which means that we are plurals, we fail in the diagnosis, and then what happens to us. We told the control committee: "We're not doing well. We're losing leadership, we're losing audience. And the answer was: "This is because of football. Literal. "The Eurocopa has made us lose our audience. And, counselor, I don't think it's, that it's not the fault of football; that it's the fault of the lack of self-criticism to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. It's because he doesn't want to know that more than half the people of Catalonia don't like public television, because he doesn't like independence. It is the fault of not understanding that the permanent critical references, the permanent disqualifications of all those people who are not on the rope, who are not independenceists, therefore, cause them to lose their hearing. It is the fault of the fact that you have created a one-dimensional public television, with a single political option, where the rest of the options do not have a cabuda, or, if there is a cabuda, it is a little bit of a necessary nuisance. It is the fault of the fact that the quota simply has to be completed. It's because of the fact that we're confusing information with propaganda. I do not say this, I say very many people: to public television and to the public radio it is confond information with propaganda; it is confond the news with the slogan to be given, and it is confon, also, that it is not known..., that it is not believed, above all, in the noble profession of journalism. That's why we're wrong, madame will advise – we're wrong – because plurality is rich. Plurality is openness, plurality is novelty, plurality is minority. And many minorities are increasing the audience. And when you separate the minority from our public media, you're turning into an audience every time smaller. I'm just asking you a question, Counselor, in this part of the first intervention: why didn't you give the debate to four? To the last electoral campaign – to the last electoral campaign – the political program most seen in Catalonia was the debate at four: the Rajoy debate, Pedro Sánchez, the Lord Churches and the Lord Albert Rivera. This was the most popular show throughout the television campaign, a million viewers more than Madrid-Barça, but this debate was not given for TV3; why? It's not football's fault. Antenna 3 or Telecinco had 300,000 spectators that day. To Catalonia! I'm talking about Catalonia. Because they gave the debate to four. And we didn't want to donate it. Counselor, we had free, this debate, but they gave up this important hearing share. I insist: why did we give up this debate? Why didn't you go out together for the yes? Is that the motive? Huh? Oh, come on, let's give up such an important debate because there wasn't one of...? Huh? Is that the motive? Tell me. No, I'm saying... no, "really. See, Mrs Rigau, I'm saying this because they told me something else at the committee. They told me they didn't give him because they gave him another TV. That's what they told the board. It's to say, for example, when you donate Madrid-Barça, if you donate it for another chain, in Catalonia we won't see it anymore. Or car races, which give them in different chains, from now on we won't see them anymore, will we? Because the gift for another chain... And what, they donate it for another chain? What do you have to see? The most political debate in Catalonia, on public television, for free, we couldn't see it, and that made us lose a lot, a lot of audience. Madam, according to the question, the program contract. Mr. Homs on the 19th generation of 2015 said, here too, that: "The program contract is already done. We're on condition to sign it. And, therefore, the proper weeks, and no more than the proper weeks, this will produce; 19 of the generation of 2015. Mrs. Munté, this was already done, this was done. Are you holding on to it? All right, now it turns out that the issue will be the usual one: the fault will be the opposition, because we have not voted the premise. So, it's not that, it's not that. That's not it. We made a program contract, the only one that was made on public television. We made us collect money from all the councils, to pull forward, because public television needed it. All the councils worked together, all of us, and we stabilized the communication service, the television services of Catalonia and Catalonia Radio. And we did it. It was very complicated, we cheated a lot of time, but it was done. And there was a director of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation who spent a lot of time doing it, and I have to ask him, counsel, that you do the same. I don't know if Mr. Homs had it done or not, I don't know – I'm afraid he didn't have it – but his obligation is to lay down the batteries and pull them forward, because public media, at this point, counsel, need to be stabilized. That we're not giving them, we're not giving them this off. So, I insist, just these two questions: why don't we have the program contract, yet? And second, why didn't we give the debate to four, which was the most political program seen in Catalonia in the last election campaign? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.35.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Perez. Next, there's the words of the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.36.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Pérez, as you said, this is not the first time we speak in this plenary about plurality, hearings and the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. You refer to your previous question, from March 2nd; then there was another, in this case of the People's Party, to the band of questions, also in the control session, and, logically, in the same control committee of the corporation that is held each month. And the times you need, then, I will answer, on behalf of the Government, to defend the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans as a key piece of our public media system, and to defend its plurality. Not only that, but what are the objectives with which it has been working since the corporation and which this government, therefore, is totally at its side in the search for quality programming, public service, the language of our country – which is català – and a television, moreover, which has a high credibility, with a comprehensive information offer, with contents that reflect diversity, pluralism, impartiality, territorial balance, and which is, moreover, a tool of social cohesion. So we have always conceived the public media in Catalonia, in the band of the idea or the concept that must also be the engine of the audiovisual industry. We believe that these functions are being completed and made from professionalism, from effort, in a context of extreme difficulties from an economic and presuppositional point of view. You think the corporate media costs a 30_per_cent less than five years ago, that there is a 20_per_cent less staff, but the leaders have kept up. You referred to the leadership of audiences, and said: "We are no longer leaders. Let'remember that the leadership of the first half of 2016 was maintained; it was maintained with a 12_per_cent share before Telecinco, which is true– it is true– that June led the audience thanks to the Euro Cup. So, yes, a fact that has affected all television offers; it has not only affected, in this case, the Television of Catalonia, but all television offers, and TV3_has been the second option, with a quota of 10,5_per_cent. But the rest of the thematic channels – 3/24, the Super3, Esport3 channel – have maintained their audience shares, and even improved them. And the GfK panel shows us how TV3 continues to feel the most valued generalist channel, with a 8.2_per_cent. And, it's true, the month of June we stopped being hearing leaders for the benefit of that channel, those channels that had the Euro Cup. And that's not an excuse; it's just looking at who the last few years are – and we can go as far as we want, huh? – of the month of June, since 2004 data are progressively decreasing. And I'm talking about seasonality, I'm talking about important sporting events, because I could quote other worlds, Eurocopes, etc., and it's june month where this bass is produced. But I must also remind you, despite the fact that this has always happened, that in 2004, for example, there were no chains like Four or The Sixth. Pay TV didn't have the implant it does have right now, the year 2016, and neither did the rest of the plataforms have a diversification of offerings like they do now. But I insist on this defense, on this full defense of plurality, because it is not a matter of perceptions, but also of the fact that the corporation, and, in this case, the Television of Catalonia, is perfectly audited. There are many mechanisms that exist to audit your plurality index. One is the ACC report, and here we could start talking about what was, for example..., the coverage that was given to TV3 in the past elections to the Congress and the Senate for which, for example, it does the parliamentary representation, which has been covered by television. You said to me, "Why didn't TV3 give the debate to four? "Debate four times between the Popular Party, the PSOE, Ciutadans i Unidos Podemos. So, surely because we're talking about very different models, Mr. MP. You're talking to me about a debate where Catalan political formations are being excluded; a debate that, effectively, has been relayed by six more chains – if more chains – where Catalan political formations are being excluded. We defend another model, Mr. Pérez, that you have to understand that it is just as legitimate as his. We defend a model that guarantees that those Catalan political formations that compete in elections in the Spanish State can participate in an electoral debate and their voice is heard. And in the debate at four his voice could not be heard, because they were expelled, because they did not participate, these political formations, of this model. You also referred, in your first intervention, to..., when you said: "When we were there, when we were there.... Let me remind you that when you were there, precisely, from 2004 to 2009, you lost the lead of TV3 audience, and you came to the position of third position in Catalonia. And then, of course, you also have to look for economic resources to strengthen public television – I have no doubt about it, too – but the corporation's spending has also taken its highest share. Therefore, there should be difficulties, but the money is there; the problem is that now the money is not there. We are also making great efforts, I assure you, because we are aware of the presuppositional difficulties that the corporation has, that it has public television and that it has the public radio of Catalonia; but, despite this context, very complex from an economic point of view, the leadership is maintained, I insist, this first semester. And, in addition, let's memorize another element that I think is very objective – a while ago Councilman Baiget also made reference –: I'm talking about the CEO's public opinion barometer, which was made public the past divendres, the second one 2016. According to this study, TV3 increases its follow-up and is located at the front of the TV channel list, with 47,5 queries following TV3 and 3/24 information. This represents an increase in respect to the previous barometer, in that it was 46.3 – therefore, there is an increase of more than 1 point – and these polls trien TV3 to usually see their information. I wonder: if so painful, if so much slogan, if so few plural is this television, how is it possible that they are wrong, that we are wrong, therefore, all those who sort it as the reference television? I don't think that's exactly where this is going, Congressman. You also referred to the program contract, and said, "What have you done? How could this program contract not be approved? I don't have the presupposition excuse. It's no excuse – it's no excuse – Mr. MP, and we had a chance to talk about it in the previous question, where you also referred to it. We have an agreement, effectively, to bring forward this contract program subject to Parliament's approval of the presuppositions for the year 2016; assumptions that have not been able or processed because some political formations – among which, his – therefore, have prevented it. Things are as they are and we have had to assume, but this assumption could not be taken forward, and this still makes the situation of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation more difficult, even more so than this government has not failed to search for the necessary resources. But there have been more things, more things have happened, even before the non-processing of assumptions. There have been overcome economic difficulties – and I will remember them, even if you know them perfectly, because you are perfectly aware of these situations –, overcome economic difficulties that have not allowed you to sign this brand agreement, as is the case with the conflict with the State over the deduction of VAT – you know and know the difficulties that this has involved –, the reduction of the entries that the corporation has suffered or the feeling in relation to the reduction of workers' salaries, which obviously has to be completed, and therefore, these moneys, these resources, must be returned, in this case, to the professionals, to the workers of the corporation. It is for these reasons that it is not feasible – for these difficulties and for the non-approval of the assumptions of the year 2016–, that it was not possible to sign, until it was clearly defined and stabilized this economic situation, a new program contract. That is, he knows, for his peace of mind, that those strategic objectives that fix the program contract – public service objectives, management commitments, etcetera –, despite the non-signature, despite not having been able to sign this program contract, the corporation is strictly completing them. I suppose we will have occasion to keep talking about this fact, about this situation that you, therefore, consider to be lacking in plurality, but I assure you – I assure you – that I would like it very much – and that is not so – that other public televisions in the State can display a level of plurality such as that shown by public television in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the time being, Mr Perez has now another word for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.38.0	All right, thank you very much, Mr. President. That is to say, they did not give the debate to four not for criteria of audience, not for journalistic criteria, but for a political decision, because, as political formations were out of date, they decided not to give it. All right. Who made this decision? Who made this policy decision not to donate this debate? It's not a technical decision, it's not a hearing decision, it's not a journalistic criterion – which is normal in these cases –; it's a political decision. Who's gonna take it? Who's gonna take it? [[Greetings.]] Did you take it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.39.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.40.0	All right. Let's see if we know who made this political decision not to give this debate to four, more than all public television in Catalonia that day. A thousand spectators, but by political decision it was decided not to donate it, to public television. It was free and decided not to donate it. Perfect. Listen, I'm also defending TV3, huh? I also defend plurality, hearing, and the tool of social cohesion, and català as a language normalization element in public media, and which is a motor of audiovisual, too. And I think that, as well as defending it, I need it to be better. By the way, by the way – by the way! - to conclude that plurality has nothing to do with the audience. By the way! That the audience has to see football, not plurality. I just said the councilwoman, by the way – by the way! –, they've picked up four plenaries. That they have nothing to see, audience and plurality; that if you have football and you have the car, then you have more audience, and it's already there. And it has nothing to do with plurality – it has nothing to do with plurality. Madam Counselor, you say that we are public television with more audit mechanisms. I'm sure. Certainly, the private votes of the members of the ACC who do not agree with the decisions that are taken, for the President's quality vote, could they go to the web? As they are public audit mechanisms, could they go web? It would be worth it; as exercises of transparency and plurality, it would be worth it. Why did you stop doing Mr. Jordi García-Soler's program? Why did he stop doing that on the radio? For economic reasons. Perfect. How much did this show cost? Three hundred euros. Are you sure it's for economic reasons? Are you sure it's for economic reasons, this 300_euros? Listen, if it's for economic reasons, I'm telling you..., you're doing another program, which was this one of Color Economy, that there was a person who was participating in the program, that only their hotel expenses were 1,000_euros... – I'm sorry – by plane and by trains were 1,000_euros. I of car, of a day of car, 700_euros. And he charged, per program, 7,500 euros. Now, let's load up the Jordi García-Soler, which is worth 300_euros per program? A crack, huh? The director of the radio, saving money... he could have looked at another band, but, yes, it was a different view, it was a minority view to the public radio, he would have seen those who, sometimes, were not on the rope. Counselor, why didn't you do the Borrell book program? A book that talks about independence. What was the reason not to donate it? "It was a political book. Literal. It's just that he wasn't donated because he was a political book. As they say: "We never talk about independence at Televisio de Catalunya. [[Rialles.]] "And to third parties we never talk about independence. Now, a Borrell book on independence... this one can't give, to public television, because it's a political book. The following week, logically, they announced another book, entitled The Right to Decide: The Theory and Practice of the New Right. [[Give me the applause.]] Perfect. Perfect. Do you know why they didn't donate Mr. Borrell's program? I explain it: as a working companion says, "because Mr. Borrell gives arguments for which he does not have to be independent. And this is the motivator of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, then the motive was that it was a political book, as you said? Is that a political book? No, no, The reason is that it's a book that's not on the rope, and you've decided that everything that doesn't go on the rope is better than it doesn't come out for public television. Madam Counselor, spavili's. We need to get the program contract in front of us and, above all, what is most important, we don't have to stay at once, in the situation we are in. I believed it. We don't get along with the fact that we're leaders. Let's keep making the same mistake. We don't have to stay like this. We must overcome the situation in which we are at this moment, which day after day we fall into the audience. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Also by the turn of the line, the President's Counsellor, Mrs. Neus Munté, returns to the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.42.0	« Espavili's, say, « Espavili's. All right. He gave the applause of a political formation, for example, which is characteristic for its absolute lack of plurality and for having closed public television in different communities. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.43.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.44.0	I'm not talking about you. I'm not talking about you; calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.45.0	Miss Counselor, forgive me for a moment. Mrs. Sierra, Mrs. Sierra, I call your attention – I call your attention – individually; I ask you to respect the word turn, which you have now, at this moment, the lady will advise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.46.0	Thank you, President. A little education, Mrs. Sierra. He wasn't talking about you. You haven't ruled the Valencian country or the Balearic Islands, which I know, have you? Neither is the government of the state. It wasn't for you, was it? Well, go on – go on. Mr. Pérez, you're talking about political decisions, who you've made decisions about... You've had occasion to ask this same question and all those you consider opportune to the president in the role of the corporation; I'm referring to who your answer was. I didn't ask myself. He knows perfectly well that the corporation is the corporation and the government is the government, at least now that's it – that's it. Don't tell me you're making the CAC hang or stop holding certain private votes. If it sounds good to me, it's pengessin, but I don't have to tell myself. The CAC, which is a regulatory body, which does not exist at the level of the State – you know perfectly well – that it is an organism of which we are very proud, but which does not exist at the level of the State – it would be better if there were –.... And, in addition, it has an important international recognition, because it does this audit of media plurality mechanisms, and I refer to its later report, which I think is very interesting, too, to read and know. But it's not me, it's not the government, who needs to tell us what to do with the corporation or the people who represent it. Catalan public television is a national, non-independence television, it is a national television, and I also refer to the report of the same CAC on which are the themes, on which are the themes that have been extended more extensively at the time level, which are the crisis– the economic crisis–, international politics... And it's a television that, as you know very well, reports about the migration crisis, about the weather, about male violence, about so many things. It's a national television, not an independentist. And I'm also referring to the audience index, to those percentages that I've mentioned before and that show us the CEO's barometer on people who sort out the information to be informed, and who sort in a very large way these information from TV3, and we could say the same as Catalonia Radio, to be informed. More things. You also asked me about Mr. Jordi García-Soler's program. I'll explain. This year the summer grail has a week more than the previous year, and a presupposition, unfortunately, between a 15 and a 20_per_cent less. Last year we were more or less in these proportions. Therefore, we could say that in two years, in two years, in two years, Catalonia Radio had to reduce the cost of its grenadier by more than 25_per_cent, I say it again, badly. And that made it necessary to make decisions such as to dispense with the almost totality of the externals of Catalonia Radio and to submit a proposal for the estuary that is made with people of the house. Therefore, of course, there is no doubt, Mr Pérez, that the decision to be taken was due to economic, of a different nature, in no case ideological. That what needs to be done in the long run is a student at the expense of this summer and book, therefore, other types of programs in order to be able to approach the new season, both in Catalonia Radio and on TV3, and this you also know. And personally he's talking to me..., and I'm sure you have the same regard for the professionalism and the good work done by Mr. García-Soler, who has also been advisor to the Catalan Radio and Television Corporation in different stages. We hope to find ourselves in the House, but frankly, Mr. Pérez, one more time I have to tell you that you are part of a predicament that is very and very dangerous. I am talking about a television that seeks to continue being a tool of social cohesion; that seeks to continue representing absolutely everyone, think as you think, at our home; that its ratings, the appreciation that the spectators make, also the appreciation of the organizations that make this control or of some of the mechanisms that make this control – because, I insist, the corporation is, of course, of the most audited public media in all Europe –..., the ciphers speak for themselves, the recognition also speaks for themselves. And, I insist, I don't think it's right to insult the intelligence of so many people who continue to sort out Catalan public television as the best, and that means more plurality, he informs them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on security policy]] [[300-00086/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on security policy, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.48.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor..., Mr Councillor, the inquiry comes as a result of the presentation of the General Security Plan of Catalonia 2016-2019 that he made last week, in which he presented us with a series of objectives that I think were quite acceptable – I think we could match practically 90_per_cent of the objectives that you presented – but there were some«buts, and I told them that day. Which one is it? That you, in the security plan, do not define the police model for Catalonia – it is not defined – nor do you speak or define the territorial structure, that I do not doubt that you have it, but neither explained it nor is it defined. And all this is also complemented by a plan of equipment that does not exist either. What is the explanation for having police stations in some municipalities and not in others? Why do temporary police stations or citizen's offices not need in some municipalities? Why don't we have an important police station in the Free Zone, instead of in Sabadell? Why in the Free Zone? Very simple: where do the vast majority of manifestations, concentrations or some serious altercations occur? , where have they been given, the great majority, in the city of Barcelona? Why do we not have any more coordination centres in other municipalities with local police, in municipalities of 50,000 or 100,000 inhabitants? All this defines what a police model is, territorial division. We know that there are many regions of the interior, in which there is a significant deficit, in which in the district territory at night there are only one or two patrols for the entire region. What is the police model of Catalonia, Mr. Counsellor? All this is also, of course, linked to the number of troops needed, of squadron mossos. You placed them around 17,000 – it does not arrive, because it is 16,868 –; the target is 18,267, which, for the 7_million_and_average of Catalans we are, would reach the target of 2.4 mossos d'ésquadra per 1,000 inhabitants in Catalonia. Perfect. To achieve that goal, you announce a new promotion of 400 police officers, which seems to be that, since there is no budget, you cancel, and you stay the same. They say that such promotion cannot be possible: there is no budget, there are no agents. That's right, we have a promotion of 18 inspectors, 12 intendants, 8 commissioners and 1 major; that is, more commanders, less police. Counselor, when someone rules..., a government, especially in matters of security and prevention, has to act without complexes, and a government expects solutions, alternatives, proposals, and, in the end, to be resolute. In this case, for the time being, they are not: when there is a shortage of officers and poor coordination with some local police officers, day-to-day problems are not solved. I will give you three examples – three examples – of different nature and dimension, which are currently given in Catalonia. One is the already discussed « top blanket, in Barcelona and throughout the Catalan coast; some mayor, therefore, puts a skatepark to solve what, because in the end it seems that she does not realize that Barcelona is infected and full of « top blanket, but it is true that there is a problem of coordination with the police of Barcelona. Chronic problems of security and coexistence in the neighborhood of Sant Joan in Figueras. Or, for example, now, in Bellaterra, that there is an important problem of robbery with force; it is true that there are mossos d'esquadra patrolling, but the local police, which depends on the mayor of the CUP of Sardañola, is neither there nor expected, because it passes completely from the neighbors of Bellaterra. These are three examples that I give you to see that there are many problems that need police personnel, in addition to other actions, currently. And alternatives, alternatives to cover this deficit, there are, Mr. Counsellor. Let's start by talking about local police. Why not start reviewing agreements with those police officers who have signed or have signed some kind of agreement to improve and provide greater coordination and collaboration? And why not share skills with local police? To maximize efforts, resources and staff, to propose more joint coordination rooms in the large municipalities; why can only Barcelona have it? Even if you don't want to, run an inter-administrative competition to incorporate police officers from other security forces who are already trained and experienced. And that's another solution: to present and produce the job catalogue of the second activity; a police officer in second activity does not stop being a police officer, has an experience, can help in police tasks, can be in the complaints section, access control..., and so all first activity police officers would have them on the street. We must make possible the promotion you announced of four hundred new mossos. And, if there is no budget, we, Mr. Counsellor, propose that you make a change to your credit. They can do it, a credit change; they can do it. The funds, the budget of contingency funds, you will know: money there is; even if you say no, money there is. And it will show what its priorities are, whether to continue spending money on state structures or to dedicate this money to the security of all Catalans. Or, for example, call for more cooperation from the National Police and the Civil Guard in those areas and territories where, because of the need for troops, there is a need to strengthen. The police forces, you, in the hundred and twelve pages of the security plan, don't name them even once. That is why I was telling you, Mr. Counsellor, that in order to make decisions we do not have to act with complexes. The nationalist direa, the independenceist direa of this government, cannot prevent you from making decisions like the ones I am presenting to you right now. Mr. Counsellor, for us, and I am convinced that for you too, security is a priority – and for you, I do not doubt it – but Mr. Counsellor, alternatives to increase the staff of mossos d'esquadra or to strengthen the police presence where it is needed, there are them, I have explained them to you. Prove the courage you must have, and when we present the motion, I hope you will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.49.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, has the word Mr. Jordi Jané, Counsellor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.50.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., Mr Villagrasa, I thank him for the inquiry, because it allows, in the plenary, to be able to concrete some aspects. I believe that in a three-hour debate this past week, discussing the 2016-2019 Security Platform, we were able – I say, a three-hour debate – to see that most parliamentary groups had – and I am grateful to you for the truth – a very small denominator of which are the great lines that in the area of security we have to owe from the Government of Catalonia in cooperation and coordination, as it cannot otherwise be with the rest of the forces and security. And, therefore, that coincidence..., today, somehow, you see and say: "There is no police model. It's not true, there's a police model; it's at the police law. And the fact is, too, that I have bought myself, on behalf of the government – and to do so will obviously need the decision of this chamber, which is the one that has the power to legislate in Catalonia – to make a new law of the police. The model is: proximity model, operating model, territorial model as well. There is. I invite you to come to the Central Service of Mossos d'Esquadra, and you will see all the distribution to Catalonia of effect, much thought. I could show you a map here with all the country's ABPs, with all the absolutely thought-out structure, from the first district commissioner to the last police region. It's all designed and structured. Whether or not it can coincide, and, obviously, in concrete cases it can actually, if you want, discuss whether..., a commissioner here or a commissioner there. It's open, he discussed it. And always, with the effects and assumptions we have, you can make decisions in one direction or another, but what I don't admit is that it says here that there is no police model, there is no territorial model. What there is is a will – that certainly all the groups have told me to agree – to make a new law of the police of Catalonia. And you were talking about the number of effects, how we could incorporate the local police..., if I've said it since the first day, if from the first day I've said this concept of police of Catalonia that I want, in an express way, to retreat into the future law, if that's what Parliament decides, obviously. So these ideas or contributions are there. You're making other proposals now, which I can also hear, but some of them are really not very credible. He said: "I have called the four hundred places. I'll take care of it and I'll do it. Open my press... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, because I have a legal limitation. The first one I did, one time I saw that a totality of the assumptions was approved, was to ask: "What can I do? What margin do I have? One time we have no assumptions – there is therefore no public offer of employment – what margin is there? And they give me a report in which the margin given to me by the State Presumables Act. The Law of Presumptions of the State marks, in this case, a fee that cannot be greater than 50_per_cent. Therefore, with the limit of the Law of State Presuppositions, which is basic legislation in this field, I cannot call... Now, if you say to me: « Skip's, counselor, the basic legislation of the State, I will be surprised that from the People's Group I am told, but I understand that you must want, and your group also, that we respect the basic legislation of the State in this field, which limits me to a percentage. According to the percentage, I asked for an express study, and the name of places that could be called was so low that I could not allow what we would understand as a promotion, with the cost, the need, the infrastructure that this requires. As I hope and wish that we will have a very early assumption for the year 2017, so much good only to start the year 2017 is actually able to make this call of four hundred, or more, because it lacks fans. I already said in the Parliament – you were there, in that session – on May 11, 2016: "Jané conditioned the nine squad seats to the assumption. I didn't fool anyone. You're complaining today that we don't have them, but you didn't vote for the assumptions that would have made it possible. Because I warned him on May 11th, he's picked up in the session diary – I brought him a teletype, because it was very clear – so don't tell me now: "We don't have these four hundred. In change, yes..., the percentage margin, what does it allow us to do? Summon some commando seats. Why are we calling them? I'd like to, because they still need to call the four-cents, but how I can't... in the percentage, stretching the basic legislation, that I can, there were some commanding places, also planned, that they do, because if we want the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to follow an integral cos to cover from the plaza of major, which is planned to the law, which approved this Parliament, until later agents were to enter. But obviously, what they are majors, commissaries, intenders, if we can summon them, is positive that they are called, if they can, and legally can. And so, how legally I can't summon the four hundred, but I can and can, like the government, summon these commanding places..., lack fan. And I can't hear the reviews. Any member of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, if he believes in the future of the cos, must believe that there is a professional career between this cos, and therefore that there are more places of commands also good for the cos, and for the same structure of the cos. Therefore, there is a model, there is a territorial dimension and there are, moreover, proposals that go in the line of strengthening the body. Look, if there's one thing I don't admit, it's that last year we haven't made any decisions, with the little margin we have, in favor of the body. Not only, already, to announce a new promotion, which could not be done, but it had never been announced; we brought five years without announcing it... And I've bought it, and so we have a premise, if this Parliament wants it, it's going to promote commands, the contingency fund, and it's going to have arms, for example, the pool of squadron moves, that there's no other police thing in the whole state that's got it, and it's going to give a solution to media with additional credits that were approved in December 2015. So we didn't miss any action at the moment. I am not aware at the moment of saying: "It is that there has been a passivity in the field of what must be old for security. In change, they do surprise, sometimes, that the same ones who make this criticism, then, Mr. Villagrasa, passing over..., if we now pass over..., that we could do it, could say: "Ecculti'm, where are the more than 260_million euros that the State gives for the deployment of the Mossos? Here it could do a lot of work, if the State paid these 260_million euros. And I don't want to say that the responsibility is yours or your parliamentary group, nor will I say it; but the truth is that there has been... You know that since June 22nd of last year, which I was appointed, I have claimed that a security board is called, which would, for example, help us solve this presuppositional issue. And that, Mr. Villagrasa..., the truth is that you here, in Catalonia, tell me yes, that you go with the board of security; when you vote in the Congress of Deputies you tell me no, that the Mosses do not need to make a board of security; they tell me no, that I do not think that the Mosses have more coordination with the forces and things of security of the State. They say one thing here, and then there, in their parliament, they do absolutely the opposite. Here they want to make you believe – and I believe it, Mr. Villagrasa, and more of you – that they want to promote the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos, but at the time of truth, in other areas where you are decided and have possibilities, do not act accordingly. Therefore, I also ask for a point of credibility. Why? Because the Squad Moves have absolutely all of their planned activity from an operational point of view. Even now I could teach him what the summer 2016 reinforcement is: which way, although it's certain that we don't have the effects we want, we reorganize all the effects that have – all of them, from the first to the last – to give the answer in security in those country's rights where it is most needed. So, what do they ask? He asks that all that defense here, also help us to make it possible, which finally governs at the level of the State, to do so: transferring the money that is owed, convening the board of security and facilitating this deployment that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra needs, that it cannot be otherwise than approving here the presuppositionary endowments to be able to make the public offer of occupation. What a country can't do, because, I repeat, the same basic state legislation prevents us..., what we can't do is approve a public job offer that doesn't have a legal basis, because I'm being challenged. Do you know who's gonna hold it against me? You, your government in Madrid. I have no doubt about that. If I now approve of a promotion without legal basis, skipping the limitation of the legislation, in this case, state supposition, the first one that gave it to me to the Constitutional Court would be the Government of the State. So don't ask here that you do something that, legally, the state's legislation, in this case, prevents you from doing. We'll have, I imagine, the president, on the second return, more opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.52.0	Counselor, it's a bit of a manual, that the police model is explained in the security plans; that's a manual. And in the security plan that you put forward, it wasn't there. Do I have to go to a decree or a regulation? No, no, it's just that the security plan is changeable, because realities are mutant. And, therefore, that has to be included in the security plan. You say: "No, until the last district police station is planned. It's not true – it's not true. What you did was pick up some National Police equipment and locate the Mossos d'Esquadra police station there. And I'm going to give you an example of bad planning. The Eixample police station, where is it located? In Plaza España, at one end of the district, the largest district of Barcelona, with 280,000 inhabitants; the rest of the territory of that district does not have a single police equipment of Mossos d'Esquadra. Is that a police station well located, in a district of 280.00 inhabitants, when in just ten streets there is another police station, which is Ciutat Vella? That's not planning, Mr. Counselor; that's improvisation. What's going on? That the National Police had more police stations for neighborhoods, which you don't have. You say: "Listen, it invites me to make an illegality, and I cannot call the promotion. But it is legal to request a credit change, and I am convinced that I would have a majority here to approve it. That's legal, do it. Don't tell me it's our fault because we don't approve the budgets – obviously, we don't approve them, because behind that budget there's something else. No, no, listen, imagination, solutions, alternatives. If you can't call because there is no budget, credit change, and I'm sure you'll be approved, because you can. And there are alternatives – I told him –: review of the agreements with the local police, share equipment, share skills, ask the National Police and Civil Guard where it is needed, where it is necessary, that they will be sure to have it. That, by the way, I also call for the same institutional respect from this government, because I repeat it again, in its report, one hundred and twelve pages, they are not explicitly named once – not once. I, really, when they talk about the money that is needed, that is given from Madrid..., who pays 80_per_cent of the salary to the mossos d'ésquadra? Where does that money come from, Mr. Counselor? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, he's out of Catalan taxes now. Transferred — Transferred — From Where? [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, tell me: transferred from where? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] You know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.53.0	Please, please, respect the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.54.0	From the bad, very bad of Madrid, and you know it. From there comes that reference, and don't come to me with excuses of bad payer, that if the security board... no, no; you know it will be called, the board. Now the important thing is to reach the eighteen thousand agents of mossos d'ésquadra. Obviously, it won't be done in two or three years. Alternatives to fill that gap, I've given you a few. And the four hundred agents, that call..., if there's no budget, you can get it out by doing a credit change here. And that's legal. Obviously, I'm not going to invite you to make an illegality. Those of the People's Party certainly not; others, yes. Not us. And don't worry, that everything you ask us to help you with those bad guys in Madrid, huh? ... don't worry, we will, but the same institutional loyalty that asks us also I ask for for the forces and security forces that also work here and that are not the Mossos d'Esquadra. And, by the way, I recognize all the work done by the Mossos d'Esquadra, and, for our part, they will obviously always have our support and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.55.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. The word has the advisor, Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.56.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Villagrasa, before you set me some concrete example, and I don't admit it either, because... I'm from the barri de Sant Joan, in Figueres. I went to the barrio de Sant Joan in Figueres, and I met with the mayor of Figueres and with all the municipal porters of the assembly. And I locked myself in a room and I was discussing security issues with them. And they thanked – and very much – that there was the counselor and the task that is ugly from the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in a barri like the barri de Sant Joan de Figueres. Therefore, I say: « For example, the barrier of Sant Joan..., therefore, his municipal spokespersons, there, that day, gave thanks to us. And we stayed that we wouldn't use the Sant Joan de Figueres barrel to do what you tried to do today, right? We're looking for the counselor's erosion, because it's not going to work... or help this bar, stigmatizing it. I, therefore, did not admit them. The theme of the « top blanket has also put it to me as an example. So, look, in the city of Barcelona, when 'nsha' was required, joint arrangements were made; in areas where directly they did not have the responsibility, at Mossos d'Esquadra, they needed and went. And if not, I'll talk to the mayor of Barcelona or the president of the port authority, and see whether or not we're satisfied with any requirement to do so on the subject of the "top blanket". The director, Albert Batlle, who accompanies us in this debate, knows perfectly well that the predisposition, the performance and the absolute will of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in this area is absolutely aimed at helping and sharing joint devices and giving it a positive response. So neither did this other example that I gave before I admitted it. And you told me you're doing this credit supplement. I'm told that, in this area of repositioning of nine calls for the future, we have this limit of state law, but if you say we don't have it, don't worry, I'll make it look good, because to me, how legally I'm told that I don't... And if they tell me I can't do something legally and do it, the immediate reaction of the state government we know. Therefore, I would very much like to assure you that, for this extraordinary way, I can summon four hundred nine seats without a public offer of employment. So I'm glad you're explaining how you're doing. But I will explain something to you. Miri, he doesn't make mass weeks– he does two, three months–..., on April 28, 2016, is debating a non-law proposal to the Congress of Deputies, which was approved – it was approved – with the vote of the People's Group against, which is the vote against the Government of the State, because it had a majority..., even though it was working, they had a majority. And what did he say? Because now we're going to see what he voted for, because he says: "Well, you voted against it... Say: "Bring me the text that you voted against Mr. Villagrasa's company in Madrid. That they're not the bad guys, huh? I don't believe in these good guys and bad guys, huh? I don't believe in people. [[Widow's remorse.]] Now, what happened -- what happened -- that day? So, miri, Madam President, if I may, I'll read it. Says: "The Congress of Deputies urges the Government to carry out all those measures that strengthen coordination and cooperation," he says, "between the National Police, the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Ertzaintza. What is your opposition to ‘strengthening coordination and cooperation'? Cite the forces of the State and the Ertzaintza and the Mossos, but you, against. Says : « Facilitating for this... What did they want? – concrete points – he says: « Training and information – training and information – « on the part of the autonomous and state police to the local police and these between them, whether or not we collaborate more with the local police. What you asked me for here today turns out that you voted against it there. That's a good thing, huh? Is that a lot? No, this year, April 28, 2016. Keep going. What else did he say? Diu : « Proceeding to convene as soon as possible all those operational coordination instruments, and quotes the safety board. And you, against it. And that's what he voted for. And it was approved because the PSOE voted for it and the rest of the groups voted for it; you didn't. Certainly, Ciutadans, neither, but you were wearing..., were the view of the State Government, at that time, which said no. And later on – because I can't understand why it isn't voting – he says: "On the side of the safety board, the possibility is fixed, the possibility is fixed – "that the Mosses and Ertzaintza can have access to information and to the different national and international police connections. And that's what they're voting against. And this is impeccable; it was approved for the Congress of Deputies. So let's learn, Mr. Villagrasa, a few, because, of course, now you, tomorrow, will present a motion, and it turns out that in the motion you will tell me things about these. And, finally, look, this whole thing of renewing the arrangements between the local police and the Squad Coast... I'll tell you one thing: if you go over the amount of local security juntas that the councilman himself is going to go there, he'll be there... he'll be talking to the mayors; he'll be talking, by the way, to the security forces and bodies—that they'll be watching— about the state, and he'll be talking to the local police. And some time he asked himself to review the arrangement, and she's checked, and in others, no. And, for that matter, I didn't admit it either. I, lastly, do not criticise to the councillor of the year 2016 the deployment of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the territorial structure, which, in full consent of this chamber, was done in its day, to say if the commissioner of the Eixample...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.57.0	Counselor, I know it's hard, but time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.58.0	...he has to be here or he has to be there. Therefore – I finish already, Madam President –, nothing more..., nothing more and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.59.0	No, I'm done... no, I'm done. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.60.0	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-07-26-2101.61.0	Thank you very much. Well, very late, thank you very much to all of you. And they suspect the session till tomorrow morning you give it to them.
