ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Ask the Government about the current situation of housing legislation]] [[310-00125/11]] Very good morning to everyone. The agenda item is oral questions to the Government. The first question is about the current situation of housing legislation. The question is posed by Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.2.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. The honourable Member will advise, well, in these past years the Parliament of Catalonia has approved a whole series of legislative measures to deal with the severe housing crisis, the result of the severe economic crisis. Therefore, we could say that as it has now been legislated so much in terms of housing. But the one who had a special impact at the legislative level followed the appeal against Law 24/2015 and the suspension of some of its articles by the CT to institutions of the Government of the People's Party, which left us practically without tools in order to be able to fight against the residential emergence. To make it a front we have worked intensely, without rest, to make a new law: two summits convened for the president of the Generalitat, on May 3 and July 29; a working group coordinated for his council, with representatives of the local world, the Barcelona Assembly and the group promoting the ILP; very many meetings; many blurry... In short, work done in time remembering so that the most vulnerable citizens did not have to suffer for a long time the effects of suspension and the insensitive action of this State. As a result of this work, today we have a very solid and rigorous legal text, which is obviously not a hundred per cent substitutive text, but a new law to supplement the suspected articles, which is quite different, and which therefore starts with a correct principle; a text that has been approved by the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, the Barcelona Assembly..., which has received the report with the support of the Council of the Catalan Advocate and which the Government of the Generality approved on October 4. In order to be able to approve this law as quickly as possible it was left at the summits that it would be good that it could be dealt with in a single reading. That's why a lot of attachments were opened and different attachments were accepted. And all this with the explanatory will that you want to assume this new law, which is nothing but a new suspicion and sometimes being useful in giving a quick and direct response to people's needs. Finally, after all folded, it will not be processed for single reading. He'll do it for an emergency procedure. That means that this law will get in the way of the parliamentary process, let's see if it's too much or too little. But in any case, that is why the Joint Parliamentary Group is asking the following question, which is: what is the current situation in terms of housing..., the Catalonian Parliament and the Council?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.3.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to the governess, Public Administrations and Habitatge, Mrs Meritxell Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, the appeal and suspension of the 24/2015 Law left us without some very important tools to fight against the emergence of habitat. The answer from the government and the president was quick, and we wanted to do, as you said, two summits. The first was immediate, and we had a very clear and concise task, and it was to make a new law so that the suspension of Law 24/2015 would have no effect. This was asked, moreover, that it was done at a time of remembering, and that therefore it was in one reading, certainly, and more that it was also asked that it was a law that was not recourseable, and we made it a law that was legally solid, and therefore, in this sense, with all the certainty. So, we're pleased. We have a text that answers the task and gives us a new tool to provide elements to fight before this situation. The text that would have been approved today if it had been done by one reading, and just as the same summit had been established, which would have to be so... I insist: today we would have had it approved if it had not been for the purpose of breaking this agreement, fruit that the Catalonian Group could have broken this unanimity in the Bureau that it had always been necessary to incorporate an area that is important, such as the area of the market for wine, on which in my first appearance as a councillor I said that we were going to talk, and that we were going to make an effort to make an urban lease law, despite the fact that we were not competent... and more than September 8 was starting work on this subject. Therefore, the effects of not approving the law today lead us, for a band, to leave the most vulnerable people unprotected in this matter, and for the time being in an indefinite way, to leave unaided the gatherings, because today they do not have these tools to give answers to the need for housing. And besides, there is a third element: that the tax on empty floors..., and right of aunty and retraction, which until now was about 72 municipalities..., the enlargement to 234 will not materialize. Therefore, the obligation of social logger cannot be applied, either, in all those cases that require it. So today we won't have the new law. We will not, today, have the new tool for the gatherings, and at the head and at the end for the people who require it most. And, therefore, as the General Council of the Judiciary reminds us, every day we will have nine appointments in Barcelona and forty in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the problems of the road service and regional trains]] [[310-00126/11]] Second question to the Government, on the problems of the road service and the regional trains. The question is posed by Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, let's ask a question that is already used, unfortunately, in this country, and it is in relation to the roadside and regional service, a service that serves about 400,000 people, 400,000 citizens that are affected day by day also for the incidents that are produced throughout the roadside and regional network. The lack of reversal on the part of the Government of the State has been patent. He has invested a lot in high speed, and in many trains and in many stations that have finally had to be shut down. But, in any case, for which the Principality is concerned, and for which we are concerned in this question, we see that the Pla de Rodalias de Barcelona 2008-2015, which was promised, approved at the February 2009 for the Government of the State, provided for an investment of 4,000_million euros, of which seven years later only executed a 10_per_cent. As a result of this lack of reversal and before the incidents that occurred in Rodalies, 2014 the ministry is committing to a new reversal plan, an urgent plan, in other words, a plan of which only 4_per_cent has been executed at these times, and which, moreover, last month we kept the news on the side of Adif that they are not committed to taking forward these investments. It seems to us that the lack of investment in the road and regional network causes a lot of problems, especially in three lines that I want to remember: the R3, which would require an investment of 700_million euros, and of which only a reversal of 45_million euros is planned and has not started from the beginning of the way; the lines of the south, the R16 and the R15, which we expect from the expansion Tarragona-Vandellòs begin to work better, and especially also I want to do it in the case of the underground of the R2 at its pace towards Montcada, which continues to cause victims every year, mass names. This lack of reversal on the part of the Government of the State has also caused mistrust of users, but not all public transport lines, but especially Renfe. We would like to point out that while in the later years the use has fallen by 13_per_cent in the case of Rodalies, in the case of Railways and in the case of the metro it has increased by 20_per_cent. Therefore, it is clear that the reversal that took place at Ferrocarrils during these years has had a social return, which did not happen in the case of Rodalies. What we'd like to ask you, Counselor, is what your government intends to do before these issues and what complaints the government thinks hard about in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, I'm starting the answer for this last part that you assigned. Public transport usage data are good, they are very good. In fact, these first eight months of the year we have struck the historical memory in Catalonia of using public transport. There were never so many users. All modes of transport are growing. But we have a problem and we have a low trunk, which is precisely the trunk of the road and regional system. That's the one that's failing us. There is an increase of 0.5_per_cent, while other modes of transport grow, and grow significantly. What's going on? Because there is a problem of reliability in the field of Rodalies. Donors a few dice. 2012-2016 period: 1,597 incidents, basically linked to the infrastructure, were produced with 45,392 trains involved and affected 5.6_million passengers. These are the dice. And that's what causes there to be just a problem of credibility and reliability. And that's why we have this low trunk. How's it working out? So it's inverted. And we, like the government, like the generality of Catalonia, like the local administration, have tried everything, and we have negotiated investments, and these investments have been inconclusively incomplete. And so we've done a bit of political negotiation, we've done an administrative thing. Now we have only one way, which is the judicial way, with a rearward mobilization on the part of the country's institutions. The problem of Rodalies is not a problem of the Generality, it is not a problem of the joints. It's a matter of the people, of the citizens of this country. And that's why we've opened a way, the administrative litigation. We're going to file a pre-arranged request. What did Adif tell us? He told us: "All that the minister had agreed with the Generalitat de Catalunya, insofar as it was a pact of political and non-administrative nature, is irrelevant to us. It's just unaudited. We will present the administrative content, and the week you see, in an act presided over by President Puigdemont..., we will make a joint act of the Generality and the local administration to say: "We want to reverse this situation. And it gets two very fast ways, which are reversed and managed. We want them to invest in what they have undertaken to invest and we want to manage it from Catalonia. The transfer of lives, trains, stations, to provide a better service. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the suspension of Law 17/2015, effective equality of women and men]] [[310-00127/11]] Third question to the Government, on the suspension of the Law 17/2015, of effective equality between women and men. The question is posed by Ms. Natàlia Figueras, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.10.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, as you have shown on many of these occasions, together with the Government the political change begins for the social change. 2015 in this Parliament passed the Law of Equality between Men and Women, approved for all..., and most of the games that today form the chamber. This law, in its preamble, written for all these Members, exposes a very severe and sad reality. This preamble says: "Despite the many examples of formal recognition and progress made so far, the equality of men and women in everyday life is not yet a reality. In practice, men and women do not enjoy the same rights, as political, economic and cultural inequalities persist. These inequalities are the result of social structures that are based on numerous stereotypes present in the family, in education, in culture, in communication media, in the world of work, in social organization, among other areas. When a chamber creates a law to promote effective equality, it is aware that nothing can detract from progressing in equality and putting itself at that inequality, it means that this chamber has taken an important, essential step to improve. But once again the Constitutional Court, at the instigation of the Government, in certain cases articles, articles which, the great majority, are related to the world of work. And our question is: is equality unconstitutional? Is it unconstitutional to establish measures to prevent the annual salary of women from being a 25_per_cent lower than that of men? Is it unconstitutional to try to reduce the difference in years worked between men and women, knowing that men work a middle of forty-three years and women of twelve? Is it unconstitutional to try to secure the right of the woman's work to prevent her entering the circle of the poor, in which the woman has a risk rate of 21_per_cent and the man of 13_per_cent? Is it unconstitutional to attempt to equalize the percentage of retirement pensions on the population of sixty-five-year-olds, in which men have a middle 79_percent and women a 45? Gender policies are cross-cutting, and the obligation of all and each of the public administrations and services is old because they do not produce these inequalities. Counsel, this Parliament in 1934 approved the Law of Legal Equality of the Dona. On September 30, 1939, the same government of the Spanish State, with different characters, annulled it. History, in part, is repeated. Sad, but sure. And we ask that, as other entities such as the UGT and the Workers' Commissions have done, they express their willingness to continue to guarantee these measures to avoid inequalities. So he'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.11.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.12.0	...and please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.13.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.14.0	...we'd appreciate it if you could tell us what... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] Responses the Councillor of the Presidency, Mrs. Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.16.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, as you are well aware, we are patenting a constant judicialization of politics in Catalonia; but what is still worse, a judicialization of the problems of the citizenry. And, as the government, we are determined to continue to respond to these problems, that is, the issue of rolling stock, the issue of access to housing, poor energy or equality between men and women. The Government of the State places impediments, blocks and approves them in this Parliament; you have made reference to the Law of Effective Equality between Men and Women, which was approved unanimously in most of your articles; a law that backs claims of feminist movement, of women's entities, and that is advanced and ambitious, and that pursues gender equity and the promotion of women's rights. It is important to take into account what is the motive that the Constitutional Court has given to suspend certain articles of this law, and it is the presumed excess, violation of state powers. But this cannot be the argument, and that everyone knows that the Generality, that Catalonia has exclusive competences in policies of equality and in the perspective of gender, and that, indeed, this is an absolutely cross-cutting issue, as you very well said. That's why we're working colza to colza the government of the Generality's joint departments, and so we'll continue to do it, as the same Councilwoman at Work has said on numerous occasions, alongside economic agents, along with civil society and entities. Precisely because it is a cross-cutting issue, this leads us to address other aspects of ordinary life, such as the world of work, the world of work, which is where these discriminations, even so cruel, between men and women are produced. You asked a rhetorical question, I will also insist on this: where is the problem, to want to regulate prevention in the sexual targeting of companies? , to regulate equality plans? , to regulate the functions of trade union officials in the field of equality? The only answer can be found in the involvement in the rights of women claimed by the People's Party Government. And we, we do not allow this; because of democratic demands and because we need tools as powerful as this is. Indeed, as you said, Parliament has taken a step, a very important step in this direction, and we, as the government, will continue to move forward. We will maintain the effects of the suspension, the effects of the articles that are unfairly suspected by the Constitutional Court, and we will continue to work because in this state, in this country that we want to build, the effective equality between men and women is and will be a fundamental principle. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the forecast for the Segarra-Garrigues channel irrigation system]] [[310-00124/11]] Fourth question to the Government, about the forecasts regarding the irrigation system of the Segarra-Garrigues channel. The question is posed by Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.18.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, what does the Segarra-Garrigues channel represent for you and this government?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.19.0	There's the word Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.20.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, the Segarra-Garrigues channel, for the Government of the Generality, and I believe that throughout the country, it is a phonetic bet to achieve a sustainable future and territorial cohesion within our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.22.0	Thank you, President. Well, counsel, we agree with you that it is an absolutely essential work from an economic and social point of view and, especially, in six districts of the province of Lleida. What happens is that you preach a lot, but at the time of truth, do not execute what you preach. And I'm not saying, I'm saying the thousands of pages that see how the government's inaction can end up burying a pharaonic work, the most expensive one in Catalonia after line 9. In contrast to its immobilism, the Government of the State has done its dues – and you know it – by building the main canal, which is almost eighty-five kilometres long, with assumptions for the year. And I'm not saying it, but I'm saying the pages that make it clear who has fulfilled their commitments and who hasn't. The water is guaranteed and if the pages are not incorporated into the desired rhythm it is a question that only involves the Government, responsible for executing the secondary network, that is, the network that must carry the water of the channel to the farms, and that, today, still needs to be built 60_percent of the total. You'll advise, I'll ask you some very concert questions that I'd like you to get precise answers, won't you? First, can you commit to presenting a realistic action schedule with the objective of knowing where our pages should be drawn? Will there be a presupposition game in this 2017? Counsel, you know that the 70_per_cent of membership that is requested of the regents cannot be assumed; would it be possible to reduce it to half? Which financial facilities will give to the investments made by the pages? Think of reducing the price of access to the region and the cost of water? She'll advise, and I'll tell her with all sincerity, they're still on time; we're still on time. If the State has invested more than €400_million, it is because it has firmly believed that access to the region can ensure colitis, improve the economic profitability of the conreus, as well as its diversification; it allows to give a boost to economic activities linked to agriculture and above all to products of high added value, such as olive oil and vines, and socially avoids the abandonment of agricultural areas, and the creation of tourism associated with rural development. He will advise, we regret more than a decade lost in the construction of a truly inclusive infrastructure, as you said. We regret the let go of a historical transformation of drylands to irrigation, as in his day was the Urgel canal. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.23.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.24.0	Thank you, President. Welcome, Congresswoman, I'd like to say a few things that respect everything you've said. I insist, it is a firm bet of this government and of this country to pull forward this regade, and it is in the sense that at the total cost of this regade, that it is 1,513_million euros, the State does not bring 222; from the State that you quoted 440, the other part is co-financing of the regants, and this part of co-financing of the regants is advancing it the Generality. That is to say, the Generalitat contributes 1,069_million euros, which is the cost of this part, more than 222 of the Regiments, which is what we are advancing on the part of the Generalitat to the Regents; therefore, we are betting from here, from the Generalitat, from this Government of Catalonia, about 1,300_million euros for the Regadiu del Segarra-Garrigues, which is 85_per_cent; the State just still provides a 15_per_cent. And are we betting? So much so that we're betting, and every year. Enguany, 2016, we have allocated 20_million euros to the Segarra-Garrigues channel; for what it does to the secondary network, which is what the Regants bring, right? , and the one that brings the regade to the farms, we have allocated more than 10_million_i_mig. And what's that supposed to mean? We're assuming that our irrigated absolute surface is already more than fifteen thousand hectares, and we have more than 2,600 regents already– we have more than 2,600 regents. We are moving forward slowly, and in view of 2017 we will increase, and we will increase in a 10_per_cent almost the regable surface respects encany. As you said, the State has remained, there has been its share, these 222_million euros, so that the year that we end the main channel; but it is clear that what we want is that we come – come – to the regatta, and we have, more than that, a sustainable regatta with all the compensatory measures. For what it does to membership, we are very clear that we prioritize where there are regattas. There was a situation in the past where the regatta was set and the regants did not arrive, and now we have areas with regatta where there is the lowest number of regants. And what we want to do is to ensure sustainable development to the territories, to the exploitations of the territories, and, therefore, to set up the kingdom there where there are regions, where there are plans for development; because we want future, we want cohesion in our territories. And, without further ado, we will continue to bet, on the part of this government, on the Gargoyles. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on Habitat Policies]] [[310-00119/11]] Five questions to the Government, about housing policies. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.26.0	Thank you, President. In view of the frontal attack that the Government of the Spanish State has perpetrated with suspension, in order to save the financial system and the Spanish bank, of the Law 24/2015, a rule that, as I recall continuously, was the result of the will of the people to Catalonia expressed through a popular legislative initiative approved unanimously for this Parliament, it is certain that there was a majority consensus of this chamber, expressed at the summit, at the first summit convened to palau, that urged the Government of the Generalitat to act quickly to find alternative ways to concretely and dispose of tools in the implementation of the political intentions approved in this Parliament. Whether or not the difference in the sentence is true, it is also true that this majority consensus expressed itself again at the second summit in the form of a recognizance of the promptness with which the government had responded, through the presentation of the preliminary draft, huh? , by putting at the abst these measures of right to habitat. The reality, however, is coughing. Last week the press again showed us, and the councilwoman said before, some very critical data: four families named each day, 4,145 families named in Catalonia between April and June of this year. Many of us believe that the housing emergence situations that today suffer thousands of citizens in Catalonia require strong action by the Government of the Generality; that actions, beyond the approval of the new law, seek to achieve the same objectives as the suspended law, that serve precisely to preserve the right of housing and reduce the large number of empty habitats existing in Catalonia, to enhance the accessible logo and to define a full range of consents on actions in the field of housing. It was 15 days ago that it was known that the report on the annexes submitted contained important proposals for amendment; also the PRs approved for this Parliament. Last week the Bureau of this Parliament considered it unnecessary to make the single reading process and agreed on an extraordinary urgency. Beyond the preliminary draft, does the Government intend to take advantage of this opportunity and be receptive to the submissions submitted, or, on the contrary, does it consider those submissions to be resolved in accordance with the report submitted?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.27.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply to the governess, Public Administrations and Habitatge, Mrs Meritxell Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Member, we certainly regret and even agree with the fact that we are sorry, so we do not have, today, Law 24/2015; as you said, an approved law for the unanimity of this chamber. This is a fact that remains for us to be able to pull forward, so the project of giving response to the people that most require..., the need for a habitation. To give an answer, however, a whole series of things are going down; you were quoting some of them. From the outset, I will tell you that the first one that is political will, as there is, I am not sure, in this chamber, also in the Government of Catalonia, to give response to the need for housing. Secondly, it is also necessary, therefore, to have resources, and more than ever we have put resources on the table to give response to people's needs, and also legal and legal tools; Law 24 was one. We have put on the table a new law which, therefore, will pass the parliamentary procedure of urgency, but not with a single reading. And, therefore, it is in this sense, therefore, that it will be necessary to give it an answer. It will also be necessary to give, it will also be necessary to place the emphasis on the fact that people have the information they need to make use of the social services, to make use of the housing offices, and that, therefore, there is the necessary response from the institutions that are working intensively and that, therefore, the most vulnerable people are not without housing. We also, therefore, work together, the different institutions, with institutional loyalty – the assemblies, the regional councils, the parliament, the Government of Catalonia – and it is in this sense that as you know, because we have made public this first semester we have avoided more than two_ thousand charges; we have also done..., we have avoided since the year 2012 seven_ thousand charges. And respect the specific law that you asked me whether or not you are serious about accepting allegations, this is an issue that is no longer left in the hands of the government, this is an issue that is left in the hands of this Parliament and it will have to be the majority parliaments who establish how this law ultimately stands.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about court proceedings for sexual abuse of children and young people]] [[310-00123/11]] Sisena asks the Government about the judicial procedure for sexual abuse of children and young people. The question is posed by Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.30.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, in the past, as representing children and young people of this Government, he has been given the mandate to present himself as a popular accusation in proceedings instituted for sexual abuse of minors years of age, whenever these are found in school centres, and, or, well, under the guardianship of the Generality. We want to know if you have given instructions to the Central Judicial Office so that I will already appear in the proceedings opened in the cause of the Marists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.32.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for the question. As you know, the plethora was fifteen days ago. I had previously appeared in a committee explaining everything we are doing, to Government, for sexual abuse of children and adolescents. I had explained the particular accusation that we had presented in the case of Tortosa, which had already begun before the councillor, the year 2015, and which, therefore, we put there directly; that we had introduced ourselves to all those in whom they were children and adolescents. I explained why we had not presented ourselves to the Marist case, saying that it did not touch this particular department, because it was not a child, and that, therefore, who did it now was an adult person. We will complement what the House has said: we will present ourselves to all those cases where there are children, and that, therefore, the case of marists, therefore, like any other, which is not the case of marists, which is the case of abuse of a particular person, we will take it to legal services because they take it into account, whenever the victims want it. The government will never intervene in the middle of a desire for victims. Therefore, we are prepared to complete, as we have always done, everything that comes out of the resolutions of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.34.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, it's inadmissible that you haven't yet taken a stand in the cause of the Marists. My group can't hear it. I am sure that the majority of this Parliament is not, and the citizenry is certainly not. You know that by characterizing yourself as a popular accusation, you don't think the victim is still a child. So, tell us, counselor, what day do you think you're gonna do it? We consider it essential that this Government manifest its unmistakable rebuff of sexual abuse of children and young people, so as to give an unequivocal message to society. Being a person in cases of sexual abuse in educational centres is not only a question of justice and moral reparation to victims, it is also a first-class educational message to society. It must be visible that we do not tolerate this chakra. How is it, he will advise, that if you understand that you do not have to obey the laws of the State, consider, in change, guaranteeing the rights of the child for the prosecution, a body of officials of the State? We believe that Catalan children and young people must, in any case, be defended by our institutions, which are ultimately those who, through the law – a law in this Parliament, the law of rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence – are obliged to do so. How is it, counsel, that the protocol they have developed on sexual abuse does not include the alumnat of private centers? I suppose you've had a chance to read the syndic's report on child sexual abuse in Catalonia. It's a document that puts the hair at the top and shows what we've already said to him more than once: that we don't have data on child sexual abuse, but it still makes us think we're infringing it, or because we don't recognize its symptoms or because we look at another band. We therefore need a strong response. Counselor, what day do you think you stand in the case against the Marists? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.35.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.36.0	Thank you, President. Look, Congresswoman, what is intolerable is that you doubt the work that we are doing as the Government, what we do against sexual abuse, when we have repeated a thousand times that infants are to grow up safely, with family bonds, that there are no poor children but there are poor families, when we have repeated a thousand times that we are at the back, when we have characterized ourselves, with particular and non-popular accusation, but in particular, in the case of Tortosa, which was a case that directly affected this department. It's true that at the far end Ple came out of this subject. We're doing it. But it's been 15 days since this plenary. I can understand that the judicial services of the Generalitat are not dedicated to a single topic, but they are dedicated to many themes. Therefore, the compromise is, we have the compromise to be against any sexual abuse. And the subject of sexual abuse you know is much more complicated than what you say. There's the syndic's report, which says they're not all detected, but also if you look at any report from Europe you'll see that there's no country that detects all of them, because it's a bad thing. We will place sexual abuse of infants at the same level as abuse of male violence, and therefore we will be at the back of everyone, of everyone. Firm commitment from the Government, commitment from the Generality and more commitment to complete everything that comes out of this Parliament, which has a democratic mandate, and therefore we will complete everything. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the feeding alleys]] [[310-00120/11]] Sevena asks the government, about the groceries. The question is posed by Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.38.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Ruiz, in the yearbook of the Bofill Foundation, Professor Martínez Celorrio makes a statement that he should shame us, and shame us as a society, but especially you, the educational authority, the Government and those who support it: "Caltanya has the public investment in lower education in Europe and throughout the world developed, so that it can act now that the assumptions are being made to try to reverse the retail trade, that in its department they accumulate more than 900_million. Educational equity, she advises, goes through a fully funded and scholarship-rich education system. But you don't want to talk about it. Now he wants to embark the educational community on a participatory debate that says to him: "Now it's tomorrow, a left of his government to entertain the staff, so there's no time to talk that they're not deploying the FP Law, that they don't have a euro at the Bressol schools, that they don't publish the inclusive school decree, and that they're also holding the concerts of the schools that secrete by sex. Counselor, now it's not tomorrow; now, today, we have a decade back in social investment to our country. But today, Counselor, we want to talk about scholarships and we want you to explain to us what's going on with the groceries in our country. We know that there are more resources – and we congratulate them – than other years, but we also know that they are not enough, that many children and many young people who need them cannot choose them, and they also tell us the AMPAs, the local councils, the joints that are a little transparent system, with a faracious and slow management. What value does your department make?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member, yes, it is now tomorrow; and, in fact, it is now tomorrow because there was never so much money in this country to be spent on catering. They know of the presuppositionary restrictions this government has had and never in the history of Catalonia had spent so much money on food aid. And we don't just worry about the social situation, and we dedicate our resources to it, but also the pedagogical models. And that's why we started a debate, just a debate with the whole educational community to see where our education system has to go. I was wondering about the groceries. Look, we've done three things: first, a new model. The scholarships, in this country, before 2011 were not guaranteed, each county council had an import and depending on what it donated. At these times, it is already three courses that the scholarships are guaranteed, that the scholarships meet all the situations that occur during the course, that is why it is an open game that has grown every time, that the scholarships give coverage to the 100_per_cent of the beggars in the cases of the most needy and that the scholarships, basically, are taken into account by economic criteria. All this seems very basic before 2011, where in this country we have to say that there is a 19_percent poverty, this did not exist. But we have set ourselves up and we have given an answer to the resolution that this Parliament applied, changing Catalonia's sufficiency income index for the poverty bulwark index. And that's what we've decided to apply even before we have any presuppositions. And last but not least, we've eliminated the flexible tram, a petition that, I'm afraid, was a petition from the local councils, but some of them asked that they be eliminated and, after a consensus with them, we did. This led to today, today, without the call being closed, because it is open, 84.049 aid has already been given to Catalonia, 17,800 of which are 100_per_cent. Therefore, on the dates of this course last year, we have already donated more than 15,000 aids than at this very moment last year. Therefore, these shields have given, for the time being, their good results.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.42.0	He will advise, and if all is as wonderful as he says, as it is a resolution that he approved unanimously this plenary during the plenary session of the poor and that last week, in the general policy debate, my group asked that the application, its group had to seek the vote of Xavier García Albiol and his deputies why not approve? [[Some applause.]] Obviously they're not applying it when they're looking for the People's Party vote, because in this... in this, too, the right works. What we know about scholarships, she advises, is that you are not fulfilling the bar agreed upon unanimously in this Parliament. And what we want is for him to tell us how many thousands of families, that, according to Parliament, they would be right at the scholarship, you're denying it. How many families under the poor's coat don't have a scholarship to our house? We also want to know, she advises, what is going on with high school students, that with the daytime compaction they have gone without a scholarship, especially at public institutes. And, above all, she advises, yesterday she gave us an answer from the scholarships to the cent_per_cent. And what you're saying is that there's less scholarships than the previous one. This is the reality of the fellowships. You're ruining the public education system, you're all over it, and what we want is for you to fix it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.44.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission, if anything could harm you at the time... – I'm saying that because you said it, huh? , not because I want to get to this level of debate–, however, it was the system of scholarships that existed before, which you had donated, grants to yields of 85,000 euros. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If that's not bad for the public system, they'll explain to me what's bad for the public system. [[Some applause.]] But, well... I won't be talking about looking for votes either. It seems that in Madrid the PP will be able to govern and make its social policies with the votes or abstentions of the PSOE. [[Some applause.]] But let me tell you what we'll do with ESO's burrows. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I won't have time. [[Widow's remorse.]] I know it's hard, because I won't have time, and I want to explain what we're gonna do with ESO's fellowships.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the job inspection]] [[310-00121/11]] Vuitena asks the government, about the job inspection. The question is posed by Mrs Laura Vílchez, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Sorry, they're telling me it's Mr. Joan García. Well, they're not telling me, he's telling me. [[The president laughs.]] Excuse me, huh? This is where Laura Vílchez was. So, ask the question, Mr. Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.46.0	Thank you, President. No... she's forgiven, of course. [[Rialles.]] Constellera Bassa, 2012 was passed to the Generalitat a good part of the competitions of the job inspection. It created a consortium with the State that provided the Generality with enough tools to fight against labor leftlessness. So, well, last month we knew the strong rise of labor leftlessness in the first half of 2016: an 11.6_per_cent, the highest since 2012. From these data we often find personal dramas of workers who perform their activity, in many cases, in precariousness. Therefore, Consul Bassa, taking into account that they have all the tools, all the competitive tools, to face this difficult situation, which effective measures will take their department to fight against the scourge of labor leftlessness?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.47.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Responses Constellera Dolors Bassa, Constellera de Traball, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.48.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. You see, you're right, and we've said, from the very beginning, that labor left-handedness is a serious problem, and we've put all the possible measures in place, and I'll explain it. You explain that there is an increase, it is evident at the time when there is a rebound in the general economy at the macro level, but at the micro level it represents a generation of more jobs. There are more movements, so there is more leftoverness on the way, but also among the companies. For this reason from a good moment we started sending 1,200 cards to companies where we already detected some more left-handed themes. And, as of last month, we have started some additional measures that, then, I will explain to you, if you want, point one by one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.49.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.50.0	Counselor, first, hasn't answered me, and I think she'll do it later, but what's explaining to me is an excuse. In the end, the growth of labor left-handedness is much above the growth of activity, in this case, and from seniors to social security. But, well, you're responsible, and you're responsible for the left-handedness of the job, because it's you who have stopped, for example, making campaigns like the follow-up of multi-service businesses; some businesses driven by a job reform that you gave support to. Because it is you who have eliminated the high-left-wing campaign to turn it into a simple newsletter for businesses, when they visited these businesses before. Or because you are unable to design help for work prevention for self-employed people, because you only create placebos: you have announced the conversion of the Institute of Safety and Health at Work, that there was already, in another structure of state, two weeks later, twenty-one professionals, before the criticisms of the same professionals and the unions, which they ask for, in fact, more resources. Some resources, Madam Counselor, that could be drawn from the 50_millions that will cost us your Catalan heritage, empty of contents, to strengthen the inspection of work; perhaps, it is an idea. Doesn't it consider it more important to use these 50_millions, or a part, as at least, because the workers who already work in precariousness don't have to leave for their integrity when they work? It is obvious that with this management you yourselves are in evidence before all the pre-eminences and supremacisms that you have used so far. And we come to a conclusion: no matter who, but the comm, and it seems that the comm makes sharp. Consellera Bassa, you must choose; choose between ruling or continuing to flatter the head in the perforation of victimism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.52.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, I don't think he's heard of the issues. As for left-handedness, I've talked about the 1,200 cards, but you know that we've been doing a study and this study shows that 0.1_percent of Catalonian businesses have 15_percent of left-handedness; that means 263 companies that have had this higher left-handedness these six years. We have fully dedicated ourselves and the inspection is on these 263 companies, because we know that if we control these companies it will lower the left-handedness. That's for a band. For the other, you talk about the Institute of Salvation. Listen, these 20 techs, which are enabled techs, go straight to the job inspection; we're talking about a good principle. Talk to one for one of the technicians and they'll tell him that what they want is to go through it all, because what they have clear is that it's time to do it, it's not time to do more study; we have a lot of study, and so let's leave an institute because you're doing research, more than day-to-day study, and the other technicians are going through the job inspection to get all the studies that have been done and haven't been put to practice for many years. Therefore, left-handedness will be and is one of the most important points in which it attacks and in which the inspection of work takes place day by day on the street. So, our job is what we're doing. I think we're on the right track, that we're going to try to lower left-handedness and that we're going to try to be on the side of all companies because labor safety regulations come back to being up to date, as they haven't been these last few years for other issues that you know very well. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about childhood]] [[310-00122/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on childhood, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Now yes, you have the word Mrs. Laura Vílchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.54.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Do you know the Alba case? Do you know the Castelldans case? The Marist Case? Or the tail children? These are just examples that show that the Government has neither done nor does good work to protect Catalan children. The most recent case, this same summer: the disarticulation of a child pornography network that had been operating for 13 years and which had also captured children protected by the Generalitat. A month ago you came to committee and gave us very little rigorous information, because you informed us that there were seven foster children involved and within a few days we were already thirteen. He also acknowledged that it was the mossos who alerted the centers, another example that the protection system is not in itself capable of detecting these types of cases. As was to be expected, you self-propelled your management and sold us a new declaration of intent; you call it today's commitments. Councillor, can you tell us what real measures you are going to take so that this does not happen again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply, Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.56.0	Thank you, President. As you very well said, I compared explaining this case, not the others, because, obviously, she's talking to me about a few years ago, she's talking about Castelldans, about others that were many years ago, and so I can't answer it in depth, but this case I know very well and I explained it very well to the committee. We had seven children; at the end of a few days, thirteen, and they would not go out, because we are talking about children not being protected by DGAIA procedures or being detected by EAIAs, but children from Catalonia, children from Valencia, children from the rest of the State, and I explained this very well. Therefore, we are responsible for all children and we will bring the protection of all those who live in Catalonia, not of those who came out who are from Valencia, Navarre or other places, which you know have gone out. As for who warned, it was from DGAIA, therefore, it was the professionals who are at the DGAIA centres who warned the movements and who did so. I explained it very well, it is explained, but more so, in a matter of transparency protocol, since last month, it has all the data of DGAIA, which had never been done, to the web itself of DGAIA and, therefore, can take all the information that you need, because I believe that this government we have very clearly is that transparency must be above all else. Therefore, everything you go through will be informed, the same. It's an open dispatcher and we can't say more than there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.58.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, don't answer me. And really, do you really believe that this policy of advertising or this policy of not saying anything is going to prevent such situations from continuing to occur? Go ahead and applaud the work of the professionals, who do enough with the resources they have, but, counsel, as long as we do not see, of all this that tells us, a calendar, as long as we do not see it reflected in the budgets, but as long as, above all, we do not see results, we will put their intentions in the same bag where we have the intentions of the former counsel, Mrs Munté, because we believe that the children in Catalonia need no more appointments, no more government agreements, no more photos, no more pacts. What they need are prevention policies, and fostered children need you to guarantee them a guardian who is more like a father or mother, and they will not find him until these professionals have a job stability and go out and enter the centers constantly. In short, counsel, if you protect those children, protect them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.59.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.60.0	Congresswoman, what we don't allow from this government is that it's demagogic with infants and young people and adolescents. [[Greetings.]] If we approve agreements, precisely, it is to move forward, and never as now have so many agreements with this year 2016. Interdepartmental agreements, especially with education, with Health and Justice, and agreements that go beyond, which is about the effective protection of child and adolescent abuse. Apart from agreements, commissions are discussed day by day how they can move forward. The professionals are on the case, they have training and we mean we would do more, and here we are with courses for the professionals. But look, I'll tell you this: the wards aren't just the ones we have at DGAIA, but protection is for all the children and teenagers in Catalonia, and I'm telling you very clearly, because the program of support for the graduates, 2,300 young people who have already come out, we continue to guard them one by one every day. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the referendum]] [[317-00081/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mrs Anna Gabriel, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.62.0	Yes, hello, good morning, everyone. Since the past general policy debate, this country has been called to a referendum, as it was very late in September 2017. In the event that the referendum is won, a transitional period begins that brings us up to some constituent elections, like very late, six months later. There are, therefore, no choices to replace this reference, there is no reference to anything other than independence. Actually, there's no reference to the three laws or there's no reference to what exactly we don't know. It is a reference of self-determination, it is a reference in which the country answers 'yes' or 'no to independence, in favour of or against independence with a clear question. If it is true that we have understood and that we have made it clear, we ask that you yourself, that the government that you preside over and the group of parties and people that support this government is not moving a thousand-fold of this approach and that it makes it clear that you, and not others, want to get to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality, Mr Carles Puigdemont.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.64.0	Thank you very much; thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gabriel, it is clear that we understand exactly the same thing that you understand when we say that we are faithful and loyal to what this Parliament approves in the meaning of the reference. I would also like to remind you that we also have a mandate from this Parliament to try to ensure that this reference can be as far as possible, not just with the Spanish State, but with international instigations and, therefore, we do not deviate from the compromise. This people will vote "yes or "no to independence and the government works to call this reference. If it is a negotiated reference, can it be opened to the possibility – as has been stated – that, in addition to this question, which is indefensible, may there be other questions about which Catalans are asked? The compromise has always been this one – it has always been this one – but this does not prevent that, since the approval of the resolution, this government already works in this direction that you identified.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.65.0	Thank you, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.66.0	Yes, in fact, we have always said this, also in the general policy debate, and today, we are clear that the State will not agree to this reference. In fact, we are clear that the State has no intention of allowing this reference. It's a state that's quoting our registrars to the National Court to have debates in its municipalities. It is a state that is gathering the prosecutor's office and the prosecutor's office of Catalonia to initiate criminal disputes. In fact, it is a state that makes the ridiculous in conferences of the Diplomacy to Brussels, passing people of the diplomatic cos for master students to boycott these acts. It's a state that won't make anything easy and that will boycott everything. That's why we as Democrats are clear that we have to work to summon this reference, and as independents we have the intention, precisely, to work to win it. And to win this reference, we are clear that it is done from social policies and from advances towards equality. Therefore, we ask you to summon the summit of parties and entities for the referendum, to summon the society, to summon its political and social agents and to summon its municipalities, which are already taking every step to summon and celebrate this referendum. You said to the conference recently held in Paris that you would fight those who want to destroy the European Union. We understand that it is precisely because of the rise of the right, of the rising xenophobia and of those formations which do not believe in the European Union, but we must add that we understand that the European Union, precisely, wants to create the right and the extreme right for its policies, because it destroys a certain idea of Europe associated with rights and democracy is the same European Union, with the debt, with the details and with the precariousness, with racist policies and with the aim of preventing human rights. A European Union that is complicit in mass wars, that is complicit, often, of massive economic interests that are afloat. To win this reference, it should be made clear that we have social policies and progress in the area of rights and freedoms. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.68.0	Thank you very much. Actually, we have before us a state that doesn't give signs, not wanting to wake up, but wanting to talk. In fact, who has suggested that it might be good to talk to the independenceists to hear that they may have something to say, therefore, the few people who have liked to say this have almost been expelled from politics. And so, it's true, we have a state that's not up. Does that mean that we must abandon the idea and insist on the idea that there must be room for dialogue and agreement? We won't. We're the ones in the dialogue and the pact, because that's where this country's consensus is. If someone does not practice dialogue and pact, not be us, it will be the Spanish State. And believe me, of the things that are observed from the world, this, every day is clearer. Not just for the ridiculous thing that the State does when it sends students from..., in short, or false students to the University of Louvain to raise the saying in a conference and makes the ridiculous, not the person, makes the ridiculous State with attitudes like this, but because, effectively, the world also inquires and has an interest in informing itself. Clearly, there will have to be as many meetings as possible of the groups and entities that support the reference, but let's step forward. There will be no reference if there is no presumption, obviously; it is a fact that has already been made clear. There won't be one step ahead of another. And for what it does to the European Union, when we say, effectively, that we must fight those who threaten it, we refer, effectively, to xenophobia, to populisms, which are jeopardizing the founding values of the European Union, to which Catalonia is linked, not now: historically and secularly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.69.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his willingness to negotiate with the Government of the State the twenty-three points that President Mas presented to President Rajoy and the degree of compliment of the girl claims]] [[317-00085/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Groupe Parlamentari Partit Popular de Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.70.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, in the last plenary of general policy, you said that you could hardly negotiate, to talk to President Mariano Rajoy, since since the year 2012 he had had on his table twenty-three proposals that the President had brought to him but that he had not given an answer to any of them. I told him, and I told him again, that that statement was lied to, and I urged him to take it to a table, publicly, you and I, and to go over point to see the level of compliment. It's been 15 days, and you haven't given any signs of life in this aspect. The question is, are you willing, Mr. President, to go to a table and pass before the public opinion to point out the degree of compliment of those twenty-three points that President But handed to President Rajoy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Albiol, there are no longer twenty-three, but forty-six, who are the ones I gave them to me, to the meeting we held in La Moncloa with the president – then in operation, today still in operation – of the Spanish State. Do you know what the answer to these forty-six points has been so far? Zero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.73.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.74.0	Mr. President, I'm offering you your sister to pass the forty-three points. We start with the twenty-three, and then we follow with the rest. Why do you have so much for, Mr. President? Why don't you want to give your face? You, when you're in addition to epic, grandiose, ambiguous and empty phrases, you're left with no arguments. This attitude, Mr President, makes it clear that they are unable to make any concrete proposals. The reality dispels your arguments, and is that 80_percent of what you claim obeys a fictional scenario. Today, the Government of Spain is helping, working with Catalans. While, for example, you and your government decide to allocate €700,000 to bid for works for the Catalan Tax Agency, for some skills that you do not have, we have known that, for example, the concerted hospitals will not charge half of the bill for the month of August they have pending, because there are no economic resources. We have seen that while you spend money in the independence process, Catalonia has more than one thousand and a hundred children..., there are more than one thousand and a hundred schools to study..., or so they are barracks where children are under conditions that are not eligible. While you spend money on embassies all over the world, in Catalonia we have more than 800,000 people on the health waiting list. Why do you have so much to face up to? Mr President, let's create conflicts, less seek confrontation with the Government of Spain, more give face and assume their responsibilities. [[Someone says, "Very good. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.76.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Albiol, here's the forty-six-point report. I don't have time, but I'd love to read them - one by one, because you'll see that many of these points aren't just – not just – have not been complete, but some petitions have been directly incomplete. And, in any case, Mr Rajoy, if he has the opportunity to be invested more beyond the votes of the People's Party, and with the help of Citizens and the Socialist Party, the president of the government ends up, I will complement what I said. I'll call him to congratulate him – which he hasn't done yet – and I'll ask him for an hour. And I will ask him now to explain to him what this Parliament approves, what this Parliament wants to do, and to stretch it out, if I may, the ears, kindly. Because of these forty-six points..., as the Vice President told Vice President Junqueras at the follow-up meeting of the development of these petitions, these points – no such points – were complicable. Second of all, for what you're doing... you made a reference, if I didn't get it wrong, that I was wondering if this government would invest in the tax agency. Are you in favour of or against fighting the tax fraud? Because I've already heard a few comments from the groups, let's say, that to oppose independence they're suggesting we don't allocate resources to the tax agency. So, look, they're wrong, and they're going to have a disappointment. The country we're building the tax fraud will fall to the levels that you've never been able to lower in these forty years of Spanish democracy. [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you understand me? And this will be done through a tax agency, it won't do it any other way. [[Greetings.]] It will not be done – it will not be done – through select fiscal combs, as the Spanish Government is doing in Catalonia, fiscal combs that, in 2015, represented a 45_per_cent more increase in Catalonia and a 7_per_cent more increase in the rest of the State. And I'm looking at this 45_per_cent recuperation increment figures in Catalonia, and you know how much it was? 8_per_cent. And do you know what this 7_percent increase in tax inspections in Spain was? The 27_per_cent more recap. Therefore, the problem of tax fraud is in Spain and is not in Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] Now, you, as always, become emboldened – you, as always, become emboldened – to sweep it all up and to discuss any reversal that this government is making that it is destined for what you say in the "independent process". Miri, do you know what we can do? The money that it took them to repeat the second choices, that they give us, that we can complete the half of the things that you find missing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.77.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the forecast of parties in the assumptions of the Generalitat for 2017 in order to apply the guaranteed income of citizens]] [[317-00084/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.78.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, president, a parenthesis before I ask you the question. Because from..., and I'm telling you this from the institutional joy that we've always wanted to show in this chamber, opinions are free, but missing the truth in his parliament is not acceptable, especially when he's a counselor or a counselor who does. I would not like to refer to the history of the Law's drafting process of urgent measures in the field of housing, but I do wish to tell the Councillor that she has just done a demagogic act and that the truth is that this law cannot be dealt with because of our parliamentary group. And let's get them to the council – an illustrative reading – the minutes of the Bureau of this Parliament that discussed this issue. Says thus: « Request for processing for the single reading procedure – which is, indeed, the government's wish. "In relation to this point, there are various interventions. The third secretary believes that processing is urgent, but that it does not correspond to the single reading procedure. The second vice-president and the second secretary also consider that, for the sake of the nature of the text, it is not possible to apply the single reading procedure. The secretary-general made some specific points of respect and the president proposed that the draft law should be submitted by way of extraordinary urgency and without extension, and that was adopted unanimously by the Bureau. I'm closing the parenthesis. [[Greetings.]] The question, the question is the following: a few days ago, the last dilluns, we were here in Parliament to visit a platform, of the platform Poor Zero, which reminded us and alerted us about the delay in the compliment of measures taken in the plenary, of urgency also, about the situation of the poor and inequalities them. Now that we are dealing with the debate on assumptions, we want to ask the following question, very concrete, that yesterday the Vice-President takes refuge: in relation to these accounts that he is presenting, is his Government willing to take a tour in tax matters, in the matter of the taxes that he manages and can develop the Generality, to implement, if not – or to begin to implement, if not – a guaranteed income of citizenship?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.80.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, in relation to the first part of his intervention, which I believe was not addressed to the President, and therefore should have been the subject of the turn, in any case, of questions to the Government, which has already been, and which has been answered in any way by the Councillor, or, in any case, a subsequent question, because Parliament already has mechanisms because the control session, on the turn of questions to the President, is addressed to the President, not to the Councillor, that at this time he cannot use the word and that I am convinced that with a lot of pleasure he could answer it, for example, that if the Government was actually removed from this petition, it was precisely to maintain a position of unity, that the Government would not be left alone, given the disposition of its group, and that the whole thing is done. We're already working on this. In any case, this is a debate that, if you have an interest in continuing it, I am sure it will advise you, be in commission or be in question in this Parliament, you will have a lot of interest in continuing to clarify. Indeed, we are developing the compliment of the agreements of the Ple of the Poor. In fact, a few days from now, you'll be selling, there'll be the other round, the other round meeting, to check out, and as you know and as the whole chamber knows, the follow-up of our commitments has been published on the web. We've always said – we've always said –, and I'll say it without meaning anyone's guilt, that if we don't have assumptions, many of these commitments, objectively, we can't fulfill them. Let's keep it honest and honest. And I insist that, no, now I'm not retracting anything or putting pressure on anyone; it's an objective fact: we won't have enough resources to put them at the disposal of those commitments. You're asking for a turn. The game that suits is the social game, because there can be perfectly, and it is compatible, a tax game that is not translated into social policies, with which we would have made a bargain doubts. So, are we on condition that we can make a social turn on the assumptions on the line that we've already compromised and that translate it into assumptions? I say yes. It's more, I invite you, I invite you, to work on this front, because there is scope to be able to do what seems to me to be looking for both, and I am convinced that a large majority of groups in this country, which is ultimately serving people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.81.0	Thank you, President. It has the word Mr. Rabell; it has eleven_seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.82.0	All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. No, the question is... let's not go back to the abstract debate about the assumptions. Miri, if you want us to throw ourselves at the assumption, you have very clearly: we debate the upper section of the IRPF, we debate the tax on estates and donations, we debate tax deductions, and we commit ourselves to this for the guaranteed income of citizens. From here on out, maybe we'll have assumptions. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.83.0	Thank you. Congressman, answer? [[Pause.]] Fourteen seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.84.0	You're right, in tea; I'm also a congressman, yes. [[Rialles.]] I believe that we can move closer if we admit that truly what we can do, ambitious objectives – not to cover holes, not to stick sticks, but ambitious – in social policies, that we know them..., and that we actually have a serious financing problem here, and that we do not solve it – not the resolution – with some pointy tact that you know you can't go anywhere and that you can represent a horticulture of entrances that is really very insufficient to deal with and address the problem of wealth that you and we have diagnosed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.85.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the presentation in his parliament of the changes in the full route of the Government]] [[317-00082/11]] Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.86.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. President, I wanted to ask you for some clarifications about some changes that seem to be produced in your government's full route. We knew the full route of Junts for the Yes: state structures, declaration of independence, constituent elections, Catalan constitution and reference to approve the constitution. This full route was modified, in the sense of introducing some disconnection laws in parallel with the creation of summer structures, and it seems that the declaration of independence remained after the constituent elections. Then, with the approval of the Resolutions of the Constituent Committee of the Study of the Process, of 27 July, there appeared a ghostly assembly constituted, which was who was to draw up the Catalan draft constitution. One assembly is that it is a once called, elected and constituted assembly with full powers; that the decisions of this assembly are binding compliments for the rest of public powers and for all physical and legal persons; and that the decisions of the assembly would not be subject either to control, suspension or challenge by other powers, judicial or court. Aim for the separation of powers; I don't know if that, when you explained it to Paris, you should hear it well. But then, in the full route was included the reference with preview character to the constituent elections; a reference granted or unilateral to celebrate, in any case, by September, we heard, of the year you see. We already know that we consider that the negotiation of the referendum, in itself very difficult, is impossible from the moment your government states that it will convene in any case. And you know that we consider that a unilateral reference would be a repetition of the 9-N consultation, without practical effects. As you know, we believe that no unilateral initiative can solve the issue. But what would please us, President, and this is the object of the question, is that in his parliamentary office, and not so much in statements to a Portuguese newspaper or in a conference in Paris, I say exactly what the path is, what the full road is, when the celebration of the referendum that charged Vice-President Junqueras and Councillor Romeva, when he intends to approve the declaration of independence, when the so-called constituent elections will be held and where that assembly remains, is that it should be the delirgator of the process.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.88.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, I've told you that I'm truly moved by your interest in knowing the accuracy of the full route. You look like a hyperventilated independenceist, who still didn't think we were doing it. I thank him, because he gives me the opportunity, once more, to clarify what I have already said to the debate on the question of trust, I believe that with sufficient clarity, I believe that it cannot be said that we do not speak clearly, and that I have said there where I have had the opportunity to speak, and where I have had the ability to come and listen, as, for example, I have done not only in Paris these three days, but only a week and a little while ago in Madrid. And I understand that you're asking, because your party didn't come practically to anyone. Mr. Gabilondo's here, and he's almost there. And, on the other hand, if you had any interest in knowing everything that you asked, it would have been as simple as losing it by listening to the dissenters and coming to hear what the President of the Generality has to say, so that he went to Madrid to see..., and so that he spoke to the castle, to hear exactly what he had to say. Look, change in the full route: change, head; the goal of this country is to want to be an independent state. Is that clear to you? Do you have any doubts about this government's proposal? What's wrong? Then, according to the light, this government will determine the safest and most effective way to become an independent state. No doubt about that? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Third, on the way to clarify what citizen support the project to independence, we've sorted out the reference tool. Clear. And we've sorted it from two possible ways, and we'll work them from two possible ways. So, it's clear, that. I also spoke to him about the dates; the dates, almost with a precision of Swiss watchmaker. And I told him, too, about the phases, and what it meant to be able to get to the referendum call. So, if you want, then, in the thirty-seconds that I'm left, I'll just clear it up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.89.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.90.0	President, from a democratic point of view, I find it very worrying that the President of the Generalitat will call on the members of the Catalan Parliament to listen to him in Madrid, in Paris or in Portuguese law to know what he wants to do. [[Greetings.]] But as we are used to this dispute at the time of answering questions to Parliament, I will also make it serve. President, when will the elections be? When will he declare independence? What day will you do the reference? And we're at the assembly, what are they boasting about? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.92.0	Thank you very much. I would suggest something more similar to his obligations, which is to pass the debate on the question of trust to the session paper, where I said that there would be the reference to the second fortnight of September, that the laws would be approved at the end of July, and, therefore, that there would be, after the reference, the proclamation of independence, if we won. Obviously, that's why I don't have any doubts. And, therefore, I don't think you're going to the conference; I just want to say that when I head to the chamber, and I think that I've done it with all clarity, you're holding back the fundamentals of the process to the independence of this country, in which this government is being compromised. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.93.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about expenditure on the creation of state structures and on the government's fiscal policy]] [[317-00080/11]] Fourteen questions, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in this plenary, once again we will see what the priorities of the Government are and how the creation of what you call'state structures', the Catalan CNI and the Catalan tax agency is being handled. Because of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia we Catalans pay too many taxes and we have to keep too many political bars, more than any other autonomous community in Spain, and that is an objective and published fact. Fifteen days ago, in the general policy debate, Citizens presented a proposal in this plenary so that taxes could be lowered to the middle and working class of Catalonia. And you voted against, you refused. And besides, they don't even want to talk about fiscal policy, we saw it yesterday in a couple of arrests, and they don't want to talk about fiscal policy because they don't agree, they don't agree on a model, and that affects the Catalan pocket. My question is very easy, Mr Puigdemont. Are you going to be able to continue spending millions of euros on new structures, on your structures, on independence, while refusing to lower taxes on the Catalan working class? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, one day they will have to realize exactly these millions of euros that you say we spend on structures for independence where they are, because we would like to be able to dispose of it, as at least, because they may be somewhere, they know and some things that are now very difficult for us are more meaningful. Because this attempt to confuse public opinion, which we are a government that is only concerned about an obsessive thing that does not lead to anything, in the end it will pass, so, as it happens in Europe, that when it sees what is actually going on in Catalonia it begins to ask questions. He starts asking questions, and he says, "Look, and how can you stand it, how can you stand that 8_percent of GDP every year is gone and not come back? How can you stand that the Mediterranean Railway Corridor doesn't work? Do you, all of this, think about putting up with it or did this independence go through these things? So, look, that's what it's about. Now, let's get to the concrete. You will surely be determined to form a government in Spain a few days from now. Do you think you're asking the Spanish Government, do you think you're asking the Spanish Government, that Catalonia has the financial sufficiency that it deserves, recognized for it, to be able to then implement measures, to what we can agree, to try to reduce pressure on the lower and middle classes of this country, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.97.0	Thank you, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. At the moment I am not President of the Generalitat, and I think this is a monitoring session for the President of the Government. But since you spoke of the organic financing law of the Autonomous Communities, we presented it in the general policy debate and you voted against it. Of course, the system of financing the autonomous communities must be reformed! [[Greetings.]] But don't buy your lies. Because, do you know who even denied 8_per_cent of GDP? Mr. Mas-Colell himself, who has too much international prestige to follow his lies. But, look, I tell you one thing: when you speak of your own state, what you mean is that you want to appropriate the state; when you talk of your own estate, what you mean is that you want to make your own, the one you control, the one that is at the service of independence, not at the service of citizenship, and it is the dream of the party of Pujol and the 3-per-cent, to have its judges and its own estate. That's what everybody knows. [[Greetings.]] But I'll tell you one thing: you don't answer me, you don't talk about fiscal policy, you don't talk about whether you're going to lower taxes on Catalans, because you don't have a tax model, because you don't have a project for Catalonia beyond independence. You spend all day creating structures and are dismantling the state of well-being. And with regard to the road map of independence..., if that, rather than a road map, is a maze, in which you are lost and return to the exit box, that even the CUP has had to make an observatory of the process. Man, please! I think Catalonia deserves an alternative; it deserves a serious, sensible alternative that does not ask impossible, because we will never ask you impossible at a time of crisis like this. But what you are doing is neither realistic, nor sensible, nor unites Catalans, but what you are doing is quite the opposite. When you come back to reality, when you once again acknowledge that you have been wrong, here you will again make an alternative parliamentary majority that thinks of all Catalans, which is quite the opposite of what you are doing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, in the forty-six proposals I sent to Mr. Rajoy, and I see that I have sent them to you, too, because of the influence they have in Madrid, you will see that there is a very long list of concretions that just help to have more money than Catalans destined for the most disadvantaged Catalans; for example, of the 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF, with Constitutional judgments included, for example, or the management of scholarships, for example. And, therefore, at the time of wanting to accuse a government of being or not, to be or not compromised in the service to the most disadvantaged citizens, so, look, you, now that you tend to have the opportunity to infuse in Madrid, can guarantee that you will not pass away from it but give us reason to an accredited complaint. And if you're worried about the dismantling of the welfare state, it's good to be worried about it, because we've just learned the economic data of Spanish pensions and, believe me, we're very scared. Spanish scares in this sense, because he won't be able to pay the pensions. Can you guarantee that you can pay the pensions? So, at these times every time there are more Catalans, of course, and I am convinced that too many Spaniards, that we begin to doubt that the Government, the 3_per_cent government of Barcenas, is able to correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the response of the Government of the State to the offer of a dialog for the celebration of a referendum granted on the independence of Catalonia]] [[317-00083/11]] Fifteenth question to the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.102.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, in the last plenary this Parliament approved for the most part the'reference or reference to complete the process towards independence. And also, in the question of trust as in the general policy debate, it was expressed the willingness to try as this reference is done in an agreed manner with the State, but obviously we would not be left with folded arms. This same willingness to do so in agreement with the State expressed it very explicitly at the conference that was held in Madrid. The response of the State has already seen and occurred in its different forms... or, to put it better, in its worst forms. The first, that of the underprivileged to the institution of the Presidency of the Generality, with a total absence to its conference, different, for example, from many ambassadors; another form was through the "no, no, no, no, no, after the Council of Ministers. We have also seen the response of the State through the intensification of the judicial and criminalization of the political debate here in Catalonia, already because of a complaint that is presented against the President of the Parliament – who we take advantage of, in her parliament, to express all our support for her – already through citations, like the Mayor of Berga, to hang and hold a stellate, now against a director of Vic, to explain such a simple thing – as a trout is doing – or chasing many together, some of whom have had to open necessarily on October 12. And also, in case that was a little, so, with the amount and it goes on, that, frankly, we have already lost count, of all the challenges and petition for suspensions of that which here, making use of our powers and sovereignty, we approve, to Parliament, right? We see that this is going to be a no stop. But we also warned that they would not stop, and that, therefore, we would continue with the democratic mandate of 27 September. Its referent, that of the State, are the courts; our referent are the ballot boxes. That is why, President, we want to say, after these agreements that this Parliament has held, what appreciation for the response to the State to its offer of a dialogue for an agreement to hold a referendum for the independence of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.103.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Turull, indeed, there have been no good answers from the point of view that, in this Parliament, by a very large majority, we have again made a bet for the dialogue, for the agreement, to resolve in a political way what is a political problem, and we have been answered not only by the 'no to the cube', the 'no to the cube', the 'no to the cube', but also by an extension of this judicial strategy. In fact, the government's judicial rage is inversely proportional to its courage and democratic compromise. It's a sad answer. For now it's what there is, but we won't fail, because we are convinced that in the dilemma of protecting people..., if in order to protect people... you've made reference to the equality of men and women, or you've made reference to the Habitat Law, or you've made reference to the gatherings that, yes or yes, on a day when they were supposed to be theoretically partying, they decided to work to help the citizens. If between protecting people... if protecting people is violating or dynamizing the State, who has the problem is the State, not the people. So a state may feel violated or questioned or dynamite because an assembly of the Maresme opens on October 12 to attend, for example, to the consequences of the riuedas, is that it has a problem is the State. And, therefore, if this creates a problem with the State... Historically, Catalanism had tried to transform the State; it has not gone away, on the contrary, it has not gone away; what we have to try to do is to make a new state in which these things do not happen; that between the dilemma of protecting people, disadvantaged people, or shielding the State, you prefer to sort out people. In this sense, the answer, indeed, is disappointing; it is disappointing of a government that, moreover, does not stop saying that we are concerned..., not only directly, but through its already parliamentary allies, that we are only concerned about independence. So, look, at these moments the Delegation of the Government of the State in Catalonia pursues the gatherings, not so that it can not attend the people in need, no, no, not to bend the Spanish flag, to boost fiscal sovereignty, to pay the quota of the AMI, to declare Catalan territories free and will rise, to open the gathering on October 12. In total – in total – more than four hundred resources of the State against Catalan assemblies; heads of them – heads of them – in order not to be adequately protecting people, because they do not have an argument to say, but rather for questions, these yes, symbolic, identities, patriotism, which they do not serve. Of these four hundred resources of the State, paid for by all the citizens, do not serve to improve the lives of our fellow citizens. But we will not fail, we will insist, because what characterises this country too is this culture of permanent pact and permanent dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.105.0	Thank you, President. [[Accumulated Presumption Projects of the Parliament of Catalonia, the Council of Statutory Guarantees, the Union of Accounts and the Syndicate of Greuges for 2017]] [[230-00003/11 and 230-00004/11]] After the control session, let's move on to the 8th item of the order of the day, which is: Project of presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia for 2017. By agreement of the Expanded Bureau, this item on the agenda will be substantiated jointly with item 9, relating to the draft assumptions of the Board of State Guarantees, the Syndicate of Greuges and the Union of Accounts for 2017. In the presentation will be made by the first vice president, Mr. Lluís Maria Corominas. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.106.0	Thank you, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.107.0	One moment. One moment, Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.108.0	Yes, I hope – I hope.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.109.0	...that they're freaking out. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, I'm in a hurry and in silence to continue the session. [[Pause.]] Vice President, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.110.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, I am close to presenting the presumption of the Catalonian Parliament for 2017, and, as the President has said, we also include the explanation of point 9, which is the Project of presumption of statutory entities: the syndic of accounts, the syndic of Greuges and the Council of Statutory Guarantees. In fact, the intervention will be brief – I do it on behalf of the Bureau –, it will be brief for two reasons: one, it has been approved for the Expanded Bureau, and the other, because this explanation practically corresponds to what we did a few months ago with the Presupposition Project that we did in 2016, which ultimately did not succeed, because the Generality's assumptions were not approved. Therefore, in order not to abhor them with the same data, practically, which we presented at that time, we would make a more brief explanation. First of all, to say that this 2017 the increment respects the presupposition of 2015 – therefore, two years presuppostari – is 3.29, but if we look at it respect the project that we have presented of 2016 is a 0.94_per_cent. Also, in absolute numbers, it goes..., it is balanced to 53,650,703_euros; this supposes an increment of 1,700,000_euros respect the presupposition of 2015– therefore, two exercises presuppostaris– and supposes 498,000_euros respect the non-presupposition of 2016, which we approved in the Plea of May. Regarding the reduction that this represents, I will refer to it more later, but I note that they follow the optimization of resources and the content responsible for the resources that we have. And respect for the 2010 presupposition is, like, seven presuppositions, there's a decrease of 18.21_per_cent. And respect the 2015 assumption that it's a 3,29 bid. If we look back, respect this 2010, which was the last year that we had a more incremental assumption, because of the availability of resources, there are no chapters in Parliament's budget that today, seven years later, have more resources than 2010. That is to say, they have passed seven years and to Chapter I we have passed from 27_million_i_mig to 26_million; to Chapter II, from 13,240,000 to 10,100,000; to Chapter IV, from 17_million to 15,800,000, and to Chapter VI, from 7_million to 900,000_EUR. Therefore, we have gone from the 65_million that we assumed the year 2010 to the 53 that we assumed for 2017, always having, during these years, a significant decrease, because of this optimization of the resources that commented on them. If we go by chapters, there are few variations and they focus basically on chapter I, staff, and chapter II, on current and good expenses and services. With regard to Chapter I, the increment is, in absolute terms, in 2015, of more than €1 million, 1,300,000, and it corresponds basically to the incorporation of the '1_per_cent of the remuneration of the officials, of the workers of the Parliament; it also corresponds to the plan that we have done to give new seats to the Parliament, the 2015-2019 plan, that we start to execute – know that during all these years the Parliament has not provided new seats; from this 2017 we already have new seats –, and also to complete the transitional arrangement according to the Rules of Parliament respect the salaries of the deputies and the deputies. With regard to Chapter II, the increase in almost half a million euros, EUR 455,000, is at EUR 10,109,000, and this increase is basically supported by new contracts that we have to make with equipment that have already been depreciated and that, therefore, do not have this expenditure of rent, and, when making the new purchase, we have incorporated this expenditure and, basically, they are located in which they are computer computers, which are also refrigeration systems, etc. To Chapter IV, which are current transfers, there is a decrease of 114,000 euros. In Chapter IV there are only two concepts: the ILPs and the transfers we make to parliamentary groups. During these years we have been lowering transfers to parliamentary groups, to leave them in a stable amount, and also respect the ILPs, the game, therefore, is maintained according to what is vagina presenting. And, finally, to the concept of investments, to Chapter VI, since 2010, which we had 7_million assumptions, what we have done is, every year, to make the smallest investments in a building like this, of the Parliament of Catalonia, which is a listed building and therefore needs constant investment, but obviously we do it with the resources that we have at this time, that are scarce. Well, this is the general comment respecting Parliament's premise. I repeat that it has already been approved for the enlarged Bureau and for the Bureau; it is balanced in these 53,650,703_euros, and we ask the chamber that this draft budget therefore count with the approval of Parliament. We are also close to making approval of the Presupposition Project for statutory entities. It is the progress that, like every year, both at the table and at the enlarged table, there has been a debate as to whether this procedure should be carried out by the Parliament. As you know, the statutory bodies, like the Parliament, have autonomy and independence in their management and, therefore, the Parliament could hardly go into prioritizing criteria of these three in the statutes, different from those proposed by the same institution. Yes, it is true that, precisely for the approval of their own laws, we are close to Parliament making this view, rather than an approval. It's a little surreal, we've commented on it several times at the table and at the enlarged table. Since the debate that we have made specifically to the Bureau, since the debate that we have made to the Bureau, we have told them that any initiative that the parliamentary groups make, or the accompanying law or any single reading initiative to modify some aspect respects the control or approval of the assumptions of the entities that I will now comment on – the Union of Accounts, the Greuges Union and the Council of State Guarantees – any proposed modification that will lead us to make differently this procedure that we are now doing, therefore, will be welcome and, therefore, even we suggest that they do so in the future. Well, the statutory guarantee board practically has no variation, it's kept at 3,281,000_euros. They know that the Board of State Guarantees basically corresponds to all Chapter I games, and have a decrease compared to the 2015 assumption of 0.22_per_cent. The Catalonian Union of Accounts has a balance of 10,889,712_euros. This supposes a low respect to the presupposition of 2015 of 2.09_per_cent, which is motivated basically because the transfer of its of the Union of Accounts will reduce, and very much, the cost of the logger that until now was paid in the current installations here, to the Olympic Port of Barcelona. And finally, to the Greuges union the assumption is balanced to 6,281,093 euros. This means an increase of €341,000_respects the 2015 assumption, with a 5.76_per_cent increase. And the two chapters that the same memory of the Greuges union tells us that they have increased are Chapter I, with a 5.76_per_cent, and Chapter II, of current expenditure, which increases by almost 10_per_cent. These variations are justified in the same memory of the Greuges union, I will not enter it; in any case, it is the same union that justifies these increments, and for our part, therefore, we respect their autonomy at the time of prioritizing expenditure. Yes, I have to say that in the context of the expenditure, both the Greuges Union and the Union of Accounts, such as the Council of State Guarantees in these later years have also made an effort to optimise, contain, and, therefore, it is fair to say today, that we propose this approval of their draft assumptions. Nothing more, and at your disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.111.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Once the speech is over, we shall now take the first vote, the vote on the budget. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Joan Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.112.0	For acclaims, for our vote to end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.113.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.114.0	Yeah? Can you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.115.0	...you make an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.116.0	Well, we would like to make some considerations in accordance with the proposed assumptions. It is an appreciation that we have made repeatedly since we have representation in this chamber. One is that the contribution made by parliamentary groups, for us, is excessive and is not justified either by the advice or by parliamentary officials, apart from the Member, who have all the Members. For us, too, there is little clarity and little transparency in the two sections in which I am elected: one according to the self and the other according to the diets. And the fact that the Law of the IRPF, as Mr. Corominas said in a previous debate, makes exceptions to parliamentary chambers, for us, more than a reason, is a privilege that we think we can change. And the third question would be that we would like to reiterate the will to move forward, both in Parliament and in bodies and in the rest of the public administration, in the will to fix maximum and other minimum wages or payments managed by the Administration, so that we homogenize all high and direct salaries, that in the application of fair wage demands, such as extraordinary payments and increases, over-enrich wage differences. We would like these considerations to be placed in the will of the consensus, along with magical positions, but also in the framework of a willingness to rationalise expenditure and bring this Parliament closer to the peers of this institution, which, despite the presuppositionary control maintained by the Deputy Corominas, we believe... does not justify. Some Member, in a previous debate of these assumptions, also in this Parliament, said: "When it comes to pedagogy, democracy needs to invest money in it. Home, yes; but it is also necessary to do pedagogy of the coherence of the carrec that we occupy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.117.0	Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We will vote on Parliament's presupposition, because, according to the request of the parliamentary groups, we will vote on the various presuppositions separately, eh? Therefore, we will now vote on Parliament's premise. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A moment – a moment – quiet, a moment. Now, now we can vote; I didn't have the screen. Voting begins. Parliament's assumption for the year 2017_has been approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then, as I have announced, we will vote separately, let's say, the other entities. In the first place, we will vote for the presupposition of the State Guarantee Board. The vote begins. The Presupposition of the Council of State Guarantees was approved by 121 votes in favour, against and nine abstentions. Next, we will vote on the presupposition of the Greuges Synod. The vote begins. The presupposition of the Mayor of Greuges was approved by 111 votes to 10, with 9 abstentions. Next, we vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, you can do it later, Alejandro, that we need a vote. Does that sound good to you, Congressman? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] He forgives – he forgives –, Mr. MP, you're right – he forgives. He apologizes to her publicly. Next, we will vote on the assumption of the Union of Accounts. The vote begins. The Presupposition of the Union of Accounts was approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. In any case, now, honourable Member, we can have the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.118.0	Thank you, President. There's no red for the intimacy we have with you and me. [[relays]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, in a context of crisis and content, what we find ourselves in the bodies that we voted for is content in Parliament, if we see the historical, as explained; content in the Council of Guarantees Statutes, has been explained very well; it is clear, even so, in the Union of Accounts and, in change, in the case of the Syndicate of Greuges we find a 5.76_per_cent increase, which should not be an extraordinary thing if it were not because, in our opinion, it is mass based on staff and also on a concept, to say the least, "expansion of the competences of this Syndicate of Greuges that we do not share in absolute, and that is why we voted separately and voted negatively on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Report on the Complimentary Presupposition of Expenditures of the Parliament of Catalonia of 2015]] [[237-00001/11]] Next, we will move on to the agenda, which is: presentation and vote of the Report on the compliment of the Catalonian Parliament's spending assumption of the year 2015. The Bureau recommended the presentation of the report to the deputy intervener, Mr Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.120.0	Thank you, President. Well, I appear today, as the president has said, as an intervener and on behalf of the other two interveners – the deputy Espinosa and the deputy Terrades – to set up, to inform them, to give account, in the end, of the report on the compliment of the assumption of expenses of this chamber of the year 2015. And in this sense, let me begin by thanking the work done by the Oedory of Accounts with this report. The total initial budget approved for 2015 was EUR 51,944,576, and the total budget defined was EUR 58,750,853.79. The difference, therefore, is 6,806,277 euros. This differential corresponds to credit changes that were later hard to complete during the exercise. Credit changes that, in essence, were financed with the credit romant came from the 2014 financial year. These 58,750,853_EUR total defined budget was distributed as follows: in Chapter 1, it is said, "Staff costs, with 28,377,037_EUR; it is said, a 48_percent of the total. In Chapter 2, « Current benefits and services, 12,575,706_euros; that is, 21_percent. Chapter 4, « Current transfers, 16,122,898_euros; a 27_per_cent, which, as the Vice-President of the Parliament has said, are basically intended for transfers to parliamentary groups and also to finance, as the law says, popular legislative initiatives. Chapter 6, "Real investments, was of 1,705,211_euros, that is 2,90_per_cent, which basically, basically, was allocated to the building and to the acquisition of programs to work; and finally, in Chapter 8, "Variation of financial assets, it was allocated 10,000_euros, that is to say, 0.017_per_cent of the total budget. Finally, from the execution of this premise we can prove that an 88.33_per_cent has been executed. That is to say, it was finally executed an 88,33_percent of what was initially assumed and, therefore, it was due a romant of credit in position corresponding to 6,855,727,46_euros, which represents an 11,67_percent of the total of the 2015 budget; romant that, above all, comes from expenses not executed in Chapters 1 and 2, which, as we have seen, for another band, are the chapters with the thickest, with the most import of the 2015 budget. And finally, it should be noted that 87,33_percent of the recognised bonds have already been paid and, therefore, this percentage remains to be done with the payments. This is, quite frankly, the 2015 expenditure report which, as the President has said, has already been put to the enlarged Bureau of Parliament and, obviously, we are calling for approval of this report on the implementation of the 2015 expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. We shall proceed to the vote. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word? [[Benet Salellas and Vilar intervenes without using the microphone.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.122.0	Thank you, President. And with much patent, making our own the arguments that Congressman Garriga has already put forward before, which were also extended to the issue of Parliament's premise. But we would ask, let us say, to take advantage of this turn of intervention, and to the vote to what we now submeter that, in view of these assumptions, which probably will be approved, even though we will not abstain, glamorous of the transparency that the Law of Transparency also demands of the Parliament of Catalonia. At these times, the website of the Catalan Parliament does not fill in with the Law of Transparency, not with regard to the salaries of Members and Members, which is obviously, but with regard to the rest of the Chamber's expenses, the rest of the staff expenses and the rest of the sub-assemblies with regard to the other staff and, therefore, we would ask that, in compliment of this Law of Transparency, which we have given ourselves, in view of this assumption that we will approve, this Law of Transparency is satisfied, so that the citizens can access and lastly the control functions that we have given them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.123.0	Let's take a note. It is the will of this Table to comply with the Law of Transparency. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Anyway, if it looks like it, and it has any objection, this vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you can't do that out of absence, because there's... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. Anyway, we'll vote, huh? [[Pause.]] If it seems to them, therefore, we will now vote on the Report on the Complimentary Expenditure Presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia. Call it a vote, yeah. Yeah, they're missing... [[Long break.]] We will vote on the 2015 Report on the Complimentary Presupposition of Expenditures of the Parliament of Catalonia. The vote begins. The report on the compliment of the 2015 Catalonian Parliament's expenditure assumption was approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. [[Proposal for a law on the legal reparation of the victims of the Francoism (debate of totality)]] [[202-00029/11]] The next item is the debate on the proposal for a legal remedy for victims of the franchise. And before starting this item on the agenda, allow me to welcome the President and members of the Dignity Commission, the President and all members of the memorialist entities, the victims of Francoism and the relatives of the victims of Francoism. It's an honor to be with us today. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, this legislative initiative is presented by the parliamentary groups which are the authors of the bill. In the first place, on behalf of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, has the word Ms Montserrat Palau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.124.0	Thank you, President. I would like to do, in the first place and on behalf of our group, Together for the Yes, as the President has done, a re-examination of the task that the Commission of the Dignity, which is the driving force behind this proposal of the law that we are presenting today, has had and has done. Also, the gratitude for his presence to the victims and relatives of victims of the Councils summarising today's Francoism with us, members of different associations, and also family members of President Companies, Manuel Carrasco and Formiguera, Lluís Serra and Giribert, Antoni Bergós or Salvador Puig and Antich, among many others, and to the numerous joints that have approved to support this initiative. A rostrum, as you see, to vessar; a representation of so many people, of thousands and drawings of thousands of people who went through unfair and illegal processes to be democrats. As, for example, Dr. Rafael Battestini Galup, director of the Hospital de Santa Tecla, Tarragona, who saved many people persecuted during the war. One of these people, established by the dictatorship, denounced him and accused him in an emergency council of having healed wounded by the bandol reig, one of the parties that sentenced him to death. In the archive of oral memoir on the Second Republic, the war and dictatorship, created at the University of Rovira and Virgili for Dr. Maria Antònia Ferrer as early as 1983, there is the report of a witness who explains how Dr. Battestini, on the way he carried them from the prison to the Mount of Olives, the place of mass executions in Tarragona, like the Camp de la Bota in Barcelona..., Dr. Battestini was dedicated during his journey to comforting a minyoneta, a minyona, a young girl, younger, also sentenced. Allow me to transcribe and read you three lines of this witness, which make us very pale to the horror. The witness said: "They take them in a way and comfort them. It was a thing of wonder, of why, something that you scratch. I've been a while since I slept, of course. When they say there'd be killing tomorrow, you don't sleep anymore. You feel in the morning the cries of the people, of the family or what it was. The meth and the young, two of the thousands of victims executed, such as President Lluís Companys, to more than many other victims suffering from exile, who were entrepreneurs or debugged and expelled from their place of work, and on whom still weighs the condemnation of illegal councils that violated all the procedural guarantees, violated the laws of the Second Republic and the full powers of the Statute of Catalonia of 1932. This proposal of law, therefore, will allow the Parliament of Catalonia, allow us, overcome a democratic deficit and assume the historical responsibility to repair the victims of the summary councils of the Franco dictatorship. We present this proposal to declare the nullity of the Councils summarizing the franchise and their feelings and doing so by memory, by justice, by dignity and by democracy. This also by legality, as stated in Article 54 of our Statute or as marked by different articles of the Law of Spanish Historical Memory, 52 of 2007, which is not complete. And that's what we're talking about, a bleak and insufficient law. Memory is an act of will, but so is oblivion. The systemic oblivion of memory, of reparation; the oblivion of all requirements, plural and repeated – the later, of July 2014 – of the United Nations because the Spanish State restores the mechanisms to make effective the nullity of the sentences dictated in violation of the fundamental principles of the right and of the procedures established during the Civil War and the Francoism. The State systematically incompletes international law and the principles of universal justice. And don't talk to us about amnesty or transitions, because crimes against humanity never prescribe. We present, therefore, this proposal for legality and to complete the democratic mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia. And in democracy we cannot contemplate a constitutional court suspending or challenging a law that would be equivalent to giving validity to the judgments of the summary councils. But we are not allowed to, we are quite clear that Catalonia is free and sovereign that we want – if not, from our group, Together for the Yes – it will have as one of its pillars memory and justice. We also present this proposal because we do not want to be accomplices to the banalization of evil, but rather we choose to repair a few victims accused of all the contrary: to be guilty. Victims, per month, of arbitrary and authoritarian justice. And we present it by dignity, for which means the word "dignity" as to respect and honor. Honor, record and reparation to all and each of the victims, from the most incredulous years, especially the period of the blau terror, from 39 to 45, to the last, like Salvador Puig Antich and Heinz Ches on March 2, 1974, and Juan Paredes Manot, Txiki, on September 27, 1975. We have a debt hanging with all the people who fought and with all the victims of the Franco dictatorship. We will not have a complete democracy without this ethic of the right and obligation to restore the dignity and memory of all those people who gave their lives for democratic ideals. She can't be democrat without being anti-Franchist. In short, we present this proposal of law to restore the dignity from which he paid the highest possible price to defend democratic values, and we also present it to restore our own dignity, our dignity as free persons and our collective dignity as at birth. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.125.0	Next, has the word Mr Joan Josep Nuet, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.126.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. This is one of the days when it's really worth being a member of the Catalan Parliament. I would also like to thank, on behalf of my parliamentary group, your presence to all those who are here, fighting and fighting against Francoists, reprisals, reprisals, victims and friends of victims. This is your day. The Joan passed the Ebre years ago. That day he especially remembers three things: it was hot, that bombs – the bombs of the Feixists– and, above all, he remembers the por, the why a fool of these years can hold to the middle of the battle. He was from the JSU... well, he was from the pioneers, because he was so young that they didn't let him or even take the JSU's notebook, but there he was, he was at war. He'll be defeated again. He always remembers that he didn't get to Gandesa, that they tried, but that it wasn't possible. Then, seven years at the concentration camps, at the labor camps: the chastisement, the torture... And he got very lucky, drove a truck and got out pretty well. Montserrat was waiting for him at home. Montserrat, which also remembers those years, above all remembers the desire. How much you're gonna get through! Then they got married and the family pulled forward. He still spent many years going to the circle of the lords, where there was his from the Falang, to pass accounts with the botxins. His brother, Maties, was political commissioners. He was in front of everyone, pulling tricks. Then, when he was taken, he was sentenced to three death sentences, as if a man could be killed three times. He's gonna be lucky. We still don't know why they didn't kill him. He went home, where the Assumption was expecting him. The Assumption was an extraordinary woman, she always said to the Feixistes for her name: « Feixistes. They are stories of men and women who suffered from Franco's repression, who have made us as we are and who are a glorious part of the history of this country. The Francoism was not an authoritarian rule, as we want to create the Academy of History. The franchise was a fascist and totalitarian regime, it was a regime that destroyed people. And it's good to remember all this, because all these men, the dozens of thousands of men and women who suffered the most twenty thousand judgments of Francoism in Catalonia were not criminals: they were fighters for freedom; they were revolutionaries, anarchists, communists, Catalanists; they were people who fought for their land, for their family, for their ideas. Many of them died and others passed very badly the years of the franchise, but they were not criminals. When we search the archives we still find their judgments and everything they've been told. It is perhaps time that, for the first time, in the history of Spain, a democratic institution said so and said that those courts were a farce, because so far no one has said so in this country. And today we are lucky to be part of a parliament that he will say for the first time. They fought, they fought a lot. They could never believe that the amnesty law, for which they fought so much, would become a final point law – never. They, who fought so hard, knew that Catalonia had various experiences. Here there was also a left-wing government that, for the first time, put on the map the struggle for the historical memory of this country in an institutionally decided form. They knew that the Law of Historical Memory, which was approved in 2007, was already the law that they promised to annul the Francoist courts, but that it did not happen and was not done, and at that time it lacked much courage. They are still waiting for this moment, an important moment. They also connected with nine generations, from a Catalonia that continued to struggle, remembering those who fought at war and the first years of Francoism. General wanderings by force, of Aiscondel, the struggle of the women of Iberian Motor, which were closed to the church of Sant Andreu de Palomar and which found chaplains who helped them, chaplains who spoke to them of Catalonia in another way as did the Catholic hierarchy of the moment, which always justified the crimes of Francoism. They're waiting. But maybe it's time, maybe it's your time, companies and companies, comrades, maybe it's your time today. So, yeah, I'm one of the best things this country's ever given. The anti-faecal generation, the anti-faecal generation, the ones that today paint white hair, you're here with us, and we're with you. Yeah, I'm from the best he's ever given this land. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.127.0	The words "Mrs. Mireia Boya", in representation of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.128.0	Good morning, everyone, and benvengudi. Seventy thousand and three hundred and thirty persons retaliated, 3,358 executed, 3,341 omes and 17 hemnes. Aguest ei eth chastig de Franco a Catalonha between 1936 and 1975, chastig ath cau higer, logics, was devoid of rights and freedoms, it was torture, it was persecution, eth terror and it was won. And it's been forty-one years since the death of the dictator, and then he stopped talking about historical reparation, not justice. Lei deth final point, silence pact in bunker deth 78, makeup and debrembe. Deaf aids to the family members' petitions, which his steel andmos accompany. Silence, amnesia, lobotomy. « Can't we skip our laws – does it sound to you? Theirs, girls to measure, to turn the counters into political prisoners, object of impresonation, labor camps, concentration camps, submissive to summary judgments or forced to exile. The wounds are wide open, and we will not forget neither the palsies, nor the arbitrary denunciations, nor the special invisibility, as always, towards the women, with some things like visions, hair carvings, rapes, public displays of submission to a fetishist regime that lasted a long time. Legalize impunity with your laws, thus justifying the cover-up of barbarism and persecution: "We cannot skip our laws. And so still justify today that this country cannot exercise its right to self-determination: "We cannot jump into the laws. So, today we disobey them. We disobey them, condemn them, bury them. The time has come to assume the historic responsibility of this Parliament before the victims of summary proceedings, judicial proceedings that violated the fundamental principles of the law. We are aware that we will repair procedural abuses, we will never be able to repair humans and personnel, but what we are doing today and what we want to do is repair the dignity and honorability of all those who have been unjustly tried and sentenced, some coldly murdered. And we're ashamed, we're ashamed a lot, seeing that whoever did it will never do it. And we do it because the people of Catalonia are going to rise to do it, and we do it because it's our duty, in short. We do this because, like all your reprisals and family members, we can no longer bear it in our consciences. Particular patience and collection, socialization of injustice, collection of dignity, deinstitutionalization of dismemberment. Seventy-eight thousand three hundred thirty-one tried and 3,358 executed, innocent. And I can't remind them all, but some, starting with the 17 anonymities executed, invisible, the essentials, the guard, the women. Like the Carme Claramunt, of the Badalon movement obrer, the first woman tossed 39 to the Camp de la Bota ; her last letter said: "Dear aunt. The judge has come and ordered the death penalty, and he has told me that it had been decreed by the very general, and this morning, at five o'clock, I will be shot. You already know they're killing an innocent woman. Or like the Neus Bouza, worker of Poblenou, affiliated to the CNT, Republican militia at the rear. Or the Maria Martí Iglesias, Can Cantanclu, Cervia de les Garrigues, which is the only Lleidatana that was screwed, executed, of the CNT-FAI. Or like the Ines, Inés Giménez, the last of the women in the Boot Camp, inferring Mataró and accused of spying; a sick accused of spying. Or the last words of Ramon Jacas Fuster, in Xerapi, of the Union of Rabassaires of Ribes, to his son Anton, who is here today; when he visited the prison to take a look, he said to him: "Do not believe anyone, I have not done anything wrong. Or in Lluís Companies, the only president democratically elected in Europe, plunged by a fascist regime. That's dear brother Quim, the new one is a squiet: sentenced to death with the beginning of the letter of Salvador Puig Antich, militant of the MIL, who wrote to his brother when he knew that he was condemned to die in the garrot. Or memories of the Tomasa Cuevas, the Small, the PSUC, detained and saved tortured by the Germans Antonio and Vicente Juan Creix, to enter the prison of women of the Corts, the 45. And we could go on. Seventy-eight thousand three hundred thirty-one processed and 3,358 executed. I l'ultim d'ells, the Txiki, assassinated Cerdanyola on 27 September 75: "Through this writing I want to make known, once again, the oppression suffered by the Basque people and all the peoples of Spain under the current Franco regime. It is inconceivable that a handful of unscrupulous men play with the lives of an entire people through their repressive forces and their courts, simply by fighting for freedom. It is the people and the solidarity of all the peoples of the world who say the last word. Seventy-eight thousand three hundred thirty-one processed and 3,358 executed. For them and for them, today we are sovereigns and canceling the war councils and summarizing them; it is all about injustice. And that the politicized Spanish justice comes to resort against this act of rupture in a state that hides the murderers when the Argentine justice calls them to declare; that comes. That it's portrait and that it shows what it really is. Suspend us and cancel as many times as you want. We'll tell you that the memory and repair of victims can't wait any longer, that they can't be suspended and that in the Catalan Republic the cover-up of French crimes doesn't have a place or a place. We'll tell her that her legality isn't ours and that we get back what they stole from us, the Republican. Corrin, they run to the Constitutional Court. Quickly, vagina to finish this session. I run to Europe, if they want to, to say that they do not, that they do not want to cancel the sensations of fascism, that they want to continue humiliating their victims. I run to tell them to fill their mouths with democracy as they seize the crimes of a dictatorship. Corrin, vagina; vagina and no return. [[Give me the applause.]] Today we cancel them – today we cancel them – but we have the view in a republic that judges the perpetrators, the murderers, because there is no annulment without justice. You've cancelled them, but you need to continue the process of identifying the common pits, to open them, to explain what they are and why there are people buried there, why they exist, so that the relatives find those that fascism has made disappear. Today we cancel them to give a step closer to this process constitute the republic we want. Today, to the grandchildren and daughters of whom they lived and suffered the black night of the Francoism, we give them a tribute to all of them and we betray ourselves over the imposing legality of the Faixist. With this sovereign law we pose the point and end of impunity. Today our anonymous heroes and heroes, our maquises and our supporters, will have the full recognition they deserve. And it's thanks to all those who fought, who fought there, who never failed and who were soon, tortured and murdered that today we can say that we are a little more free. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.129.0	We shall now proceed to the turn of speeches to determine the position of the rest of the parliamentary groups. In the first place, has the word Mr. José María Espejo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.130.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... and welcome all the family members of the reprisals for the Franco dictatorship, who are here listening to this debate. This debate, which is about a proposal for a law that wants to nullify those judgments held by the Franco dictatorship, is part of the general debate concerning something very important for this country – something very important for this country – which is the historical memory derived from the Spanish Civil War and from that dictatorial regime that held power in Spain for the next forty years after its completion, suppressing the political freedoms of all Spaniards and establishing a repressive regime, which has been the victim of the families of many of the people who are here and the families of many of the Members who are here, of absolutely all the political forces who are here today. Political freedoms that did not recover until the adoption, in 1978, of the Spanish Constitution, with its lights and shadows, but which regained political freedoms for all Spaniards and which was the result of consensus. I insist: with its lights and with its shadows and with its many things that surely have to be improved. All the groups in this chamber condemn, without compromise, the Franco regime, the Franco dictatorship and all its consequences, as is the subsequent repression, which, as I say, suffered family members of all of us – of all of us – those who are on this side and those who are on this side of the Chamber. [[the timer does not set both sides]] - No, no, no, Law 52/2007 tried to respond to the demands that many people, relatives of reprisals by that Franco dictatorship, totalitarian, yes..., but there are still aspects that have undoubtedly not been properly resolved by that law, according to the fact that these demands for nullity of the processes carried out under rules dictated during that Franco regime remain. It must be said that this historical memory law already declares the illegitimate and radically unjust character of all convictions produced for political reasons during the war and dictatorship. It also declares the illegitimacy of the political courts set up for repressive purposes. But what we are now debating is the nullity – nullity – of the judgments that have been carried out, declaring it by law. And it is a very legitimate debate, because any trial conducted without due process and in violation of human rights, as these trials were, is void. And we agree that they should be annulled, we agree that the trials that have been conducted without guarantees and with a violation of human rights should be annulled. As far as the substance is concerned, there does not seem to be an excessive discrepancy as there has not been a single amendment to the whole – nor a single amendment to the whole – by any group in this chamber to that proposal for a law. However, from a technical point of view, it has to be recognised that it is proposed better, and I am grateful to the Socialist Group, which recognizes and pursues exactly the same purpose, and not just that, but goes beyond it, and it is proposed and we will discuss it this afternoon, that this one. It is better thought than from a technical point of view, and I, I insist, recognize it and thank it to the Socialist Party. And this is a question that is not less – it is a question that is not less – because, if we want to give effect to such a declaration, we all know that we have to do what, I think, is right. And this has to be done in the way that the Socialist Party has done – and that progress is already being made that we will support the Socialist Party's proposal – which, as I say, asks, essentially, the same thing, and some more things than this proposed law is left on the way. Therefore, the proposal contains a legitimate claim: the annulment of the Francoist judgments, produced or carried out through Francoist repression, with which we agree, I insist, and which must be discussed. But technically and legally it is, I believe, ill-conceived and, nevertheless, it is to be thanked that the SGP initiative allows the processing to be conducted in order to achieve exactly the same objective. Because so important is the claim, which we share, to annul unjust trials against human rights and arising from the repression of a totalitarian dictatorship, as it can be carried out. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.132.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, I want to begin my intervention by giving a very special greeting to the victims of Francoism and family members of the victims of Francoism who accompany us today from the public or who may be following this debate by any of the means offered by Parliament, and also to the entities and associations that have been for many years promoting the recovery of the historical memory of the Civil War and the dictatorship, often encountering many difficulties. He sang, and still sings, Raimon in one of his best known songs a verse he says: "Who will rescue us from so many years of misinformation and dismemberment? It is a question that perhaps at the time of writing the song could not be answered, but that I should have found it, and found it only partly in the recovery of democratic institutions, not only in Catalonia, but in Spain. It is a question that is not yet answered, and good proof is not the same public forum of this Parliament, the expectation that there is around initiatives like this, yet, in 2016, that they are pursuing a very concrete aspect, which is that of the annulment of certain decisions of summary judgments, of resolutions dictated by criminal and administrative bodies during the Civil War and the dictatorship, which treats, not only to make an act of disintegration, but also an authentic reparation; a vindication, in the background, of the dignity of the victims, and an attempt to place them in the center of the debate on the recovery of the historical memory of our country. But it is not the only aspect of recovering the historical memory, the democratic memory that needs to be addressed. We did this today because there is a proposal from the law, which has signed three groups, which invites us to respect one of these aspects. And, as has already been mentioned by the Member of Parliament for Ciutadans, there is another proposal, which will be debated after the midday break, which seeks to address this and another aspect of the memory of the people who were deported to the Nazi concentration camps between 33 and 45. But there are many other aspects, some of which have to do with areas of State competence and others which have to do with areas of competition which are strictly Catalan. There are some adventures, and we salute them, in the matter of the public DNA bank, which should serve to satisfy some of the historical claims of the relatives of disappeared persons during the Civil War and Francoism, and also of the relatives affected by cases of abduction of babies during the Francoism and well into democracy. But there are still demands that should surely lead us to a reform of the Catalan Seas Law, which in its practical application has left much to be desired, as much as the Law has done, in the context of the State, 52/2007, respects the actual opening of these Seas and the recovery of so many people who today still play on the roads and carts of our country. Truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition is the mantra we will repeat one time and another. It's absolutely necessary. A democracy cannot be used in memory or oblivion; it must remember all that we have been able to do to each other, all the pain we have been able to do to each other, and it must also remember the responsibilities of the public powers that existed at that time, in a policy of systematic persecution of the political dissident, of the one who, because of his ideology, his beliefs, his conscience, in the background, was persecuted. Because the military rise of a fascist sign – and Carlist in some regions of Spain – was very cruel from the iniciators. There is no good proof of repression in the areas that immediately fell under the power of the revolts: the repression in Galicia; the repression in Castella la Vella, at that time; the repression in the areas of Extremadura, which immediately became occupied by the revolts, or the areas of Andalusia, which immediately became occupied by the revolts..., it was a very harsh, very rapid repression. It may be recalled, for example, that the braus plaza of Badajoz has been eroded; it may be remembered that there are personalities like Blas Infante, that have been ousted and sentenced to death by a court of political responsibility, that have been ousted by the former mayor of Seville and that have been ousted by the socialist deputy Manuel Barrios ; it may be recalled that Alfredo Espinosa, of the Republican Union, Health Councillor of the Government Aguirre, the only one of the councillors of the Government Aguirre who was ousted. But I must remember so many people who are not so familiar – I refuse to say anonymously, because they were not so familiar, known, friends and companions – so many people who were not so familiar that they suffered the repression of fascism, Francoism, until the end of their days; because he said that it began in a bloody way and did not cease to be a bloody, bloody and murderous dictatorship until the end of their days. Mirin, in the background to the proposal that today is subject to the consideration of the chamber, is a report by the special rapporteur of the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations, on the promotion of truth, justice, repression and guarantees of non-repetition; a report of July 22, 2014, which tells us that the efforts to respond to the arrivals of the Civil War and the dictatorship have characterized Spain for its fragmentation. With regard to the debate before us today, the Special Rapporteur welcomes the provisions of Law 52/2007, which recognize and declare the radically unfair character and the illegitimacy of convictions and sanctions imposed for political and ideological reasons or creations by special courts during the Civil War and by any court or criminal body or body administered during the dictatorship. The rapporteur also recalls that the law provides that victims of these injustices may request the issuance of declarations of reparation and personal recognition. These provisions, however, do not preclude the Special Rapporteur from interlocking his recommendations with the establishment of appropriate mechanisms to make effective the nullity of judgments in violation of the fundamental principles of law and procedures established during the Civil War and Francoism. And it is certain that the report of 3 November 2004 of the Advocate General of the State on the possible revision or declaration of nullity of the reasoned resolutions identified some conceptual difficulties to proceed with it; this was in this report. But it is not less certain that the same report also identified two alternative formulas that could lead to the result that is close. Therefore, we believe that it is time to recover, among others, these two lives suggested by the report of the Attorney General of the State or others to which it may arrive. We share the purpose of today's proposal of the three groups that have started this debate. Let us think, yes, that the way in which it is laid will surely encounter some difficulty from the point of view of competition, but it seems to us that it is very appropriate that this chamber should begin..., as it will today, because, as it has also been said, there is no question of totality, and therefore it will not be necessary to vote in a debate on totality, but it will go immediately to the parliamentary process, it is very important that this chamber should begin this debate that you allow to advance with this objective. We, as you said, think that there may be this technical difficulty and it seems to us that, for its own purpose..., in Article 1 of the proposal, it speaks of declaring null and void legal effects all the war councils summarising and the correspondents instructed for political reasons in Catalonia, it seems to us that, for this purpose, it remains short of the point of view of its abyss, because political causes against Catalans and Catalans were also instructed outside the territory of Catalonia and why we... our ambition is to complete all the recommendations of the report of the Special Rapporteur, also respecting all those judicial acts summarising that have been celebrated in the territory of Spain. And we believe that only in this way is complete satisfaction given to the claims of so many family members of the victims of the Francoism, and of the victims of the Francoism who fortunately still accompany us today. And that is why we have put forward the proposal that will come after the middle break, in which we have taken advantage, as I said, to add a series of claims that we also believe very legitimate and very fair around the memory of people deported to the Nazi concentration camps. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Fernández Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. [[Someone said, "Fernando.]] Fernando.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.134.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, victims and relatives of victims of the dictatorship... Ladies and gentlemen: "It is time to leave the past behind. The time has come for us to look together towards the future, a future of hope. These words, ladies and gentlemen, could have been spoken by Adolfo Suárez, but they are not his; they could have been spoken by Santiago Carrillo, but neither do they belong to him; with these words he concluded an anthological speech at Havana Barack Obama last March. To many of us this path of reconciliation filled us with joy; I suppose you too, unless some of you are more Castro's, which I would not miss either. He immediately reminded me of the tone of our Transition. Obama encouraged reconciliation, to believe in one another, to understanding, to know how to listen and to forgiveness. That, exactly what Barack Obama was asking for in Cuba, is what we did in Spain during the transition. [[Widow's remorse.]] If we take the splendid speech of the American president we find a deep look that recognizes and goes through the darkness of the past, but above all underlines the meeting points and a shared route in the future. Time has clouded the memory of the Transition a little. I had not been born, like many of us, and so I want to go back to the sources, not to make mythical memory, to make historical memory. Let me refer, for example, to the speech delivered by Marcelino Camacho in the Courts on the occasion of the Amnesty Act, this law which here is always regarded as the source of all evils and impunity. The Communist spokesman claimed that they would vote with honor on the text, and even more, claimed paternity on the part of the PCE and the PSUC. Camacho stated that the Amnesty Act was fully consistent and in line with the reconciliation policy of the Communist Party since the year 56. And let me read it textually, because it impresses a little. Marcelino Camacho said: "We considered that the key part of this policy of national reconciliation had to be amnesty. How could we reconcile those who had been killing each other if we did not erase that past once and for all? Words of Marcelino Camacho. You can now tell me that everything was a paripé, that it was a minor evil necessary, that the constituents were shortsighted, but the words of the spokesman of the Communist Party have the tersura and vibration of sincerity. Camacho made it very clear that it was not a tactical movement, but rather a strategy sought for more than twenty years. He said: "We Communists, who have so many wounds, who have suffered so much, have buried our grudges. We are determined to move forward on that path of freedom and peace. I ask you, Members of Parliament, and I also ask myself: do we know better than Carrillo what the Civil War was? Is it that we are more authentic or have more gallons than Marcelino Camacho, than Solé Tura, than Roca or Suárez, to understand and explain what that transitional period was? Paul Iglesias said the other day that there are some who believe that history begins with them. And you're absolutely right. Sometimes we seem, ladies and gentlemen, to be political teenagers, staring at our parents all day long who have been tricked, fooled, left behind a scam as a legacy. Maybe we look like those kids with teenage looks who give themselves grandeur and ridicule their elders without understanding maybe the turkey is doing it. Are we not the ones who are left with myopia? Have we not settled in such a climate of confrontation that we are unable to appreciate the power of dialogue and encounter? Have we not become blinded by prejudice and are no longer able to appreciate that, for the first time in two centuries, the Spaniards stopped shooting at us and horning at us to look together into the future? Miops, locked in our own maze of claims of self-consumption and self-conviction. The media and political nationalist apparatus has been saying that here the first reparations of the Civil War will be approved. Ladies and gentlemen – and I will stop this afternoon – I remind you that the amnesty law itself provided for various reparations; I remind you that these reparations would be developed much later, covering more and more areas of the victims. And look what I'm telling you. I do not regret that you want to open the past and cancel judgments that are already, in fact, out of our legal order, expelled from our legal order. I understand, in fact, the willingness to repair, the willingness to secure better wounds that they can still suppress. I understand, indeed, the pain of the victims and their will for better repair. But what I don't understand is the funny speech some people are making. [[Widow's remorse.]] What I don't understand is the fact that they're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.135.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.136.0	What I do not understand is, on the part of some political parties, the denial of historical processes in which they actively participated, and which now deny them with more fury than the anti-systems themselves. I don't understand this willingness to look at the past with rage and put all the fantasies back together, because, friends, of course there are many fantasies, of course! Of course there are a lot of nuts, of course the franchise deserves to condemn, and we've done it, and we'll do it again... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.137.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.138.0	Clearly, the dictatorship left a blood ring...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.139.0	I remind the public... I remind the public that you must refrain from commenting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.140.0	I refer, as before President Puigdemont, to the daily sessions of this Parliament. Clearly, the dictatorship... To see the condemnation we have made in this Parliament... clearly the dictatorship left a rule of blood and pain. Of course it's worth repairing. And it's done a lot in 40 years. I can't deny it. We're reinforcing our franchise conviction and our repair, but what's the limit? - Who's the limit? Let us remember that Catalonia has, and Spain, four civil wars. Do we cancel and open the four of us? No, ladies and gentlemen, I really believe, with the color of my hand, that the path of the future does not change to reopen trenches and resurrect fantasies. Think about how to repair better, think about how to honor the defenders of freedom, think about pedagogy of democracy and reconciliation, but don't want to nail the stakes of the confrontation again. And I don't say so much for this law, that it seems to us worthy of study. Some people are talking to us all day about the Constitution, because they were hoping, perhaps, for totality, and they are inviting us to do so, because they are willing, and they are saying: « Bring it to the Constitution. Listen, no one's spoken. Some diaries say: "A new confrontation is taking place with the central government. But who talked about this in the central government? If only you didn't speak. Let's go deeper into repairs. To me, the socialist deputy, Mr Ferran Pedret, has taught me one important thing many times: that in history many times the problem is not content, but recognition. And we can advance in this recognition, and so much! And that's why we want to be in this position. Can we better recognize the victims of the dictatorship? Can we state more clearly the illegitimacy of convictions? Do it. But what I regret is the way I understand, the intention I understand, the willingness to confront and propaganda you – you, not the victims, the deputies – are raising these issues. That's good for not making a farce. These courts have already been declared illegitimate. And they're rushing a little. He said before another spokesman– he said before another spokesman–: why not extend, for example, the sentence and the annulment to those courts that affect Catalans and were not declared in Catalonia? MPs and MPs, who passed it on to us do not blind us. We serve memory and retain humanity for the victims of the dictatorship, and also for President Companies, but we do not use company memory to achieve goals he never defended; we do not use his record to manipulate and charge against Spain. Do not forget that he declared Catalonia to be the capital of the Spanish Federal Republic. Thank you. [[Greetings and chililets.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, we respect all opinions. As no mention has been made, the Proposition of the Law on the Legal Reparation of the Victims of the Franchise continues its processing. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspected three-quarters of a half-and-a-half-minute session and resumed at three in the afternoon. She chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary-General in office and the late Miquel Lluís Palomares Amat.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.142.0	It's part of the session. [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a Law amending the Law of the State 52/2007 on historical memory, and other related standards (debate of totality)]] [[270-00004/11]] The next item is the debate on the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposal for a law amending the Law of the State 52/2007 on historical memory, and other related standards. And, before I proceed to this point, I greet the people who accompany us during..., when it comes to this law: many thanks for being here with us. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ferran Pedret has the word "signing" for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.143.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies..., and also thanks to the people who accompany us from the public gallery and to those who may be following this debate from any of the media offered by Parliament to do so. Today, as well as just before the midday break, we are talking about memory, historical memory, democratic memory, popular memory of this country. I urge you to allow 'but the intervention on this proposal made by the Socialist Group to the Parliament of Catalonia with a record to a recently disappeared socialist in Pau Nuet, who was the first democratic mayor of Valls. A person who learned from the letter to the village of Valls; who joined the Jewish Communist Youth, the youth organization of the Marxist Unity Party; who with them, as a militia, went to war; who suffered the effects of the events of May, and for this reason had to return to Valls; who took part in the withdrawal of a return to the regular army of the Republic; who was forced, among other things, to work for the occupation of the Nazis in France; who made various attempts to escape from this malaria, and for this reason was incorporated later than from others in the workers' battalions; who was forced to join forces for the occupation of the Nazis in the first place; who was made various attempts to escape from this, and who worked for the construction of Murls; who was forced to do so by the forces of the Israelis in the first place; who died from malaria, and who worked for the construction of Murls in the first place; who was forced to work for the occupation of the Israelis in the first place; who died from malaria, and who died from the formerly in the past. He..., with so many other companies and companies– Salvador Clop, Manel Alberich, Maria Manonelles, Josep Rovira or López Neighbor – are people we are talking about today. But my memory would be fragmentary – and therefore necessarily partial – if focused, only and exclusively, on those people with whom we have or have had a tighter bond. The memory of the struggle against Francoism and democratic resistance is a much larger memory, than it is of people with all kinds of beliefs, ideologies or simply options of life than for that reason, to make an option of life different from the dominant thinking in that regime, they were persecuted and repressed, and it was... – as it was sometimes said before, in the debate on a matter of time ago – they were from the very beginning of the Faixist era until the last days of the Francoist dictatorship, which was a particularly bloody dictatorship, which was very harshly suppressed by many indwellers of our territory, and when we can't help but remember, before the very days of the Francoist dictatorship, that it was a particularly bloody dictatorship, and that it was too harshly suppressed by many indwellers of our territory, and that, when we can't help but remember, the very people of the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past, the past. So many people who, I say, suffered persecution in their most diverse forms, putting their lives at risk, their physical integrity, their freedom: prison, exile, torture..., not far from here, to the Via Laietana, but also to the Gate of the Sun, in some buildings that are still there today and that should serve as a place to honor the memory of so many people who suffered the pain there. The initiative that we propose is to put an end to a debate that we have also had occasion to speak to it this morning, a debate on whether Law 52/2007, known as Law of Historical Memory, implied or not the definitive eradication of the judicial order of the procedures and sanctions dictated by administered and penal organs during the Civil War and the dictatorship. It's not irrelevant to this debate, absolutely. And I think that good proof of this is the tenacity and determination with which family members of victims and victims of franchises and associations and memorial entities have been pursuing an express declaration of the nullity of these proceedings and sanctions. In addition, it is not unreasonable to conclude that the Attorney General of the State, on April 2010, arrives in the sense that the literality of Law 52/2007_is to lead to the conclusion that these procedures and sanctions are non-existent and null and void, without the existence, at present, of any appearance of their legality or validity, of having been expelled from the legal order. Above this conclusion after reading the articles of Law 52/2007, which we have reproduced this morning, and which, therefore, I will not repeat now, but which refer to the declaration of injustice of these proceedings and sanctions and of the ill-lawfulness of the courts and of the criminal and administrative bodies which they issued. If this is the conclusion of the prosecution, but the debate remains, and therefore there are victims and relatives of victims and associations who believe that this has not been made clear, and if there are some recommendations, which we have also had occasion to debate in the morning, from the Special Rapporteur of the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations, in this July 2014 report, which recommends that there are ideas for proceeding with this declaration of nullity, it is necessary to note that there has been something that has not gone well and that there is therefore a debate that continues. If the prosecution's conclusion is that it can be deduced from the same law this nullity, this eradication of the legal order, but, in change, as I said, the debate remains, to do something else. And our proposal is to amend Law 52/2007 so that, following on from the articles on the injustice of proceedings and sanctions, on the lawfulness of the courts, criminal and administrative bodies, it is said that, as a result, these proceedings and sanctions must be considered radically. And so to avoid all doubt as to whether the law operates this eradication of the legal order of these hateful sanctions and these hateful resolutions. So what they want is to do it, technically, in the same way that these statements of injustice and legitimacy had been made on their day. And, therefore, from here on, with more than these personal recognition statements that the victims of these processes can get, there can also be a certificate of this nullity. But, more than that, what we have also wanted to introduce in the proposal we are presenting is a specific recognition of the responsibility of the French authorities, in conjunction with the authorities of the Nazi and Vichy regime, in the deportation of thousands and thousands of Spanish republicans, among them, many and many, citizens of Catalonia, who, obviously, have come from that connection, from those decisions, have gone to the horror of the Nazi concentration camps, among them, that of Mauthausen, but obviously not only. They think it's fair that there's this explicit recognition. This can be incorporated in an article in Law 52/2007, which makes various recognitions of similar naturalness compared to other collections or situations. We believe, therefore, that you are of justice, this recognition. But, in addition, we believe that we need to try to implement some repair mechanism for people who have been victims of it or for their heirs or descendants. Any repair is obviously insufficient; it is impossible to rescue anyone from the suffering of the Nazi concentration camps. But it seemed to us that the least that could be done was to equate the treatment of these people who were particularly affected by Franco's repression, in this case, delegated to one regime, if possible, still more involved in its way of inflicting pain on others... We thought, said, that it was important to try it, matching it with the people who were affected by the repression in the last years of the dictatorship. There is an article in Law 52/2007 that establishes certain compensations for people who have been victims of state terrorism or extreme right during the later years of the dictatorship and it seemed to us that it could be proven to equip these two situations. Without doubt, what we propose or what we propose in the morning does not exhaust, or much less, the multitude of views that there must be about that historical period and the attempt to conform with all of them a truth that we can give to establish historically. It is absolutely necessary, and before we say so too: truth, justice, reparation, guarantees of non-repetition... It is what is always called when we are talking about these issues. And, therefore, the establishment of a consensual truth is absolutely fundamental, it is something that until this moment has not been possible to establish in this country. If nsha gave, often, the argument that talking about memory policies, talking about memory was re-opening wounds, and I can't say that it's all the contrary– that it's all the contrary–, that wounds can't be closed if it's not seeking to establish the truth of facts, if it's not seeking to impose some terms of justice that satisfy, also, victims, and if it's not seeking to retrace that social fabric that in his day has sprang. And I think it's undeniable that our society today, much as we have advanced in many ways, still carries some of these wounded ones, still has some squeaky textures from the Civil War era and dictatorship. And we need to make more effort, as they have done in other countries... and as we should want to be at the forefront of this type of measurement, of memory policies. I celebrate, therefore, the initiations as well as those of the public DNA bank to locate the missing persons, to locate, also, those people who may have been victims of the substraction network of babies that began during the franchise and which lasted until democracy entered well. It also celebrates local initiatives such as the import of Stolpersteine in some municipalities of Catalonia. I don't think I'm wrong if I say Navàs was the first municipality to do it. Stolpersteine are plaques that recall the place of arrest and the place where a certain person deported to the concentration camps died. It could be done..., from the public policies that the Government of Catalonia can push, it could push some similar policy, because there were many people who were detained, walked, who were then interned in labor camps, in franchise concentration camps – which also did not exist. Some of them didn't even deserve the name of the camp, or perhaps the one who deserved more than anything because they were simply a demarcation in the open field where people had to be in the sun and serene. There could be plaques in the public works and infrastructures that were built with the help of forced labour, explaining how many people there were, explaining who, with names and surnames, died in the construction of these infrastructures and public works. They could do a lot of things. It could be better, as I said, the Law of Beings we have here in Catalonia, to facilitate its opening and the recovery of the bodies by the people who esteem themselves those people who are now buried in whatever way in common. All this and much more is what we have to do, because, as Saramago said: "We are the memory we have and the responsibility we assume. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. We will now proceed to the turn of interventions to fix the positioning. In the first place, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.145.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies, and good afternoon, also, and thanks, to the people who accompany us to the public today. It gave the Greek poet Iorgos Seferis, who there where you touch it, the memory of dol. And I think that in this particular case, the memory of a lot. I, who am hidden in democracy, can not imagine the pain suffered by the people who experienced the blackest and cruelest stage of our history. A civil war between Germans, and a subsequent dictatorship, as was Francoism, with almost forty years of repression. That is why, I want from here, just as my company, José María Espejo, has done before, to condemn the Franco dictatorship and to condemn, too, any other totalitarian regime. And I also want to show our rebuff to anyone who wants to coerce freedoms and anyone who wants to impose his ideology through por, coercion or violence. We say memory, where you touch it, dol. But sometimes, when alcohol is shed on a wound, it is a pain that helps to heal, and in this case, it is a pain that serves to help repair the victims and their families, those who suffered persecution and violence during the Civil War and during the dictatorship, those who suffered injustice, those who lost their freedom, those who were rushed, deported, interned in concentration camps, those who lost their lives, and, ultimately, those who suffered the horror of the Civil War and the atrocities of the dictatorship. And while memory hurts, this is necessary because – and allow me to use another date, in this case Aristotle – thanks to memory is given in men what is called experience. Experience, from which I can learn; experience not to make the same mistakes again; experience and memory not to live again in a divided society, it is said that one thought was paid with life. And we believe that in this the Transition did a very good job, where people who thought different were able to leave these differences behind to grow up as a society and build the foundations of democracy in which we now live. And these are the two ideas of memory, the memory that he repairs and the memory that he teaches, the one that in our hearing pretends and claims the law of historical memory, a law that presents this spirit of the Transition by putting in value the back-up and reconciliation of all Spaniards, and a law that recoils petitions and requests that were legitimate and just and that could not be left unanswered, as it is clear to his presentation of motion, from which I would like to read them a passage: "It is time, therefore, that the Spanish democracy and the generations living today in joy, honor and recovery forever all those who directly suffered injustices and hardships produced by us, by some or other political belief or belief. Of course, the ones who lost their lives. With them, their families. Also those who lost their freedom in prison, deportation, confiscation of their assets, forced labor or internment in concentration camps within or outside our borders. Also, in the end, those who lost their country to being engaged in a long, exhilarating and, in so many cases, irreversible exile. If it is true that this Law 52/2007, of 26 December, the law of historical memory, has aspects to improve, and that is why today the Socialist Group brings us this proposal. A proposal that wants to incorporate unsolved aspects into this law that we are talking about, a proposal that we obviously agree with, and that is why, unlike the proposal that we have seen in the previous debate – and here I will be very brief because I am referring to what my company has very well exposed, in José María Espejo – for us, for Ciutadans, it is the duty of the public authorities to make full reparation for victims and their families, and it seems to us that the demands that arise are legitimate. But it's that, besides, it's also a proposal that's appropriate in shape, because the sorting technique is the right one, because it's so important to repair victims as this repair really can be hard to finish. And how do we do that? How do we do that? Is there any debate that doesn't go wrong? No, not so; this is achieved by proposals like this, which bring claims to where they can really be approved. In Citizens we want these demands to be debated and turned into reality. We want to hang wounds so we can look forward. We want to honor those who found patience and even death for political and ideological questions. And what's more important, we want the reparation of victims, of their families, I'm aware that no reparation will ever be enough and with the hope that we'll never experience a similar horror again. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.146.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.147.0	Thank you, President. The proposal that today brings us the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and that company Pedret has defended from here, raises basically two questions. The first is to annul the Francoist courts, or as he has said, to make clearer and clear, in the law of historical memory, the clear annulment of the Francoist courts. And, on the other hand, the reparation for those who suffered deportation and jailed in the Nazi camps. We agree with both and we will vote in favour of the proposal, because we think it is appropriate. To say that at this moment the debate about the historical memory has three moments or three spaces that must be clarified. The first is that today it is a reality that the judiciary, the judiciary in the Spanish State, with connivance with political power, both the executed power and the legislative power, interprets the amnesty law as a final point law. This is a reality that the anti-Franchist fighters and fighters, when they fought for the Amnesty Law, did not foresee, but today many courts have quoted the Amnesty Law to stop some former Francoists from sitting on the bench of defendants. And, therefore, it is necessary to read the Law of Amnesty as a democratic conquest designed for the fighters who for forty years suffered the reprisals of the Francoism, not as a law of the end point. Especially because crimes of human injury – stealing women, torturing, forcibly disappearing people, deporting them or committing political assassinations – are crimes that do not prescribe either here or elsewhere in the world, according to international law. And trying to interpret the amnesty law as a final point law is simply a misproposal. For this reason, some organizations and victims of the Francoism have found the justice they have not found in the Spanish State in Argentina. And it has been found that when Judge Servini, through Interpol, has asked the Spanish Government and the Ministry of the Interior to cooperate because some former French ministers can be questioned for Argentine justice on the basis of the crimes allegedly committed..., we have seen how the Spanish Government and some institutions have turned their faces, and have cited the Law of Amnesty as the law that has forgiven the crimes of these botxins. Therefore, this is a matter to be clarified, and all that is to be improved on the 2007 Historical Memory Law is a step forward that we support. At the same time, to say that the law of historical memory of 2007 left out in a sufficiently clear form the annulment of Francoist judgments. At that time it was argued that nullifying the Francoist courts could involve a force, an element of legal insecurity that would pose in question the entire legal architecture of the Francoism and its forty years. Well, the only one we're asking for is the annulment of the political courts, and that's imperative that I be clear, and we think that today we're voting a step forward in this sense. And that law also left aside the reparations of those who suffered, for example, the deportees and prisoners of the Nazi camps. So this is a step forward. A third element that is also hanging from the point of view of the historical memory is the pits. In Catalonia, very important steps have been taken and the latest DNA project is one more step in this direction, but in the rest of the State you know that there are hundreds of thousands of people buried in the country's counes and that there is no sign of the Government of the State's will, in these years, to apply the law of historical memory, to deepen in the opening and identification of the pits. Obviously, a country that has its anonymous deaths buried in its counes, has to ask if it is a democratic country, or what is the quality of its democracy. And, obviously, when the United Nations Human Rights Committee, in 2014, its rapporteur called on the Spanish Government to nullify the political judgments of the dictatorship and the opening of the pits, it did so from an international institution, and the public authorities are obliged to take steps in this direction. So, yeah, that's not enough. Important things have been done in historical memory, this morning we were debating it; it is true, we will not deny it, but I can assure them that there are still many more steps to give. Our big ones are dead. A day will come when those who suffered torture directly will not be able to repair them, but I can assure them that their children and grandchildren will not rest until the memory of the fighters and the anti-Franquist fighters is fully recovered. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.148.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.149.0	Thank you, President. Mr Pedret, I have noticed in your speech, so a feeling of strong emotion at the time of presenting this text, which I think you see, for a band, years ago. [[the timer riu]] that they are working on these issues, and perhaps, on the other hand, to see how this morning the government bench was absolutely full and now that it is precisely the same and, besides, some repairs, the whole government is missing three advisors. [[Greetings.]] Not to mention other areas of this Parliament, which were also full. And now it's the same debate. And I want to greet, first of all, the people who accompany us. And the center of my intervention is to tell them that they can count on the Catalan People's Party to demand these compensations, that they have so far been left out of the reparations of war and dictatorship. Allow me a personal confession. For me it's always an honor, sometimes a painful honor, because the facts are, revisiting the adventures of the Republican memory. For four years, the Republic was my intellectual homeland. Every morning, I remember well, he came to the historical archive, left the motxilla, and that elevator was like a temporary shuttle, which captivated you in another epoch, and through the diaries, the maps, the books of that period, you could copy and get in the sensitivities, in the impulses, in the illusions of a period, from the Solidarity Workers to the Diario de Barcelona. And the Second Republic surprised me; it surprised me and captivated me. I attended that period that was, and still I think, a synthesis of all our contemporary history. All, all the contemporary history of Spain, condensed there; all territorial, temporal, religious, social conflicts, all there condensed; all illusions, all fists. And I was able to prove how the new rule of hope filled the color of millions of people; everything seemed possible. The change of system had led to what many considered the historical barriers of progress, and so it could proceed with reforms of all kinds, from the agrarian to the military, passing through many others. But I also proved that this hope was sometimes barred by dogmatism and benevolence. I followed, day by day – day by day – during those years, as democracy was not opened with force, as the ideal of justice and equality advanced with firmness, but also as those who had carried the democratic rule, I am sorry, gave a moment of state when they did not like the election result. That's hard to say, that's not what anyone wants to say, but I can't deny what my eyes have seen and read. "It's not this, it's not this," said Ortega; "A year of the Republic; maybe when we didn't have it we estimated it more than now we have it, they gave it to Humanity." And, despite this, the republican work continued, of education, of reform, of modernization, of rediscovery of Espanya in its pluralism; a historical work, a work of profound renewal of Catalan and Spanish society; a work, in many areas, of civilization, perhaps not in others. Therefore, I want to say: sincere honor and in the face of the democrats of that period; sincere honor and in the face of all those who worked for freedom and justice, from the postulates of democrats. And I would like to receive today a special tribute to the great policies of the first good, to the very ones who ruled with a republicanism full of convictions, but also hard, light and uncompromising; the ones who had advocated to win and nail the adversaries. But they themselves, four years later, in the spring of the 36th, were the last bulwark of Republican concord. I think of Azaña, a sincere patriot and friend of Catalonia, who, moreover, took hands and hands to bring the situation back to life. I think of Prieto, of the Socialist Party, who opposed the most extreme sectors that called for the immediate revolution. I think of Companies, who bet, in an atmosphere of fun, for the Lliga. At the Catalan oasis there was no invention of Pujolism, the oasis was invented in the year 36 when some people said: "Here, in Catalonia, while the rest of Spain there is a climate of confrontation and growing beauty, here we can make a space of civilization. It is the same line that followed Pi and Sunyer to the Barcelona Assembly, or Rovira and Virgil to the pages of La Humanitat. And it was all that bad and dissipated coup d'état; a coup that we today refuse and condemn again, even though it doesn't go to the top of the paper, even though this statement doesn't go back to the journalist. A bad shot, which gave place to a terrible civil war and a long dictatorship; a dictatorship that left a lot of people with pain, and today we have witnesses, some of them accompany us and we retaliate. Before those who have suffered the violation of human rights, before those who have been victims of injustice, we can and do nothing but discover ourselves. And we ask ourselves if we can repair his patience better, not from the logic of revenge, but from that spirit of reconciliation and recognition. As I said to the beginning, I want to tell those people who went to hell in the concentration camps that we want to recognize their right to repair and memory better. Today the Socialist Party asks us to study formulas to repair those people who, fleeing from the winners of the Civil War, ended up in Nazi concentration camps, lived the horror, and we want to help fill that wound that we can never contain at all. But these days, since the political and media power in Catalonia, the proposals we are discussing today have been presented as an absolute novelty. It is a clear and clear manipulation interested, because since the year 77 the State has approved many laws and dispositions to repair and compensate the victims of war and dictatorship. I think, for example, of the same amnesty law, so bewitched, that it restored the charges to its functioning. I am thinking of the Decree of March 6, 78, of the UCD, for which pensions were granted to the purged military republicans. Or in other decrees of the law, which granted pensions to the victims of the war, that same year 78. Or the year 80, still ruling the UCD, two laws that better guarantee the rights of the ancient republican military and of the wounded in the republic. Or the year 84, already with socialist government, a new law completed the reintegration into the regular army of the Republican military. The socialist government also established a series of economic reparations for people who had suffered jailed during the franchise. And during the government, already, of the People's Party, the unions, the parties recovered their benefits. And in the last law of historical memory. Other cases have already been explained. Ladies and gentlemen, we can go deeper into the repairs, today we start a procedure to do it, but what we can't say in any way, and they're saying from the government, without missing the truth in a clamorous way, is that the Parliament of Catalonia is the first to repair the victims of the franchise. I'm done, President. Let us therefore see better the victims of war and dictatorship, let us look for the things that the family ask of us; let us do it in the shadow of that spirit which allowed us to close four civil wars and two hundred years of discord; let us do it without frontism, without seeking the political verdict, with a certain prudence. Let us never forget, Members, to look at the Mirall before raising the so-called accuser and proclaiming the anthem against the others. Perhaps the Mirall or archives or memories now silenced can compromise our absolute speech. We all know what went on in the Civil War, we all know that. And we all know, in the background, when we are defending a just cause or when we are partyly using the memory of victims. I have absolutely no doubt that what is sought here is the defense of justice. Today we listen to the cry of those who were sentenced in summary trials, but another day we can feel the remorse of those who sleep forever without having passed through the mind of judgment. Let's think of Andreu Nin, let's think of the deputies and members of the League. Someone will have to remember some day, members of the League, murdered MPs without justice, too. We are touching the lives of many families and of many people, we do not femme with his memory a weapon of combat. I reiterate, ladies and gentlemen, the public that accompanies us, our commitment to the memory and reparation of those Catalans who suffered from the exile and cruelty of the concentration camps. We hope that this piece of law will be useful to you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.150.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas, for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.151.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. We're... we're gonna make enough of it now in this intervention. We think that the project that really focused today's interest, therefore, is the project that they have donated, that they have generated and that somehow they have built the entities, the majority of memorialist entities in Catalonia, which somehow has also achieved a broad consensus in this Parliament. And also why, with the utmost respect for what is the content of this text that supports our PSC, so you know that we are not worthy of the strategies of parliamentary hypocrisy. It is to say that it costs us a lot that when someone ruled, they had the opportunity to legislate in a certain matter, it is more, they made the first law in this question that there was a state sphere, that then, at the end of practically two years, they came here to say that we made a proposal like the Catalonian Parliament to send it back to Congress to discuss... in a context where they no longer have the precise capacity to govern, so they have a certain political age, when we do not govern today, but when they govern the other demands they make, right? In any case, it seems to us that the proposal, and somehow recovering in this sense the thread, right? I would like to make it clear to me that we were not using the right way and that we were not in any way establishing an effective way... I would like to make it clear which is the experience of all those who participated almost fifteen years ago, as at least, to try to cancel these war councils by the way of jurisdiction. I say this because, since it is about effective lives, we do not forget that the main obstacle to the annulment of the Councils of War was not the Law of Amnesty, that it is another debate and that it has to see with the demand of responsibilities; but in the annulment of the Councils of War it is the responsibility of a body that is called Room Five, Military Chamber, of the Supreme Spanish Court. Because, even today, the person in charge of reviewing the war councils, and therefore the body in charge of declaring the nullity of these war councils, is a military court, and this military court is the Fiveth Chamber of the Supreme Spanish Court. Therefore, members of the PSC, or you, who ask for effectiveness, plant out once the military of the jurisdiction, and therefore effectively enable it to dictate just resolutions, or it becomes a little difficult that precisely what you plant in the institutions of the State has some kind of effect. Therefore, we think that you have more guarantees of implementation precisely the motion for a resolution that was presented this morning, that you have more guarantees of approval, than not the text that you are proposing to bring to the Congress of Deputies. In any case, such as that it is a sensitive matter, such as that it is a matter in which we feel fit to his position, we will abstain in the vote to allow this text to arrive at the Congress of Deputies, but we do not want to forget the pain of the disappointment of many descendants, family members, friends and related to the victims of the Francoism who hoped that when the PSOE ruled, precisely in 2004, in 2005, at the time of approval of the law of the historical memory, in 2007, this is the step that they are taking today in this chamber. I believe that this pain we also have to lay on the table, because there have been victims in this sense who have been, first, victims of the Francoism and, later, victims of the disappointment of a PSOE who committed himself to nullifying the judgments of the Francoism and who when he had this possibility, for the reasons we all know, of the system's bunkerization, chose precisely not to attack it. Therefore, by way of this proposal, but I have made it clear that we do not support it, because we are aware, precisely, that the best way to address the victims of the franchise is to show that their efforts were not in vain. And somehow, when we got back to the 77th year that Republican Legitimacy thread and this Parliament started to work, the institutions of the Generality started to function, until and until the Spanish Constitution of 78, so, take over that Legitimacy thread, we are clear that the republic that we proclaim in this legislature will be this authentic space of justice, of memory, of truth and of reparation that you have never achieved. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. David Bonvehí, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.153.0	Counselor, Counsellor, Members, Members, Members of the People's Party – who today, now, this late, I am four, in the morning three, and therefore you have already improved a little bit your assistance – I am one of the thousand nets in Catalonia that your opinions went to fight, therefore, to keep the Catalan institutions at the time of the Republic. My avi went to fight at the front when I was divided years, and the truth is he got lucky, because he came back alive, but until he died, when I was fifteen years old, he never wanted to talk about the war. But from here on out, I feel very honored that... not directly to him, but that we can talk about it and re-honor it to that generation of people, so that they have to suffer a lot, because even then, big people, they don't want to talk about it or talk about it. This morning our Parliament approved and gave substance to a bill to declare null and void all the summary war councils and correspondents, instructed, for political reasons, in Catalonia for the Franco regime. That's why we approved this morning. They're basically judicious in a law series that the Francos are doing. And the courts that are celebrated basically in the Military Government of here, in Barcelona, and in places, therefore, propers here, in Barcelona; but these courts..., the majority of these courts are celebrated here, but they are also going to celebrate many in Mataró, Sabadell, Terrassa, Vic, Manresa and Vilanova and the Geltrú, above all. According to the Decree of November 1, 36, it was established that in the occupied cities they would create permanent war councils, which they would judge with a summary and urgent procedure. And on July 5, 1938, we remember that Franco reinstated the death penalty after the Second Republic abolished it. In recovering the death penalty, the argument that is useful, which is served, is that its abolition, that there is no death penalty, was not compatible with the good functioning of the State. This morning we presented the proposal of the three parliamentary groups, to the institutions of the Commission of the Dignity, which asked all parliamentary groups. Only three, therefore, we signed it definitively: Together for the Yes, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and the CUP. And the other parliamentary groups, so they didn't want to sign it, or they didn't want to sign it. We, let me tell you that we understand the position of the Socialist Party, which is why it has put forward this bill, therefore, to bring this issue to the Congress of Deputies; but we have learned a little bit about it when the Commission of the Dignity asks the parliamentary groups to take action to nullify these judgments, the Socialist Party – with all the legitimacy they have, would only lack –, but it has re-opened this issue to bring it to the Congress of Deputies, when they know that they have had many and many years..., that this issue at the Congress of Deputies, therefore, can be resolved. It's hard for us to know, and as the CUP spokesman said now, so in times when they have totally had the opportunity to solve this issue and to cancel the judgments, they haven't done it. The Socialist Party, as I say, what it has done is to place this issue in the Congress, and, for this group, of Junts for the Yes, and for the very many people of this country, it is almost as if – almost – to help the pilot knowing, therefore, that this issue is not intended to solve. So good it wasn't, we'd be happy that it wasn't, but from the experience of the forty years we've been living in democracy, so this has been so far. We believe that after forty years, and that is why we presented it this morning directly, because this Parliament declares the nullity of the courts. We understand that we don't have to ask for permission from the State to declare our judgments void, but what we have to do, therefore, is to do it directly from here, without asking for permission from anyone else, since the experience has shown us... that it hasn't been good. What else do we have to wait for? That in forty years, that there was a chance to solve it, and that they haven't solved it. Do we have to wait for another law from the historical memory of the State? We have already seen the drafting of Law 52/2007, where, as I said before, the majority of the Socialist Party, which had the majority in the State, together with other parties that were calling it, did not solve this issue. Should we hope that the proposal we are sending to the Congress of Deputies will have the same fate that various proposals have been made, therefore, by different parliamentary groups to the Congress of Deputies? I will mention just two of them, and they are not from my political party, but they are, therefore, parliamentary groups that have tried to do so in the Congress of Deputies and have not left – and recently. For example, the proposal that the Republican Esquerra Group and Initiative for Catalonia..., presented a proposal of law, therefore, the year 2011 and was refused; or the Group of the Plural Left, which submitted another proposal in 2012 and was also refused. Why now, at the end of four years, will this be the most successful? We don't see it, we're skeptics. But in any case, for the depth of the matter, for the sensibility, because in the background what we say this proposal of the Socialist Party we have to subscribe to and we want to subscribe to it, so we will also give it away because this proposal went its course, if we are well aware that for us the priority is what we have done this morning and it is what will be done. This Parliament also remembers that the year 2012 approved a motion on historical memory, in which we were already talking about these issues and that for the vast majority, therefore, we expressed our disagreement with the publication that had been made by the Supreme Court, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Government of the State, which had made of the law of historical memory; especially for what it does to the refusal to take the necessary steps to review and declare null and void the Councils of War. And also in that young man we made a point– and I remember that the deputy Jaume Bosch stayed very focused – therefore, to the special gravity that, because of his symbolism, did not want to declare himself to be no judge of President Companies. Do we also have to wait another time for the United Nations to come back and turn red? In 2014, we recall that the United Nations Forced Disappearances Task Force submitted a demolishing report listing a long list of recommendations and giving three_months to the Spanish government to develop a work plan to implement these petitions. I suppose the warmest, as we say, so it's in the water, and so it hasn't happened. And also that same report from the United Nations, so it was very critical of the actions that the Spanish governments had taken over the last forty years. "The hundreds," said the report, "of family members with whom the working group met, expressed deep frustration at the administrative obstacles and the difficulties in accessing the information needed to clarify the whereabouts of their loved ones. Moreover, that report of the United Nations also criticized the law of historical memory, a law of limited historical memory, which with this proposal, therefore, made it better by the Socialist Party, but in any case, a law of very limited historical memory. From Junts for the Yes we consider that we do not want to wait any longer. That is why this morning, therefore, with two more parliamentary groups, we decided to bring this proposal forward. As I said, the proposals of the Socialist Party of this late, in the background, we share them and, therefore, we will also give them free. But they have to hear that we have to go to Madrid and ask for it. We are very skeptical and we have ceased to believe in this state and its democratic quality. We have chosen to follow our path, to create our own country model, our own country. We will exercise sovereignty with all the consequences, also with this, and the victims and friends of the victims of those trials deserve this recognition and their reparation. There are questions about the life that there is a moment to face, they can't wait any longer, and Catalonia today took a step forward: by memory, by justice, by democracy and by dignity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.154.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. As no report has been submitted, the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a Law amending the Law of the State 52/2007 on historical memory, and other related standards, continues its processing. [[Architecture Law Project (totality debate)]] [[200-00003/11]] The third item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the Architecture Law Project. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, is presented by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.155.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving forward at the time of debate on this Law of Architecture; I now assume that the deans and deans of various professional colleges, which have been working together with the Department of Territory and Sustainability, will be incorporated so that this law can be maintained. A first reflection: this was an initiative, a draft law that, you must remember, was included in the order of the day of a session of this plenary of the month of April, and we finally chose to withdraw its processing; we chose, all parliamentary groups, to government institutions, to withdraw the substance of this item from the agenda. What have we done during these months, and so have we shared it with the various spokespersons in this matter of parliamentary groups? What we have sought to do is, precisely, to refer to the consensus. What we have been looking at is to talk to professional colleges, to all professional colleges involved in the architectural process; to talk to them, to see how we can refer to a consensus that then did not exist and that at these times, in the professional sphere, we consider that there is a sufficient consensus, or rather a majority, for today to begin processing this law. In fact, based on the conversations that we have had with various professional colleges, we have incorporated some ideas that we have shared with all parliamentary groups; some ideas that have proposed to us, that have suggested to us the same professional colleges. In fact, today we are discussing the processing principle of a text that will already be better, and much more substantial, from the outset. Through the parliamentary group that supports the Government, the Junts for the Yes Group, and the other parliamentary groups that want to join, we will improve this text. Therefore, we wanted to do a work of craftsmanship, if I may, in order to achieve that the maximum number of sectors can be felt reflected in this law. This is not the law of architects, but the law of architecture. Let us remember that, in no case, it does not enter into the determinations of reserves of professional competence, as reflected in the law's prelegum. It's a law..., try to be an inclusive law and, after a lot of work, what we propose is a law that is of all the agents involved. We cannot think about architecture without thinking about the different professions involved in its entire process of creation. And this is a basic and essential element that we want to subrate. Why do we need this law? Why does Catalonia need an architectural law? In recent years there has been a growing priority for economic aspects and material and normative issues of building. And these aspects are prevalent over immaterial values and the social, environmental and cultural dimension at the time of assessing architectural proposals, and with mechanisms of action that prioritize results in the short term, but have often extended the common good and responsibility in relation to their own generations. To say it in a clear way and that you can hear: what is it that we want to avoid with this law of architecture? We want to prevent it from passing back what passed with the project of the new High Speed Sagrera station. We want to keep this from happening. Remember that it is an important project, both for its size and for its strategic interest, both for what it does to the city and for the country's joint. And it has clearly given priority to economic requirements over quality. It was a project, a record, that achieved levels of consensus against practically unthinkable, unaudited. He practically managed to mobilize all professional colleges in protest. The result of the process has triggered a multitude of alarms for the poor architectural quality of the winning proposal. And of cases like these, unfortunately, there are no others. That's what we want to avoid. In fact, we want to make a good law of architectural quality. There's a paradigm shift and we need to be able to adapt. We need mechanisms that allow us to place people as the center from which the city and architecture is built as a genuine expression of that. We want to put in value the architectural quality, breaking what I said to them: the tendency that has brought us every time more to prioritise economic aspects over qualitative aspects. And we want to relevancy architecture as first-class economic services and a sense of innovation and technological development. What is happening in the field of architecture is extraordinary, on the part of the various actors, on the part of the various agents, is extraordinary, and all this is in keeping with the resolution of the Council of Europe of 12 February 2001 and its conclusions of 24 May 2007. What's this girl doing? This law, in order to overcome this situation, fixed two objectives. First, put in value the architecture as well as public interest and distinguish it as a well-functioning one to guarantee the welfare of people and social cohesion; to what I said: people always at the center of our public action. And, second, the law also wants to present and preserve architecture as immaterial of social and cultural interest. And how do we do that? With what? How do we propose to do that? To achieve these objectives, the Law, the Architecture Law Project implements three types of measures: measures to promote architecture, measures to boost architectural quality and complementary standards for the contracting of architectural creation services. In this way, I insist, and this is, let's say, the delenda est Carthago, the constant reference element of this legislative initiative: qualitative criteria, cultural dimension, environmental and social considerations, linked to architecture. For all these arguments, we need an architecture law. Allow me to continue to highlight some aspects of this bill. The first, which is to which I have referred to the beginning of this intervention: the idea of a project, of an architectural process. It recognizes and values the simultaneous and coordinated participation of all professional disciplines involved in the construction process, necessary to ensure the highest quality. This is the power of the Architecture Law that challenges various disciplines linked to the construction process, to the architectural process itself. On the other hand, this is a pioneer law project; it is the first one to be expected of these features that will open up to the Spanish State and it is the first one to come to Europe. France won us for a while, for a very little. In Europe, as I said, only the French State takes advantage of us: just this month of July the French State has already incorporated into its architecture law the focus that we are now planting here. Third element: strengthens transparency, competition and publicity in public procurement processes, and opens up the option of participating in collective competitions for young professionals, who until now have found many difficulties in accessing them. Fourth: while enhancing a complete view of the life cycle of buildings and their environmental requirements, it enhances the economic value of quality in architecture and articulates mechanisms that will lead to an important economic estudier in the phases of operation and in the stages of execution of buildings. In fact, the BIM technology, the building information modeling, which the government is implementing with a very important preview of various professional colleges, is a very good tool in this economic containment system, and it is also what will allow us to speak the same language that is spoken at international level; invested in the project we are saving in the execution and we are saving in the exploitation of buildings. This is an important strategic bet. Our goal is that there will be a time when the BIM is also binding, as it is binding on many other European territories. For example, last year, the United Kingdom incorporated it. Many economic students; put emphasis on the project, quality in the project. We understand and can hear the concern that the enlargement of the contractual process can generate if we apply greater caution in the part of creation, but we will avoid where I say them, overcosts and temporary expansions in the phases of construction. We would like you to disappear or minimize this modified concept. This Architecture Law also bets because the environmental and sustainability criteria follow the main values at the time of weighing the architectural quality. Promotes measures of impulse of architectural quality on the part of public administrations; for example, the creation of the architectural quality council of Catalonia or the possibility to clone this instrument at the local administration. During the process of the law, we will have to be... and you, like parliamentary groups, will have to be very sensitive to the skills of the local administration. And, therefore, from the government, we will be absolutely fond of what is planted by parliamentary groups. It also promotes measures of diffusion, awareness, education and knowledge of architecture and heritage built, as well as promoting, in the curricula of the various stages of education, teaching about architectural values and their impact on the quality of life of people. It promotes the synthesis paper and innovation capacity of architecture in the process of sustainable development. We are talking about basic elements, which are no longer options, they are imperative at these times: energy efficiency, water saving or the use of suitable materials. At these times, you can't hear all the innovation there is behind architectural processes without taking these elements into account. Also bet to make these qualitative criteria prevail, as I said, over economics. And we do it from the public administrations, so assume the exemplary character that, in this sense, corresponds to us. In short, it is a law that establishes, for the most part, a high priority: architectural quality as a guarantee of social well-being, of environmental tablets and of economic rigour. These last few days, representing the Government of Catalonia, I have been able to attend the UN Hábitat, which is ending at these times in Quito, Ecuador. It is developing the new urban agenda proposed by the UN. The basic idea of this urban agenda is people's dignity. And the right to the city and the right to the territory. This is the basic and foundational idea. We, with this Law of Architecture, as well as with the law of the territory we are developing, which we are dealing with from the government, want to stand before the development of this new urban agenda. In fact, the message that we, with the Government of Catalonia, explained to the cities, the regions, the state, Quito, it was that the Government of Catalonia, Catalonia and the country want to set the front, that we have many good examples of good practices, from a point of view of planning the territory, from a point of view of establishing urban recycling and urban rehabilitation schemes. From the beginning, the law of the territory; from the beginning, the law of architecture. It is our most important contribution to this great debate that is the debate of humanity for our own years and for our own decades. I just graced the very good predisposition of a lot of people who have participated in this process. Agrair, today, the presence here of the col·legi d'Arquitectes de Catalunya, the col·legi d'Engineries Tècnices d'Obres Públiques de Catalunya, the secretary general of the Association of Promoters and Builders of Buildings de Catalunya, the director of the Ecole Tècnica Superior d'Arquitectura de Barcelona, the col·legi d'Engineyers Graduats and d'Engineers Tècnics Industrials de Barcelona, the vice president of the col·legi d'Aparelladors de Catalunya, the col·legi d'Engineers de Camins, Canals and Ports. They have also participated in the entire debate of this law the College of Geographers of Catalonia; of Biòlegs; the College of Technical Engineering of Public Works of Catalonia, to which I have already made reference; Graduate Engineers and Industrial Engineering of Barcelona, and the College of Economists of Catalonia. Thank you for your commitment. Thank you to the Directorate-General for Town and Country Planning, and to its Director-General, today, for having made this arrangement. I'm done. This is a starting point. The government makes available to the deputies and deputies of this Parliament a tool, a starting point. You're gonna have to make it better. I am convinced that after this debate we will have a great law of architecture. And this will be a new, unequivocal compromise of this country to the service of the people and to the service of this great challenge of humanity, which is to be able to leave to future generations a better arrival than we have received in this field, in this material and immaterial element that today in our country has architecture. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.156.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] All the same, we shall now proceed to the turn of speeches by the parliamentary groups, in order to establish their position. In the first place, has the word Mr Sergio Sanz, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.157.0	Thank you, President; good afternoon. In the first place, I wanted to greet the representatives of the professional colleges and the different entities. Okay. We are faced with a draft law that aims to establish measures to promote and boost the quality of the architecture, the architectural quality in the projects of construction and urbanization of the public space. And it is a good goal because architecture is fundamental in the configuration of the places where people live to whom here, as public representatives, we owe ourselves. Architectural quality, from a heritage and cultural point of view, is not easy to define. In a section of the bill, for example, reference is made to the objective weighting of architectural beauty, but the reality is that the cultural value of architecture is a questionable value in aesthetic and philosophical terms, and is therefore a hardly determinable and objective value. The quality of the constructions and their cost can be objectively assessed, structural safety, energy efficiency, health and habitability, as well as their ecological footprint and that of the urbanizing processes. In fact, there is already legislation regulating both agents and professionals involved in architectural projection and execution, as well as building requirements. There is the Building Management Act, the Building Technical Code, urban legislation and its regulations, or Decree 141/2012, which regulates living conditions. It is indisputable that the architectural quality of the buildings and the public space, in the technical, functional and artistic and cultural dimensions..., are fundamental to the quality of life of people and that the architectural legacy also serves us to understand ourselves, to understand humanity and civilization. So welcome is the debate on architecture to this Parliament, and let's talk about quality and values in architecture. But I did want to regret a bad legislative practice, that of the current Government of the Generalitat, which presents us with a draft law with a text that has not been agreed between the various social agents and professional colleges; and it must also be regretted that the agreements reached by the Government with the schools of industrial equipment and engineers have not been transferred to this draft law and will be presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts pel Si in the form of an amendment. We are in a full debate in which the Government presents to us a text that it drafted in the previous legislature and that is not the text that it wants to be adopted. We are presented with a text that has been reported negatively by the CSTC and by Competition. Do you think it's normal? Does it seem normal for this Government to present us with a bill that it wants to amend? From our point of view, in this way the real debate is being stolen in its entirety, which should be carried out in accordance with the final text, and which should have been modified and informed again by the bodies to which I referred earlier. But I can imagine that this way of proceeding is due to the Government's haste to legislate something before exhausting this eighteen-month legislature, which will end in an autonomous election to which the party without a name – that of 3_per_cent, you know – will be presented with its 2012 electoral program. I understand their need, a party with seats for corruption and without a parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies thanks to the citizens, rather busy with propaganda to keep in power, to cover up their own affairs and to maintain the positions of those who live, as well as to think about acting rigorously and meeting the social, educational, health and economic needs of Catalans. But back to the criticism of the lack of consensus, I have criticized this lack of consensus because agents, professions and knowledge that complement and relate are involved in the architectural process. The architectural process is a cooperative and multidisciplinary work, and its quality depends on how fluid and coordinated this collaboration has been. Collaboration, coordination and cooperation, each from its own sphere of competence, with which the best results are obtained, and many better results than when each goes on its own. Unfortunately, this bill comes here without this Government having worked sufficiently for that consensus, something, on the other hand, understandable, in an autonomous government that seeks to fragment the political community and divide citizens, going beyond democratic laws and rights. Therefore, not working for consensus is something we can criticize, but it is no surprise. In any case, it is not the values of which the law speaks that we are concerned, what gives us serious doubts is its usefulness, because in the end a law is a tool that must regulate to serve the general interest, and this law runs the risk of being little more than a declaration of good intentions. Because the academic and professional training of Spanish architects is good; our level of technical knowledge, our professional powers make Spanish architects very well valued in the international European context. I studied at ETSAB, at the Barcelona School of Architecture, and I know the prestige that this school has historically had among all Spanish schools and in Europe. Just as I know the contribution of the rationalist architecture of the GATEPAC and I also know the quality of the training of our engineers – my colleagues Marina Bravo or Francisco Domínguez are examples of this – and other professionals who also intervene in the creation and architectural construction, who demonstrate a great solvency. But the quality of architecture is put at risk when this government does not invest what is right in education and universities, when it hinders access to university training by raising fees, or when the university model that this government has condemns precariousness to its own workers and teachers. I'm going to give you an example of that precariousness. A friend of mine, a fellow promoter, was a professor at ETSAB, and he was teaching architectural projects at Barcelona's Technical School of Architecture until the university told him that, due to the cuts, if he wanted to continue teaching, it would have to be free. What do you think will contribute more to the quality of architecture, a law that announces great principles or public policies and investments aimed at improving the functioning of Catalan institutions and administrations? A law that proclaims great principles or urban and territorial planning that responds not to speculative criteria but to social and environmental criteria? A law that proclaims great principles or redefines that complex map of foundations, consortia and public enterprises seeking to circumvent administrative law to accommodate trade law? It is not, therefore, as necessary a law as the need for you to change your policies. One aspect that aims to improve the draft law is the conditions of access and facilitate the participation of young architects in public competitions. And that's fine, that goal we fully share, but there is already a law, the Entrepreneurs Act 2013, which establishes measures in this line, but which are elusive in public procurement through negotiated procedures or by circumventing administrative law through public enterprises, as I told you before. Because it is known that there have been mechanisms that involve discretion, through subjective criteria, in public procurement, a discretion that, misunderstood, becomes arbitrariness, with which corruption has been fed and bitten as those of 3_per_cent. It is therefore contracting practices and non-compliances rather than the legislative framework that limit competition and competition in public procurement by a greater number of technicians. Practices that run counter to the general interest and represent a barrier to innovation, and which the Government, at present, could already correct. The architecture is also related to the working and professional conditions of the agents involved. Today the difficulties of maintaining an open office of architecture or engineering are enormous. To the devaluation of fees and the burden of the quota of self-employed and liability insurance are added the slowness of administrative procedures and these barriers of access in public competitions. I know these difficulties in the first person, because before I arrived in this chamber I set up my own office, and before that I also worked in third-party offices, and I know what is the precariousness of the false autonomous, and I also know the difficulties and efforts of some friends who have had to emigrate to other countries where they have found an opportunity. Let's think about all that, too. And, in any case, welcome is the debate on the quality of architecture and on what measures the Government of the Generalitat can take to improve on this matter. And let us bear in mind something in this debate: the quality of architecture influences the economic and social conditions of the society in which it takes place. The architectural quality of buildings and public space in Pedralbes, for example, is superior to the quality of buildings in Teixonera, and this is because social inequalities have a decisive influence on the configuration of public space, its quality and architectural quality. So allow us the skepticism before this bill, a bill to which Ciutadans, however, we will try to contribute to achieve its ends, but without losing sight that in order to begin to improve the quality of the architecture this Government could allocate the resources that it wants to allocate to the own hisenda or to the delegations abroad to invest in plans of improvement of neighborhoods. They may not get so many headlines, but they will help improve people's quality of life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.158.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.159.0	Counselors..., greet also representatives of professional colleges who attend the dam today in consideration of this law. To tell you on the way in, Mr Councillor... – also in the past of the department, with which a part of this law was born – to tell you that the Socialist Group does not seem ill-advised the initiative to promote actions, in this case in the form of law, in order to promote the values of architecture and architectural quality. In fact, my parliamentary group appreciates the efforts and the bet that from various institutions, administrations or the same Colleges of Architects, as well as other professionals, took place in the later years in Catalonia. The work that has been done, the efforts, the stake for architectural quality; work of intervention in buildings, in public spaces, work of dignity, rehabilitation, creation, are good examples. But we have to go, from our point of view, beyond the concept we sometimes have, huh? And I listened to the councilman about architectural quality. Today, now, I think we must also think, because there are many reasons to do so, in the future, in the problems of today's societies, which are also problems of our society, which are not aliens to these problems, and which are part of them, or which must also form part of what we know or want to begin to define as architectural quality. Okay. I'm talking to you about environmental issues, climate change, that without any uncertainty, it's the big problem, it's the big challenge that the planet..., what humanity is facing and what we have to give from here too; we have to put our grin to adapt to this situation, right? As a result, the architectural quality also passes in great measure to give response to this challenge. It's true that she won't give him a solution, will she? There must be sectoral regulations that fully enter this issue; the same climate change law, which is currently in parliamentary proceedings – has already passed the hearings and we will enter the proceedings and debate in question – they will have to address these issues. Now, it would be good if this law that begins today also its processing, its path in Parliament, is fixed on these themes, because a part of the architectural quality of the future will also pass to face and give answers to this topic. O... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , the quality will also pass through the rehabilitation of the park of habitats that we have in the country; thousands of habitats built in other times that today do not pass what we all would believe to be the quality in the construction, eh? , in terms, for example, of energy efficiency. Many of our buildings are not prepared to face these challenges and will therefore also be warm to enter these questions: equipment, public spaces, but also private buildings, which are often not designed for what we have to do in these buildings, that is, they are not designed to calculate what will happen to these buildings in their useful years. And we find that sometimes the costs of maintaining these buildings, whether private dwellings or public buildings, their cost is absolutely higher or deorbited than the costs of creating and building these buildings. Well, in the concept of this quality... in all these questions, we think it's going to be good to think about it and get in there. Quality that with all certainty does not pass exclusively for architects, but for a group of professionals, but in them, architects, some of the phone sectors, some of the main actors. Therefore, from this point of view, I return to express our conformity, in general terms, with this bill, which is a law of principles, a law of intentions. It is true, however, that there are some aspects that the Socialist Group will want to improve in the parliamentary procedure. You don't know Councilman Rull, because we haven't talked about it, and so does the same College of Architects, because we haven't talked about it, for a few months now that we're talking about those issues that our group is going to try to improve, right? Because if this law comes out..., or according to approved results, from our point of view, it can limit the performance of local authorities: it can impose a certain model on the country's assemblies, for which it does the criteria for the valuation of technical proposals, is to say, as it is at these times, we do not see that an instruction from the Government or instructions from the Government can be imperative to local authorities or local authorities; it could also pose a question of the free composition of the technical and sworn months of local authorities. We believe that it will take longer not to enter into conflicts with the Law of Public Sector Contracts. Here we want to do..., open a parenthesis that I'll shut him down quickly. It would do well to administer the State, which it has not done, to transpose the new directives that the European Union has issued in the matter of contract – close to the parenthesis – because some are directly applicable. It would be good if the State did its dues even if it had a government in place, huh? Now, you will also do well to fine-tune this law which is now beginning its parliamentary procedure, not that we have also entered, that we believe that there is, in some way, a contradiction also to this same European directive and to other European directives which are contained in competition monopolies. So, you'll find the formula between quality, price..., to set an example, huh? And we also need to avoid more administrative burden at a time when all administrations tend to simplify, without meaning less guarantees, right? But we should tend to simplification and not increase administrative burdens. We do not see that the consulting bodies that the law proposed to create..., what we do not see is that its reports have a precept and binding character for what it does to urban planning and planning. This is a question that we have proposed or said since my parliamentary group that it will be necessary to reflect more deeply on it, and certainly to narrow it down into very defined figures in the same general urban planning. These are the main remedies that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has for this law, I think they will be easily agreed with most parliamentary groups, also with the same government, in this parliamentary process, or so the Socialist Group expects. And finally, tell them that we are willing to work with all the parliamentary groups from a positive point of view, so as to improve the bill, because we understand that this bet on architectural quality is to be boosted from..., no, from professionals, it is obvious, but we also need to boost it from the Parliament of Catalonia, because what we are doing is pushing the same quality of the country. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.161.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, give welcome to all the hands and all the people who accompany us today from the different professional colleges; especially also to the College of Architecture, to Mr. Lluís Comerón, who has had the patience to listen to us, re..., on repeated occasions before the doubts. Also say hello to the two councillors: a little, the councillor father of this law, the councillor Santi Vila, and the councillor Rull. Mirin, in 2012 the government approved this bill, which I think is going to find a little bit on the table and that it is seen that the councillor Santi Vila had shut down a little bit quickly, since there was not enough consensus of the whole sector involved in the architectural process. At that time, we were going to present a statement to the totality, for the reasons I will comment on later, many of which were shared by different professional colleges and are still there; despite the efforts we are aware that the department has made to incorporate it better and to incorporate aspects that called for other colleges, even though there are questions that will need to be worked during the questioning. We then basically questioned the need for the law, its public justification and some of its contents. We value, yes, positively, that at that time the government withdrew the law and initiated this process of consultations to improve the text, to soften it, to remove that marked corporate character and, I would say, classist who had, and value above all his offer, counselor, that you are open to improve the text in parliamentary processing. That's the compromise that's been determining why we don't go back to presenting the item to the totality. Because we will not object, counselor, to the initiation of the process, even though today the Government is presenting the same text to us – said Sergio, the deputy of Citizens –, I suppose that because we do not have to initiate the procedure after the beginning. But, of course, we continue to hold a critical position before the law, above all because of this, because of the feeling, because of the need and fitness, rather than being content perhaps with a determined, professional collection, which we know has suffered greatly from the crisis, which has been pre-characterized, and to put in value the architectural quality. And here you see one of the elements, right? : the architectural quality, a concept that appeals to values, that is not neutral, but that will be warm that we define, because, if not, the thing can be very intangible. But as it is a law that cannot cause negative effects, but years on the contrary, we believe that there are aspects, such as the collections in Chapter III, the complementary norms to the contract, can be positive, we will pull forward and present the papers. Above all, what we want is that this law does not imply a more administrative burden, is to say, that it does not add more bureaucratic complexity to the architectural process, that it already has, and that it would be paradoxical, when you did all the buses in 2012, right? , speaking of administrative simplification, which has now become a burden. And, above all, it serves not only to take over the collection of architects, but also to take over..., to change the model of cities, to improve the quality of life. Because in the end, in the preamble of the law, it's about architectural quality, but we think that the preamble is a little sloppy, it didn't just take the whole meaning of the European directive. Because architectural quality, for us, is also environmental quality, it is fighting against climate change, it is maintaining social cohesion, as essential elements to make an urbanism and a quality architecture. To talk about architectural quality, in the end, is to talk about quality of life to cities and barrels – to degraded barrels, to poor urban areas – to talk about rehabilitation, it's to talk about..., it's to bring solutions. And we believe, at the same time, that if we do not amend other regulations that regulate these minimum living conditions, if we do not make progress in transposing European directives, for example, for the energy efficiency of buildings, then we will not succeed with this law alone. Architectural quality – and the Terrades company reminded them – is also the quality-price relationship throughout the project's architectural process, isn't it? : from project to execution, to subsequent maintenance. We've seen it many times, especially since public administration, haven't we? , which different governments ended up making very expensive buildings more for a question of autobomb of greatness, didn't they? which the French would say, without taking into account the cost-benefit relationship or without taking into account the use or possible uses that this building may have for the length of its life. Therefore, we would like to see the law – and we will make statements in this sense – when it speaks of quality and intangible values such as beauty, so we can set some objective and objective criteria, we can set reference values for professionals, for works. For example, in cases of public contract, as other countries of the Union have done, fixing, for example, cost forks to be held by a building, right? A school of many lines, how much can it cost? More than a king, so that no government, municipal or non-government, or some architect, will be caught up in a work in which the cost-benefit relationship is not adequate. It will also be necessary to see the full transposition of this law..., as we adapt the reports to the new European contracting directives, which, moreover – as the report of the Advisory Board on Administrative Contraction reminded us – on April 18, 2016 had already been transposed. And, therefore, if it is not done, you know that, in Community law, it is there, it will be the European directive that will lead. Therefore, we will have to see how we incorporate it into the entire public contract chapter. This chapter III, which is substantial to me, isn't it? Because it's the one who orders the contests, the one that avoids the separation between project and direction... that we're going to see here... because here we all don't agree, not all colleges. I think there's a theme missing and that for us, it's an important theme and it's going to take a look at how we incorporate it. And that's what I'm saying, which refers to relationships and collaborations between professionals, is to say, between the great reputes or consulting, subcontracting architects, prechariting and invisibility, and eventually degrading a little profession as well. We believe that this part is absent from the law, the regulation of collaboration between professionals. Which curricular rights have these subcontracted architects who do the work at the big firms? The architects who contract, who subcontract, have an obligation to send or not proof of collaboration? The Administration, how will you value these contracts in your competitions? All these questions, which we know are day-to-day, especially young architects and who come from the academy. Because it's very good to reward architecture and built heritage, but it's time to fine-tune after, when we make the rules, when we make the regulatory development..., so as not to deepen the differences between professionals already of prestige and the new ones that are incorporated, right? ; that, unfortunately, many of those who come from universities, a little, the future they have is either emigration or precariousness and hard work, except honorable exceptions of cooperatives like Lacol, who are a group of young architects and who are working in another line. Finally, because I see that I have a little time left, we say that it was difficult to find the sense or the suitability of making a specific law to achieve objectives that, as the report of the Council of Treball, Economic and Social, could already be achieved by means of other standards and other plans that existed, or that could have been established by means of decrees, for example, such as the Premi Catalunya. But we... or what, for example, why not? , you could have incorporated into this law of territories that you are preparing– you spoke of this law, counselor–, because you could have set aside a whole range of these themes from architecture to the future law of territories. And more so when you say yourself, of this law, that it doesn't want to be a text-back, an addition, but that what it wants is to change the model, the paradigm, and above all that it isn't regulatory, isn't it? But they have done so; we will be there, and what we do is trust and ask the group to support the government that we can incorporate all these and other aspects into the debate on the question of the question to improve the law, so that we can make a useful law not only for a professional sector, not just for the profession, for the concept of architecture, but above all to advance, just as you have been to Habitat these days, right? , has coincided with Mayor Colau..., to be able to advance in a more equitable, more sustainable cities, than to recover to the public, the common good..., in other words, cities where all and everyone can live and be happier. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.162.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.163.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Councillors, Councillors, allow me to especially value the presence of Councillor Vila, not so much as the predecessor of Councillor Rull in the Department of Territories, but as the current Councillor of Culture, because I understand, and I believe that certainly not enough reference has been made..., this bill also has to see something with culture. And, therefore, from this point of view I make this appreciation. This is, for us, a bill from this government, from the past and beyond, innovative and original. And basically it's for motius, isn't it? It's not a law of disconnection, it's not a law of state structures, it's not an law of independence, and I'd still say it's not an ideological law, at least even ideological, huh? – at least ideologically. That's right: Councilman Rull has already made it clear to us that it's a process law; architect, an architectural process law. And the second innovative move is that it is a law that seeks to recover and stimulate creativity, and in this case, concretely, architectural creativity. We must remember that, at the length of the years, precisely architectural creativity has been a sign of identity in Catalonia, in many municipalities of Catalonia. Particularly in Barcelona, we still have, and we hope that for a long time, they continue to be an attraction and a heritage of the highest order of the city and of the conjunction of Catalans. This is, therefore, an initiative that seeks to promote architectural quality from different points of view: intellectual, cultural, as it were, and artistic. And, of those values that are described in the very enunciation of the law, we highlight what for us is more innovative and reflects the object of the same law, and is written in article 2, which is beauty, artistic interest and its contribution to the debate of architectural culture; culture, in short. And they are values that it is essential to combine with others that we certainly have more at the bottom, surely we have more use of everyday, such as functionality, accessibility, suitability to the environment, sustainability, sustainability from the cross-sectional point of view, both from the environmental point of view and from the economic point of view. And it is precisely this set of values that makes architectural creativity a multi-disciplinary task from the point of view of the profession, and it is precisely this multidisciplinary character that has generated some controversy between the professional collections that feel directly linked and that are certainly many. For the part that corresponds to us as a parliamentary group, far more so than to think that this law is addressed to the interest of a single collection, but, on the contrary, we believe that it is addressed to a whole set of professions and professionals, but above all, it is addressed to the benefit of the Catalan society's joint venture. And, in this sense, it will be necessary to make it clear, in the definitive drafting of the law, if it is that at this time it is not sufficiently clear. He had the opportunity to comment, before entering the hemisphere, that one of the original sins that the bill commits is certainly to mention certain professional activities that may be related to the architectural process, and obviously there was no lack, it is only sober, on the contrary, there was obviously no lack. And, therefore, from our point of view, there is no objection to clarifying and reinforcing this multidisciplinary character of architectural creation. I try not to refer to any discipline in concrete terms, nor to those disciplines which I may consider to be close, in order to avoid any sensitivity. For what it does to the content of the bill, it means to differentiate two clearly identifiable parts. Chapters I and II, intents and purposes that seek to highlight the interest of the proposal and the incentives devoted to it, and a few things we can certainly add. Surely, some of us will propose, such as including a young version of the prize that is set up, to also encourage young people to participate in these architectural creation processes. And possibly change the title to the fact that you don't, perhaps, make such an explicit reference to a particular profession, but to a certain objective, that it is that of architectural creation. That's what we talked about in relation to the plurality of professions involved in the process of creation. And Chapter III, with a more normative vocation, with an impact on the mechanisms of public contracting, and from our point of view, with greater complexity, because it will also be necessary to combine the object of the law, which is this incentive to creation, with the principles that must inspire public action, the simplification and relief of the administrative processes, we are reminded of the Council of Economic and Social Work and also the Catalan Authority of Competition, but also the transparency of the acts of Administration, respect for competition, respect for competition and respect for local autonomy. And so, I'm sure that in this chapter we'll have to maintain more strength, because at this point in time you're going to have the text count, maybe, some malfunctions – sure, some malfunctions – that will need to be corrected. And, as we say, the Catalan Competition Authority does a lot of comments that, as a minimum, we will have to consider during the parliamentary process. Therefore, the position of our parliamentary group is a more positive view of this draft law, more positive than the objective pursued by this draft law. We see some malfunctions, we think they are perfectly correct, but as far as we are in agreement with the objectives you are pursuing, we were going to choose from a good start not to present an issue to the totality, to enter the debate in committee and parliamentary office, and, therefore, to correct those aspects that we believe are perfectly correct because this law..., this bill of law comes to completion with its purpose. Therefore, this is the position of our parliamentary group. And like I didn't do at the beginning, I'm taking advantage of it now to greet the tenets of the different colleges that accompany us, and also the departments that do so. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.164.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.165.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. To say, from the outset, that as CUP - Crida Constituent we are completely in favour of the architectural quality, as we are also, therefore, of the quality of food, or the quality of teaching, or the quality of our health system, basically because we understand that the habitats that we build are part of this quality of global life. And it's also true that, in general, we could say that we have some bad endings, some final endings of work, so to speak, that many times they leave much to desire, and, therefore, it's interesting to make it face to face with some point of view. Now, we understand that from the start, this is already asking for two initial questions, as I would say. For starters, a seminal and contingent. When one sees this title of "Architecture Law" he thinks: "Well, and why of architecture and not of biology, or of engineering, or of law, including, therefore, of pastry or of confectionery? God... well, huh? It's a doubt that, from the start, we don't know what's in this box. That reminds a little of the end of the age of gangs, doesn't it? Or I could remember a little bit the time of the end of the gangs, when everyone, then, was defending a little bit trying to shield who their competitions were. And it seems to us that we are not at that time and, therefore, we should begin to work in questions, so to speak, much quieter. A second initial doubt that if we raise is the question of the opportunity of this law. And the question is, why are we doing this now, 2016? Why didn't we do it in 2001, huh? , when the Council of Europe makes the resolution of the 12th of February you say..., right? , talks about the architectural quality of the urban and rural surroundings? Or why didn't we do it in 2005, when these recommendations of the Council of Europe are transposed into a directive..., or are they adopted on the part of a European directive? Maybe they were too busy, weren't they? , building and urbanizing compulsively and not having time to reflect on architectural quality, which, as I said, leaves much to be desired. That's to say, when everything was going well, so no one, then, thought of architectural quality, maybe we thought of some other questions. Perhaps, from the start, he also raises the doubt, this law..., when you read the title and a little bit more there and all..., because implicitly, therefore, it seems to be a law to give to a collection, which is, in this case, above all, isn't it? Then, with the collection of architects, who, with other collections, are very much touched by the crisis and the escalation of the housing cylinder and... So, well, they are collectors who are certainly going through it badly, with many young architects, so... – as has been said by other groups – who have to emigrate to other parts to gain their lives with that profession that they once decided to undertake. And they do that, say, looking only at this law, from the beginning, and saying that why there is no law, therefore, of medicine, a law of biology, a law of the pastry or of the confectionery, so, of course, now it might be after these vengeful ones, right? And we started to have all the different lobbies of the different professions that came under your law, didn't we? Clearly, once we looked at the law we saw that this did not just go well, especially with the corrections that the government has told us that they want to introduce, and move forward in this line. I mean, when you read this law, at least as it is written, it still doesn't incorporate those better ones that they want to incorporate, so it gives you this impression, huh? And then, certainly, the government has already, I say, made a first correction, that it is to take all the contributions that have made some other professional collections that also understand or understand that are part of the construction process, the process of urbanization, the process, in short, of making a good architectural quality. We also understand that it should not be a law – it should not be a law – to pass the page of this period, so to speak, of pathological construction, of this process of real estate cylinder; it is to pass from tips without making any self-criticism of everything that has meant this and why they have not done this before or why we have not introduced this concept of architectural quality before, when perhaps it was necessary, because now we can say that evil has already done it. In any case, we can now work mostly in rehabilitation, recovery and, ultimately, everything that we start doing from now on, so we can do better, but the interesting might have been doing it either give it or fifteen years back, which is when we actually built and urbanized a very large number of hectares, as had probably never been known to the extent of our history. I, to the band of these initial doubts, a copy of the law, a solar copy, right? These knowledge and all the inputs and information we can get have... well, if we're in other ways, we're in doubt. From the entrance, we see that it's a law that has three great asides, three great chapters. Two parts, which would be in Chapter I and Chapter III of this Law, deal with aspects that are already regulated by other laws, or at least affect issues that are already dealt with in other laws. So, that's what I always say and I've heard myself say a lot of times, that Catalonia is a country that legislates a lot, manages a little and evaluates things, right? And you say, "Ostres, if we already have a law or a set of laws that are already dealing with this question, then why don't we improve them? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I mean, that's the way it is, we have a lot of laws! Says: "Why do we introduce more complex elements that interfere in other aspects, when, then, we already have a regulatory issue that already addresses this problem that is to be solved? In this case, therefore, improve everything that would be construction and urbanization, especially for which it refers to the public part of this construction. Therefore, we have an apartment that already makes reference, from the point of view of administration, of public contract, as I say, that already refers to these laws of public contract. This is what we are giving the conclusions of this regulatory report of the Catalan Authority of Competition – not the radio program – this in which what it does is to advise the Government and the conjunction of Catalonia, therefore, in the matter of questions related to competence. We are not much of competition, we are much more than cooperation; but in any case, this report refers to the question of whether there are any rules governing public procurement, and that, therefore, we say, this could be counterproductive, it could bring elements of confusion, etc. For another band, too, as I said, at a time of administrative simplification, we have a recent law, on 16/2005, simplifying the administrative activity of the Government of the Generality and of the local administrations or of the local governments, and this draft law of the architecture can re-introduce elements of confusion. That is to say, while for one band we are simplifying all administrative procedures, to make life easier for people, so, for the other, we introduce these elements of confusion, of generating new regulations, of complexity, etcetera. From these blocks 1 and 3, and from this second part, to which this law refers, urban and landscape aspects are dealt with, which are of autonomous competence and which, as I say, have our own laws, and also deals with aspects of the planning of the building, or, more related to the Technical Building Code, which are of state competence. And, therefore, we already have legislation in which the content of this legislation affects parts of those legislations that we already have in force. And, moreover, we are in a process of drafting the law of territories, which precisely one of its aims and intentions we understand is to simplify, since we have a general territorial plan of Catalonia, going through the partial territorial plans, integrating the whole question of urban regulations, that we have a little lost, certainly, right? I don't know how many subsequent changes, including the introduction of landscape quality elements or landscape references, and also coastal-related issues. I mean, let's try to make a law that simplifies, huh? , this conjunction and this amalgam of laws that we have, that end up focusing on one aspect, that is how we order our territory, do it through a simplifying law. But, in turn, we are now making another law, a new law that speaks part of these questions, which are already dealt with in the Law of Urbanism, the Law of Landscape or the Technical Code of Building. So, and with what we're talking about architecture, what we're coming to say is that we can't start the house on the roof either. I mean, at a time when we're reconfiguring and rethinking how we want to be the new model of how we want to develop our territories, it's logical to rethink a law, that of territories, of year 83– huh? As I always say, it has already been implemented many times – rethinking the very laws of urbanism, all of this resonate in a single text that has all the coherence in itself and that in the end can introduce these elements of architectural quality. It brings two more questions, which I refer to in a quick way, that, say, we do not know if it is worth making a law to introduce aspects like the Catalonia Architecture Prize; is that to say, as a law to fix a prize? I mean, it's something we can generate in the band and it can be very good, but I don't know if it has to be within a law either. And then there's the question of architectural quality, which is... before it was mentioned, right? , there is a technical part– this has to be solved from the technical point of view, things have to be held up straight–, and, therefore, there are already some technical knowledge that has to be settled in this aspect, but then there is a subjective part, which is all the ethical dimension. This is left in the hands of a council that is basically formed by professional colleges, and when we are told that this law is to be used for public interest, does it have to be used to improve the quality of the people, where are the people, in the participation of this architectural quality? So, and to go so far, we think it's a law or a bill of law that we could say that it's a little opportune, that it's vague, that it's confus, that it could be, after all, unjustified and unnecessary, that it has aspects of inconsistency, that it introduces more than doubt that it doesn't solve, that it has an absence of quality control mechanisms built there, in the end, right? So what we do with the assessment, if we don't set up evaluation mechanisms, we'll never know if what we've done, that law, in the end, is good or not, because the ends that we're doing are good. In short, if we present enough work, the parliamentary processing of this law, we will have to look to save that which is indeed salvable, that we understand that there are some points that can be saved from this law, and, in any case, to try to simplify. And a proposal that we already make, from the outset, therefore, would be to make a transitory in this law, that the dexi will be in force while the territory does not exist, and that, in any case, an approved date that the territory...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.166.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.167.0	...we could incorporate it into this future law to finish simplifying and not introduce more elements of complexity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word Mrs Meritxell Roigé, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.169.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Rull, councillor Vila, director of the Ordenació del Territori e Urbanismo, also greet the col·legi d'Arquitectes, as well as the rest of the architects who accompany us. They will allow me to greet especially those who come from the demarcation of the Jew, from my territory, who are also here today. Also welcome and aggravate the presence of the College of Engineers of Ways, Canals and Ports, the College of Engineers Techniques of Public Works of Catalonia, the General Secretary of the Association of Promoters and Builders of Buildings of Catalonia, the Director of the Barcelona Technical School of Architecture, the College of Engineers Graduates and Engineers Industrial Engineering of Barcelona, and the Vice President of the College of Apparelators, and also all the colleges that accompany you, of the different professional colleges, as well as those that have not been able to attend, but have also participated in this bill. This is a law that, as Councillor Rull expressed, mainly responds to the commitment of the Government of the Generality Public Administration to the good practices of the architectural process. The object of the text, therefore, is to value public interest in architecture. With this project, therefore, it is intended to give importance to what it is building, to which it is rehabilitating, from a quality point of view. We are talking about improving the spaces, the buildings, the places where we find people, where we relate, in order to develop that human activity to the different peoples and cities of our country. This project, therefore, is concerned with the correct definition of public spaces, of social dimensions, of cultural dimensions, of environmental dimensions, of streets and of places also in relation to the private spaces of our municipalities, and is also concerned, therefore, with the different spaces that conform our territory. To complete this situation, the Architecture Law Project brings and values the architectural process as a public interest and aims to preserve the architecture as such. And to achieve these objectives, the law, the counselor has already said, implements different priorities: the promotion of architecture, the impulse of architectural quality and also establishes complementary standards for the contracting of architectural creation services. In this way, the law seeks to change the situation that we are living in many public activities, making it a priority to follow the qualitative criteria without forgetting, as we have said, the environmental criteria and the social criteria, which must always accompany architecture and which have not been done many times. And this project follows those resolutions imposed on us, which establish us the European Union and which advise us to promote architectural quality as a tool of social cohesion, and highlight, as we have said, also that which is more cultural in front of that which is more economic in scope. The project implements mechanisms to optimize the results of the architectural process from the qualitative point of view, it also highlights the establishment of juries and expert committees that will value all the qualitative elements of the proposals of the contracting processes, juries that will need to determine how they are also configured with local entities, because we understand that this law must also come from the hands of local administrations, concretely from the assemblies of our territory. And he has specialized, he has already expressed, that we have to age for quality, we have to age for the length of this law, and, therefore, we define, among the different chapters, recognition, so that it is worth the quality of this discipline. And we believe with this bill of law – I think I should also highlight it with some relevancy – the Catalonia Awards, which, and I stress, are not just recognition awards, but also suppose to put into revelry what we are producing in our country, which is often unknown to most of the people of our country, and so we put it in relevancy and every year we can determine it. We also believe the Council of Architectural Quality, which will also advise the Catalan Government in this matter, with the will that there is a close relationship between the Government, between the Administration and the sector. And it also reinforces the transparency, with this project, for which it does advertising in the contract, old to incorporate in the departures of the contests of public work, of urbanization, of building criteria of creativity, of functionality, of quality, that will be evaluateable for a juror. Likewise, the project also seeks for young people, for the promotion of those young people entitled, in the framework of policies of promotion to entrepreneurship and occupation. So, too, you bet on the formation of the citizenry in the knowledge of architecture, which is also basic in the hour of being able to bring forward the future of our country, and, therefore, to improve, also, the construction and identity of our villas. And let me point out, as the Councillor has said, that this will be the first law for what he does to the State, for what he does to an architecture law, but he is also one of the pioneers around us. Only France is a little more advanced than we are, and so, once more, Catalonia we are again pioneers for what it makes lawmaking. We know that this project had caused certain discomfort or fear in some professional colleges, and we want to express that this is far from what the government wanted at the time and also wanted this parliamentary group. It is not just a law addressed to architecture, to the sector of the College of Architects, but it is thought of in the architectural process, and so it was thought from a principle. So, regardless of what you're doing, we go ahead and believe that all the different professions that can participate or become part of this architectural process must be part of this project. And so, gathering and answering what was expressed in the different interventions that preceded me, we put a stop to it at the time – the Councillor said this – so that we could reflect, so that we could reach more consensus with all the professional colleges, not just with the parliamentary groups, but with all the professional sectors involved. And that is what we have done, Mr Sanz, is to reach consensus, and therefore to bring a law here..., not to start again from the principle, because that would mean a time that is not necessary for us, bearing in mind that we arrive at agreements with many of the professional colleges, and, therefore, what we need today is to continue this consensus with the different parliamentary groups, which is what we are opening up to. That is why, beyond the last few weeks, the same councillor, the Director General has made a task with all the professional colleges, and this must be acknowledged, because there has been a task from one to one power to work together, so that we can see what they were asking of us, what it is that we could help to enrich this law, and that is what we have done, and so today we, together with the parliamentary group, are thinking about providing the best that we would expect to have a text with the trust of all. And, in this sense, I also thank Member Hortênsia Grau who at the time withdrew her speech to the totality, I thank her for her confidence, with the will, like a parliamentary group, to work folded so as to arrive at a law that we all feel our own and that counts on the maximum consent. Therefore, we have incorporated those ideas that we have been agreeing with the different professional colleges so as to improve this process. I, therefore, propose, already, improvements in terminology, especially incorporating explicit references to the inclusion of various professions. We propose to add to the preamble, expressly, the terms "architecture, technical architecture, engineering, technical engineering, sociology, ecology, geography, advocacy so that everyone feels well represented in this law. It will be explained to the preamble that the law does not affect or modify in any case the reservation of professional activities provided for in the Law ordering the building. It will also respond to the requirements of the Catalan Competition Authority, clarifying the scope of application of the law, circumscribing it to what is the scope of our country, therefore, to the Catalan administrations, which will be obliged to its compliment. The report of the consulting bodies of architectural quality will only be linked when the planning expressly prevails, and therefore, as we are talking about urban planning, this requirement will have already counted, also, with a transparent process, with a participatory process. And on the other hand, they have also relieved themselves of the need to obtain reports, expel those smaller works or those of a structural nature. In addition, there will be improvements in the definition of contracting methods, without changing the concept or the experience, and also in the application of the engineering collection, in this case, which will allow the accreditation of technical solvency to be extended. Therefore, we will count, too..., as for the professionals who make up the jurors and the expert committees, we also believe that we should open it, and therefore, more to more of the professional colleges, their own scholarships, we will also open it to those professional associations provided for in the corresponding legislation. Therefore, from our group we are open, as I said, to everything they propose to us if in this way we can get to make a law that gets richer, which counts on the majority of the consensus of this parliamentary chamber, because all folds we can feel our own. We think we can get there, we can take this step. We believe that it is important to count on this Law of Architecture, a law that supposes us to take a step further, especially in the field of quality, allows us to advance further, allows us to give this feeling that at some point, to which we are also on the other side, in my case as the director of Urbanism, we would also very well have a tool that can give us this relevancy for what it does to quality, at the time of being able to carry out the projects, and therefore it is important and we want to today carry this law and give it to it. I'm done. Therefore, we believe that this law is important in many respects, certainly because the fruit of the moment we are living or that we have lived has been prioritized in a way that increases what are economic aspects in front of quality. And we believe that it is necessary to have this quality and that these material questions do not end up determining so much the architectural proposals so as to prioritize this quality, as the Councillor said, right? : « Vetllar for those future generations. And I finish, reiterating the good work of Councillor Rull, Director Serra, of all his team, who has been working together, of the hand above all of the College of Architects, and also of Councillor Vila, with whom this project begins the previous legislature. I once again thank all the parliamentary groups for their trust and I trust that, in the long run of the parliamentary process that we are starting today, we are making every request for this law, which you suppose will be better than ever before for all the architectural processes in our country's villas. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.170.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As there is no paper presented, the Architecture Law Project continues its processing. [[Draft Law on Urgent Changes in Tax Matters]] [[200-00011/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is the proposal for a single reading of the Tax Urgent Changes Bill. In accordance with Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure, and on a proposal from the Government, processing for one reading has been requested, so it is proposed to the House that the bill be submitted for one reading. Next, we will vote for the single reading of the Tax Urgent Changes Bill. Call it a vote. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.171.0	Because, according to the Rules of Procedure, the plenary has to place its position, it has to vote, and I want to explain the position of our group. And I think some other groups too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.172.0	Would you like to explain the sentiment of the vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.173.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.174.0	Explain. [[Pause.]] Mr. Coscubiela, you can go to the chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.175.0	Yeah, yeah, perfect. Thank you, Madam President. Well, our group, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we express our opposition to the single reading of this bill because we believe that it does not meet the requirements of simplicity provided for in Rule 135 of the Rules, and that we also think that in this way, with the single reading, parliamentary debate is being avoided, but above all the best is being avoided by the groups of this bill. Besides, everything points out that it's not a punctual fact. I would like to remind you that the other day, at the Board of Spokesmen, the last four bills submitted to the Government were presented as single-reading bills, which I would like to say that we are before, I fear, a certain strategy on the part of the Government to prevent this Parliament from playing its role. Let me tell you that at a time when Parliament is claiming its function and, at the very least, that we are defending it in front of the Constitutional Court, upholding the legal principle of the judge in office, from our work, it is not surprising that the same government is – and when the Bureau so agrees – that limits this function of Parliament. The Rules provide for the single reading assumptions, which are different from those of the urgent procedure, for very exceptional situations, and for the Government to present us with the next four drafts of the single reading law which state that we are faced with an important problem. We could already see this morning that, in addition, one of these drafts of the law that was going to be processed for a single reading was the Habitat Law Project. Fortunately, Parliament's constituents gave their counter-opinion, and fortunately the common sense of the President of this Parliament heard it and, after the opinion of the members of the Bureau, decided to reject, the Bureau, the single reading of the Housing Bill and at the same time – that this bill is processed in an urgent way. That's the same thing he could do, and he's still asking the government, represented by his vice president, to think about it. If what is needed is urgency, there are parliamentary mechanisms to achieve urgency, but an urgency that does not avoid the possibility of parliamentary groups to do research and improve their draft law, the more it takes into account that it has a certain complexity, from this point of view. The contrary would lead us to think that we are not before a will to accelerate or improve the functioning of this chamber, but rather a clear will to prevent the Parliament of Catalonia from playing its role as the true legislature of this country. I just said one question: to lay down these bills in terms of read-only is, to practice, the same as to lay them as to decrees; with a difference, that the decree then, if it is to be, can be dealt with as to draft law, and when it is done in read-only this possibility disappears. Mr Junqueras, ask you that, in order to enhance the value of this Parliament, in order to be able to have more authority to defend it before the Spanish State and before the Constitutional Court, you accept at this time to withdraw the single reading petition and give us the opportunity to discuss it in depth. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.176.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.177.0	Yes, in the same sense that Mr. Coscubiela, too, to ask...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.178.0	Explain the sentiment of the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.179.0	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.180.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.181.0	Well, on the part of the Citizens' Group we adhere to the general legal-political reasonings expressed by Mr Coscubiela to ask that this law not be dealt with through the single reading procedure. We believe that, with regard to the issue of the transfer of data provided for in this law, it affects the fundamental rights of citizens by institutions which have not been attributed by law to the possibility of handling this data of citizens, and therefore to legislate in a way, let us say, through the single reading, that it robs this Parliament, the representatives of citizens, of the possibility of discussing in depth aspects that are very important. And as Mr Coscubiela has said, Mr Coscubiela, also in this respect we think that on the part of the Government it would almost amount to legislating by decree law, but with the disadvantage that the decree law, while then it can be remedied in a later processing, here we would be left with a law that has not been sufficiently debated at all. Therefore, we oppose its single-reading processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.182.0	Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.183.0	Also, about the one-time reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.184.0	Okay. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.185.0	Thank you. Well, it seems that Mr. Coscubiela and Mr. Carrizosa have also explained it, but we also wanted to add something to it. Look, you've made these proposals that today you're reading for us in June, and if you really had so much urgency, it was so important to modify and approve these small modifications that you make to some taxes and some other law, in concrete terms, in five, why didn't you submit it before? Why didn't they introduce him in June or July? We only have an answer for this, which is that you do not want the debate; you do not want the debate above all in the field of fiscal policy, as we were able to see yesterday, Vice President. Because if you wanted to debate it, because if you thought that this was so urgent and so important, what you would have done was bring it here with a bill of law, with the most urgent procedures, and there would have been, at least, a certain debate, certainly some input from parliamentary groups to improve it. But what we believe is that you don't want to do this; you don't want to get into the background of fiscal policy; you don't want to get into the background of the estate tax debate, for example, or the estate tax. Therefore, he brings it to the fore, with a single reading because we have no possibility, beyond intervening for two minutes, of changing things. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of this single reading, because what we believe is that it stores other objectives, other intentions, which we do not share.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.187.0	Yes, President; in the same vein, to explain our intention to vote at this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.188.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.189.0	Our vote here will be negative, and we would like to see it interpreted not only as a no to the processing of this single-reading bill, but as an opportunity for the Vice-President of the Government, Vice-President Junqueras, because it corrects and because it withdraws this draft law today, now, before entering the debate, and gives the opportunity, therefore, to everyone to enter the debate of this, because this is not a draft law, as stated in Rule 135 of the Rules, which allows for the processing of one-reading if the simplicity and nature of the matter permits or advises it, but it is a draft law that allows to modify, not least, that five-reading. And I think that makes it perfectly possible to understand that what the government has to do, if it wants a change of this size, is to allow dialogue and debate with parliamentary groups. Therefore, in the name of democracy and the Catalan People's Parliamentary Group, we ask the Vice-President to withdraw this project and that it is transmitted by ordinary means – if he wishes, of urgency, even so – in order to guarantee the debate and the necessary dialogue in this chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. I am sure that, in this vote, Mrs Esther Niubó has the delegated vote in the spokesman of her group, Mrs Eva Granados, and that Mrs Ángels Martínez has the delegated vote in the spokesman of her group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. We will therefore vote for the proposal for a single reading of the Tax Law on Urgent Changes. The vote begins. The proposal for a single reading of the Tax Urgent Amendments Bill was approved by 68 votes to 58, with no abstentions. As the single reading has been given, we shall now proceed to the debate, in accordance with the standards established for the totality, and, at the same time, the conjunction of the bill will be submitted to a single vote. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Economy and History. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please leave in a hurry and be quiet so we can continue processing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.191.0	Good afternoon. I take advantage of them coming out, because I'm useful in the first reflection around the defense of this bill. A while ago, hearing the spokespersons of some parliamentary groups speak, it seemed that this was the most important law of this legislature, and I see that the interest they have in this law runs out for a while they felt to speak for themselves, and they have no interest in feeling it on the part of the government, which seems to me to place the debate in the nearby place. In any case, also, second place, immediately, proceed to aggravate, together with the deputies, the fact that the law can be dealt with in one reading. And we will see, when we explain it, that many of the pre-emptions that seemed to have been made, therefore, were clearly unjustified, especially by groups that did not have an obstacle to dealing with the modification of an article of the Spanish Constitution for a single reading as 135 in a single night's sleep, and, in change, to protect the assets of disabled persons by law it seems that they do not want to do so or that they tend to expand the processing, when speaking of an absolutely basic protection for people, I insist that, by law, they have been unable – certainly, in application of state legislation–, and that it is intended, quite simply, to make its adaptation in the Civil Code, to a large extent. Therefore, I am beginning to expose the law, this draft law, which reverses this follow-up of tax measures, which were effectively incorporated into the draft law on tax, administrative and financial measures of the public sector for the year 2016, which went down in parliamentary processing. The adoption of these measures, selected from among those that included the tax bill, would have to come into force as soon as possible – some reason has just given you a moment ago – at its content and purpose, such as, for example, the protection of the assets of persons with disabilities, declared to be incapacitated by the law. It is about very specific, very concrete, technical modifications that improve the taxes affected and control the fight against fraud. In concrete terms, this law contains only five articles, five, five: one, two, three, four and five articles. The first refers to the tax on the emission of nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere produced by commercial aviation; the second, to a modification of assets protected by legal incapacity in the taxation of inheritances and donations; the third, to the same in the taxation of assets; the fourth, on the taxation of assets and documented legal acts, and the fifth, finally, on the sub-administration of tax data in relation to the fight against fraud – it seems that there are no people in a hurry to make sure. The first of these articles, which refers to the emission of nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere by commercial aviation. In the year 2014 the Government of Catalonia, using the tax powers that binds it to the current regulations and from the recommendations of the European Union on the need to adopt taxes of environmental character, created a tax on the emission of nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere produced for commercial aviation. At times, this imposition also gives an answer to the Law of Protection of the atmospheric environment, which establishes that the Government must establish an action plan for those areas declared to be of special protection, characterized to be part of the territory where the quality levels of the area are exceeded. In Catalonia it only affects two airports: Barcelona - El Prat and Sabadell, which are between this special protection zone of the atmosphere, but the airport of Sabadell remains excluded because it does not carry out commercial transit operations; therefore, it only affects the airport of Barcelona - el Prat. The object of the tax is to charge the polluting emissions of nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere produced by the commercial aviation of passengers during the landing and flooding cycles, because of the risk to public health caused by the poor quality of the air in the municipalities that are between these special protection zones. Thus, this tax is made up of double standards: taking into account the principles of environmental taxation, of a band, it seeks to guide the behaviour of economic agents affected by internalisation, the internalisation of unintended costs and of negative externalities generated in their activities with the objective of contributing to the improvement and preservation of the environment; on the other hand, the tax is also an instrument of economic policy, and in this sense it cannot be obvious that it also contributes to a fiscal purpose, since additional inputs will be obtained that will allow to increase, in part, public expenditure and investment in environmental matters and, in general, in policies for the promotion of preservation and the improvement of the quality of the environment. The tax, created in 2014, as we said a while ago, came into force in 2015; it was first settled in 2016, with a redemption value of 2,6_million euros. The IATA, the International Air Transport Association, requested a follow-up of modifications before the European Union, and in this sense it is proceeding to these modifications, which have been approved by the European Commission. The first is that aircraft carrying out non-passenger flights, but also cargo flights, are also subject to the nitrogen oxide emissions tax. The second is the elimination of the top of the twenty-thousand flights made during a tax period. There was a top that established that companies operating more than twenty thousand flights in the tax period were excluded from paying this tax. It's suppressing this topall. It modifies the tax type, so that it is passed from two tax types, one general and one reduced, to a single tax type, from 2.5_euros per kilogram of nitrogen oxides emitted. Therefore, summarizing this first point of this law, the modifications consist in extending the taxable fact of air transport of goods, eliminating the topall of the taxable base of twenty-thousand flights and establishing a single type of tax. First article of this law. Second – they see it's still shorter. For the tax on assets, the change that is introduced allows the expected tax benefits for the protected assets of persons with disabilities who are in agreement with state legislation to be applied to protected assets that are in agreement with the Catalan civil law. The raison d'être of this change is, therefore, to eliminate the weight that is produced to the detriment of the assets constituted according to the Catalan Civil Code. I insist: protected heritage of people with disabilities. The second article of this law. The third refers to the tax on estates and donations, and also to the change that is introduced, which allows the expected tax benefits for protected assets of disabilities that are in accordance with state law to also apply to protected assets that are in agreement with the Catalan civil law. This tax also includes, again, the extension of the deadline until 31 December 2017, in order to be able to apply the exceptional two-year adjournment granted to the management agencies of the Tax Administration in cases of lack of liquidity of the inheritance. It is a measure that adds more time to taxpayers in order to satisfy the import of the tax in those cases where the inheritance is difficult to liquidate. This is the third article of the law. The fourth, relating to the tax on capital transfers and documented legal acts. In relation to the best introduced in this tax, a change in the manner of documented legal acts is established that records the public record of separation and divorce and of stable couple extinction, with the aim of incentivizing these processes to be carried out more by the notary way and thus achieving decongestion of the lawsuits. In concrete terms, there is a one-hundred-per-cent increase in the tax share of documented legal acts that records public writings of separation or divorce of mutual agreement and termination of mutual agreement of the stable pair. The state law that regulates it, on the 15/2015, of July 2, of the voluntary jurisdiction, modifies, among others, articles 82 and following of the Civil Code and allows that mediating public writing is able to formalize separations and divorces. The measure seeks to avoid a comparative burden of respect for those separations and divorces that are formalized by court rulings, not subject to the manner of documented legal acts. And this is the fourth article of the law. The fifth refers to the sub-administration of tax data, because the law wants to complete the regulation of the communication of these data obtained for tax administrations to the tax agency, with the aim of achieving a better compliment of the tax competitions, in this case, also from the Government of Catalonia and, at the same time, to detect possible tax incompliments and to promote the fight against fraud. It is intended to give legal employment to the communication of data with tax transcendence obtained by the deputies, the district councils, in case in the deputies and the district councils obtain this information of the assemblies as a result of a commission of actions, such as the delegation of competitions, management tasks or other forms of collaboration. It is, therefore, a measure that facilitates the transfer of information between administrations, which allows it to improve its control and avoid tax fraud. This is the fifth and last article of this law, or of this project, that I insist that before it seemed that you were present as if it were a huge act that wanted to store who knows what in this Parliament. Listen, more clearly, to the water; almost impossible. In conclusion, therefore, the Government believes that these measures, which are markedly technical, as I believe they have been extensively demonstrated in this intervention, are also positive measures of markedly technical and positive character – protection of the assets of disabled people, etc. – which are faced in the line of deepening environmental taxation, making a little more fair the modified taxes and increasing the resources for fighting against tax fraud. As small, technical and positive changes, as I hope have been demonstrated in the intervention, we consider this House to be the opportunity for these measures to be valid as quickly as possible, and for all this we ask the various parliamentary groups that are well advised to vote in favour of this bill that we have just presented to them. I hope that there were doubts that seemed to be at the beginning of the debate, and if that is the case, then I hope to count on the favourable vote of all the groups, because it is very difficult, I seem, not to get it, this favourable vote of all the groups, in these five articles. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.192.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. We shall then proceed to the turn of speeches by the different parliamentary groups to determine their position. In the first place, will speak Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.193.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, and ladies and gentlemen. We are being presented with a bill on urgent changes in tax matters. We are presented with five articles that, if we analyze them, have nothing urgent. See, on the tax on emissions of nitrogen oxide produced by aviation, let me tell you that what you are trying to do is to patch up the cod approved in 2014 and that it has been shown to be contrary to Community law, because the discrimination it established in fact meant aid contrary to the European Treaties. That has been corrected, but they continue to do the wrong thing, they continue to record the aircraft model instead of what is most relevant from the point of view of pollution, which is the type of engine. Not all models have the same engine, and it is the engines that determine the pollution, not the models. But you're still wrong – you're still wrong. Look, the aircraft model catalogues to which the law refers are incomplete – they are incomplete, yes – and do not include all those that exist. And if we go on with the pifias, then I'm going to tell you one more about this. It turns out that in the preamble you yourselves recognise that what is at issue is that we had an earlier law which was a state aid contrary to Union law, and, therefore, what is set out in that wording is precisely that there are at present a lot of companies that are coming forward and that are going to raise precisely the complaint of the tax and that you have, eh? the Generalitat has to return the taxes collected so far. I know how well you do it. Mr. Vice President, who advises you? – Who advises you? It's just, really, it's amazing. Well, then, then, then, you either set us up or you try to set us up to have that, how are we going to refuse to improve the taxation of assets protected from disabilities? Of course not. But it's just that you – you – have your trap, and now I'm going to explain it to you, look, I'm going to explain it to you. Look, I've looked at the scope of this law, and the scope of this law is minimal—minimum—almost irrelevant—almost irrelevant. Look, if we look at the statistics on tax benefits to disability, it turns out that the average contributions are 251.45_euro – 251.45_euro. Do you know what's going on? That these contributions no longer tax corporation tax; therefore, the real reason is not to favour most of the assets of the disabled, no, no. Here what is hidden, because that also tells us the statistics, is that there are contributions that rise much more when the rents are greater than sixty_ thousand. So... sixty thousand euros, of course. And then the question that arises automatically..., when you see this reality, says: "Who do we want to benefit from this measure, who do we want to benefit? And the answer is obvious: rents of more than sixty thousand euros, i.e., high or very high rents. This Is So [[applause]] – this is so –, this cover up, you! Well, let's see, look, as for the write-off bonuses of separation and divorce and stable couple extinction, man, so, look, you, we are absolutely..., we fully agree that this is a basic measure that has all the logic of the world – it has all the logic of the world. But, Mr Vice-President, the wording – the wording – is technically deficient – is deficient. And I'm going to put it on you... Look, you've worked hard to set up a hundred-per-cent bonus, and, of course, you may not know that setting up a hundred-per-cent bonus is like operating an exemption, and then here, then, there's a chance that you'll have a challenge. It would have been as simple – as simple – as establishing a type of zero_per_cent tax; you would have avoided that. Technically it's very unfortunate that at this point I have to tell you all this, huh? What do you think? It is also true that perhaps you are looking for confrontation, that, to continue victimizing yourself, that perhaps in this you are the champions. [[Some applause.]] Well, finally, as for the supply of tax data, look, this is the chestnut truce, huh? , legal that they have brought us, is a... They want the deputies to hand over to the Tax Agency of Catalonia the information they have about the taxpayers. The problem, the big problem is that those data don't belong to the deputies. In such a way that you intend to get by force – by force, huh? – what they don't get on a voluntary basis. Yes, yes, look, look, you, on your way, this labyrinth, which we have told you before, so it turns out you don't repair in violation of rights, huh? , fundamentals of people. And it turns out that those rights are protected by the Organic Data Protection Act, that you are willing even to jump into anger. Well, then, and summarizing, we are before a bill that intends to urgently cover what is not. We are faced with a bill that is technically very deficient – very deficient –, I have already set a few examples and could put more to it: I could tell you that they do not even recognize that it is a type reform..., that it is also contrary to Article 48 of the LOFCA, that they do not even say that it must be an autonomous reform. So... I could say more, but anyway... with that. We are therefore faced with a technically very poor bill and a bill that goes beyond fundamental rights. Naturally, and as a result, Mr Vice-President, the only thing you can expect from Citizens is a vote against, a vote against as a house. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.194.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.195.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... well, so, I'm a tough guy, huh? Vice President, why did you come here today, this late, here, isn't it? To do a quick processing, waiting for the positive vote of all the groups, and I know hard, but it won't find this; I know hard, but it won't find this because in the background, I don't know if they're trying to trick us, but, come on, I don't think that's going to be that. Look, I have two minutes, I don't have much time, and I'd like to say five things to him, and so I'm going to try to be concrete in these five things. Miri, to begin with, we find ourselves here before this preliminary bill, because you were unable to approve the Bill of Presumptives and the Bill of Fiscal and Financial Measures Bill presented to us in May. Their responsibility was to bring these bills to Parliament and their irresponsibility – as we said – was not to be guaranteed approval of these two laws in Parliament. How could they not approve of this, today they bring us into one reading, quickly, in an urgent way..., without being able to make a debate as it would play, be and quiet, of such important issues... Why are you talking about technical things? No, you are taxing, and therefore in this Parliament, that we have spoken so many times and have said so many times that we would like to make a substantive debate on fiscal policy, you want to go beyond the point that they are technical changes. Home, so, miri, no. We believe, as I said before, that you didn't do it because you don't want to get into the background. In fact, yesterday we saw with the answers he gave us to the Socialist Group on fiscal policy: he did not want to answer us, because he does not want to go into the debate. Because in our background, and here I take the line of what Mr Espinosa said, what we believe is that you do not want to change taxes because you do not want to ask for more effort to which you have more; because you do not want to lower taxes to the middle classes and workers, who are the ones who have been patenting the crisis for a longer time and are living serious times and difficulties; because you do not want to touch the fiscal policy that the Government of the Generality kept for more than five years. For this reason, in the accounts of presenting these small modifications which in technical terms, in the accounts of presenting them in July with a bill of law, with urgent procedures, which you would have allowed us to debate, you would have held it – it holds, it holds –, it does not give priority, because in the Bureau of Parliament or in the Board of Spokesmen you would have given priority to this preliminary draft of the law; it could have been prioritised and, therefore, we could have debated it in July. It doesn't, and the door today asking us for responsibility, which is what its government always does, and we approve of these little technical changes that will help improve the lives of people and Catalans. So, miri, listen'm, no. You don't..., we think he wasn't responsible, again, he could have done what he was playing, that it was to have introduced him long before and to have allowed a certain debate and some certainly contributions. But he doesn't want contributions, he doesn't want debate, he doesn't want dialogue, he doesn't want appearances... And that, we, therefore, cannot harvest it. And when I told him that you don't want to debate funds... because of the five articles that you say that it is changed, there are four on taxes, there are four that refer to taxes, that we would like to enter the fund debate... You said: "The inheritance tax... I understand that you don't want to do it, already made it very clear to us yesterday, he said that the inheritance tax was a tax that was now well balanced, that before it was not. Look, Mr. Junqueras..., and what he does with this change is what he says, that it's protecting..., that it's modifying or improving the protected assets of the disabled. Last year, according to his memoir, there were twenty-two self-liquidations of this type of heritage; important, huh? , for the twenty-two; but, in the end, we are here retouching something very small. What we'd like to talk to is... we'd love to talk to you about the tax. What happens is that you don't want to, he told us yesterday. I, escort'm, « balanced..., tax on estates. If I am a single of thirty years – single, it is equal – and hereto benefits worth 800,000_euros and the value of the habitual residence of the deceased was 200,000, in Catalonia paid 9,796,8_euros; 9,000, get us 800,000. Very well-balanced, huh? I, in exchange, to Asturias... – I don't put other... – to Asturias they pay 162,618,9. Sounds fairer to me. The one who rep 800.000_euros of an inheritance that paid 162,000, or 89,000, like Castella i Lleó ; or 82,000, like Murcia. This is where 9796.8 is paid. Does that seem balanced to you, Mr. Junqueras? To a person called the left, like you? So, not us. And we wouldn't just want to debate this change in relation to the protected assets, we'd like to get into the estate tax fund, and you won't let us. And we'd like to go deeper into the heritage tax, which you here only make a small modification on the protected heritage. So, listen to me, no, it's that we want to talk about everything, and you don't leave us, and we think it's unique reading that's why. Then he talks about another tax: the tax on capital transfers and documented legal acts. Listen to me, you were already in the tax and finance bill talking about three bonuses. You just mentioned divorces today to obviously encourage divorce by notarial means, and therefore decongest justices. We agree. But it is that in his bill that presented the month of May there were three, of course to improve: this, the constitution by regulation of horizontal property, which would be, for example, industrial polygons and would allow to make community of industrial polygon owners, that many in Catalonia live very complicated times, would allow to generate a statutori with rights and dues, pay a few taxes, manage in a more efficient way... This has been forgotten in this preliminary draft that presents us today. Why? Wasn't that a good proposal, June? Why isn't it now? Why did he forget? There was a third proposal for bonuses in this tax that was oblivious, which was the subrogation of loan or credit mortgage tied to sections of cooperative credit. It was a good proposition. It seemed to us that it would substantially improve the financial conditions of those who hold cooperative credits. They've forgotten it, too. So, listen to me, it seems strange to us, because if you take that dispatch and the five-month door later for one reading because it's so important, why do you forget these two assumptions? It makes us suspicious. And I'll tell you something else, too. This little modification that you said today was a transposition, wasn't it? , or it was an adaptation of a law that was approved in July 2015. I mean, we've had time, too, to change it, right? Okay. We come more than a year later to make this change. So, honestly, we don't know why they changed their minds, we don't know why these two bonuses, which seemed interesting to us and which you defended in your explanation in that dispatch, aren't there today. And the last change they make, that doesn't refer to taxes, that's about tax data. Look, we're very suspicious of each other. It makes us suspect that you're carrying us in one reading a modification of such an important subject. Which is what you're asking... man, tributes to the district councils and the deputies, to the assemblies. That is to say, you ask taxpayers' tax data to the district councils and to the deputies, when tax data are not of them, they are of the joints. The joints are in charge of the administration of taxes to the parliament or the local council, but they don't have..., they don't have to have this authority to give data to a third party, which is what you say this change to this point. So, we believe that this – this – would only be worth looking at, discussing and asking for reports, yes. It seems to me that asking the district council and the parliament, which is a second-degree administration, which does not have the responsibility to have these tax data, seems to us that, frankly, in one reading, placed here, with five technical modifications, this, as a technician, does not have anything to do with it. That, I think, has a strong... [[Funnel veils]] , yes..., and a very important political background that we do not think we can approve, here, with five technical modifications, as you say, and with two minutes of debate. Therefore, we know very hard, but we cannot approve this preliminary draft and our vote will not be. The day that you really want to discuss fiscal policy, that we can get into the taxes that you are changing today, as you say, technically, so that day, we'll talk about it. But the truth, in politics, there are very few technical things; in fact, I would say that there is no technical. In political fem politi cal. And the fact that you're saying this is already political, that you don't want to change anything at all, let's change these things and water..., to the law of measures, if you want, to change some others, but a debate at once, a process as it does, in Parliament, with poise, in what we can, in reality, debate at once the taxes, you don't want it. And that's why, so today we find this unique reading. And one last thing: when we change taxes, we understand that it's to push or lower tickets. The taxes, in the end, are an instrument that we have to get more tickets and that these tickets allow us to make social policies, education, health care – I told you yesterday. You know how many more tickets... - You say that, huh? In your memory, I didn't make it up myself, do you know how many more tickets we'll have with these little technical changes? Three hundred and ninety-five thousand euros. It's not a big increase. We believe that it could... not that it could, that there is much more margin and that there could be-there, here, much more tickets than we're being set up. Therefore, totally insufficient his proposals, totally insufficient for the moments we live. And I, in fact, ask you to make a reform of the tax system for..., not to collect 395,000 euros more, to collect 600, 700 or 800 million euros. You know that they have margin, what happens is that you also need to know why they don't change taxes, why they don't do or don't demand a greater effort from those they have most. Someday they'll have to explain. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He didn't explain it to us yesterday, Mr. Junqueras. He did not want to explain it to us yesterday, but one day they will have to explain it, because really the changes they make, taking into account the demands and needs of society and in this country, make a little laugh. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.196.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr. Vice President, the government is presenting us with a draft law, apparently harmless, apparently purely technical, which involves the reform, although partial, of four tax figures, and also a reform of some elements of tax management. But neither in the memory of the bill, nor you today, have you been able to justify enough why it presents these and not the combination of the things that got stuck in the law accompanying the assumptions of 2016. But not only that, you have not been able to explain to us today why this has to be dealt with inexorably in one reading. Fix 'you': the memory, and you sure know it, is unable to quantify the economic impact that three of these measures will have on the Catalan heritage – is unable to quantify it. If you ask yourself something with this urgency – which is not urgent, then I'll try to explain why I think it's something else – and you can't even quantify it. That it's not urgent is pretty obvious. Listen, you know that, for example, the modification that they plant with the tax on nitrogen oxide emission to the atmosphere for aviation is expected to come into force the 1st generation of 2017 and the impact recaptator, 2018. What, then, prevents it from proceeding with..., in an orderly, urgent manner, but not with a single reading? I am giving them back all these days, to the head and, after listening to it, today, to you, with this certainty that it always uses, I have come to a conclusion: the only explanation that you can have because this can be discussed in one reading is that you do not get to the head that no one can improve on what you do. How is it possible for anyone to think that it is possible to improve in parliamentary proceedings something that Vice President Junqueras does? It's impossible! Therefore, with a unique reading. It's the only thing that, yes, I would like to think about, because I believe that of the rigorous interventions that have taken place until now – I will try not to lower the level – it has become manifest that there is more girl than you raise. Look, we're going to say it again: in fiscal matters, the only thing that is technical is the computer programs of the income statement and, above all, the programs that have tax evaders and their advisors to get tax elected. It's the only..., it's the only tech there is. Everything else has politics and ideology behind it. And your tea, too, and some things we can share, but some other things we can't. And I'm telling you, our group has different opinions about some of the things that it raises. And if you allow us to debate it in an orderly manner, we would tell you what we agree on, what we can do better – if you believe that we can improve the rest of the humans – and then, from that perspective, we could argue, and in the end, we could come up with a good thing. Now, all right, maybe, you, it's that you're getting used to treating your policy in the way that I do one thing and the others only have an opportunity: signing a blank check or being denounced as responsible for all the evils of humanity. He's tried it once, and I'm afraid he's taking this thing for granted. Come on, come on, come on, come on, See, reforming the tax on the emission of nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere? We agree. I believe that some of the observations that have been made on some technical requirements on the part of Ciutadans's spokesman should be taken into account. But I say it again – I say it again –: we agree, but this is expected because the 1st generation of 2017 comes into force, with recaptatory effects in 2018. What would it cost you to accept a certain debate? At last, listen to the lords of Ciutadans, who I think have some argument to make. Second question. With regard to the inheritance and donation levy, the possibility of an extension of up to two years to settle a tax when it comes to the inheritance of assets and liquids that cannot be realized. We agree, but we do not agree that this is limits to those heredities until 31 December 2017. Why? Because this reality of people who reprimand an inheritance, and liquid, and who have difficulties paying is not strictly linked to the economic crisis, which you so raise. It can be perfectly without economic crisis. It always passes. We are willing to accept with you that this two-year settlement is a permanent issue of this imposition. Because all that's important is that the tax agency is recaptured. And if I have to postpone the payment of this tax for two years, it's done. But you don't give us the opportunity to improve your work, no, because your work is immeasurable and you have shown it today with your intervention. We insist very much on this issue, the same with regard to the issue of asset tax and the enhancement of taxpayers' protected assets with disabilities. We agree with an idea, with philosophy. But Ciutan's spokesman has already pointed one thing at him: yes! This bonus has to be for all taxpayers, regardless of who their assets are or who their tickets are? So, no. We would like to be able to pass a few coats of arms and allow those people who have a certain amount of assets and, moreover, it turns out that they have an obligation to do so, that they are not small assets, if they have a disability situation they can see 'benefits' but that we can also discriminate according to the assets that have this issue. It's a question, this is an ideological one, Mr. Junqueras, you have to accept me, right? So, no. You're the one reading that prevents me from making this change. The same is true of the 100_per_cent increase in the shares of the tax of documented legal acts, when it is a matter of public writing to put at the same level the cases that are for public writings that it does for justice in cases of mutual agreement of spouses and couples. We agree to see it. Everyone? So, I don't know, I want to discuss it with you, whether it's everybody's or not. Why? Because what for some citizens are tax benefits, for the Catalan heritage are minority entrances. And we want to know if this has a redistributive function, yes or no. And you don't allow us with this unique reading layout. I've explained enough to you why we can talk to you if you want to, but in a different way, what we'll never accept is that you're going to be signing blanks tomorrow? It's that there's a lot of arguments why we can make this better. Then you can say that they do not accept ours, but at least they give the opportunity to plant them. Then there is the subject of the tax agency. Some things have been said, but let me tell you that, from the point of view of the tax agency, it is very incomprehensible that you have segregated this question from here and, for example, you have not placed it in the apartment of the tax code that you are planting tomorrow in this room. We don't understand it, and that's confusing to us, like everything that refers to the tax agency. You have come to recognize that the government to which you have given support for a long time, the previous government, the government of the best, has had no development of the tax agency, until Catalonia today has the level of development of the most inefficient tax agency of all the autonomous communities. While here it was claimed that we did not have fiscal powers, it turned out that we raised it, we gave the executive powers to the Spanish tax agency, and we did so while we complained that we did not have powers. And so absolutely everything. That's why – that's why – we want to discuss this issue. Tomorrow we will have the opportunity, too, to discuss the issue of the tax code of Catalonia. But, look, look, look, if these things are not technical, which you will have to explain to us tomorrow, for example, why a good part of the law's proposal that they will present to us tomorrow is not written for Juntes for the Yes or the CUP, and is not written for the same government: it is written, practically, literally, of the Deloitte and Pricewaterhouse reports – remember, Mr. Mas? – a friend of the taxpayers, of the friends of the entrepreneurs, but now of the taxpayers. And you will have to explain to us why you give them the ability to direct the tax agency strategy to tax advisors in this country. This, really, is a technical issue that you don't include in this law, but it's tomorrow... and that has the same philosophy as the tax agency? So the truth is, no. And all these things we'd like to discuss. We're very afraid that our friend and partner Alicia Romero is right again, when she says that in the background you put this here because what she wants is to avoid the discussion of the background on fiscal policy. And let me tell you something, Mr. Junqueras: they don't keep saying that Catalans, so generically, we pay a lot of taxes, because it's not true, and they don't keep telling you that the type of IRPF is a high type of IRPF, because it's not true. I want to give you two examples, which you sure know. In Catalonia, for tickets of 20,000_euros– 20,000_euros a year – the average type is already in 12.39, much above what is in Extremadura, which is 11.61. That's what happens when you turn them down. In change, in the high yields– 180,000_euros of annual revenue–, it turns out that Catalonia has the lowest average type, on 20.31, when in Extremadura, which are not precisely rich from this point of view, has on 21.78_per_cent. Or let us here punish those who have EUR 20,000 and reward those who have EUR 180,000. And you say that you don't want to touch it! I guess he won't say that this is a technical issue, because, of course... this has ideology too at the back. Of successions, we can also continue to speak to it, because you, who brings to us a reform of successions, must bring to us the reform of truth. It has fallen, from the year 2008, from 1,000_million to 350. But it's that you know that this year the recap of the estate tax is at a rate of 11_per_cent relative to the past year! And you, despite that, are not willing to touch this, Mr Junqueras. Of the 10,000_million tax reliefs made by Catalans, 1,200 correspond to Catalan legislation and, of these, 980 correspond to tax reliefs made by taxpayers with the tax on inheritance and donations. Is there no margin between 0 and 980 for reforming the estate tax? Miri, Mr Junqueras, no, we are not before a technical question, we are before a political question and of a very ideological, model country. If you want to talk about these things, let's talk about it. And maybe, most likely, we could come to terms with some things and not others. But, please, don't call us white. If there's anyone who wants to give it, they're all with their responsibility. In Catalonia Yes, you can, on no subject, not much less in the matter of presupposition and taxation, you will never have a white check, and I suppose you can hear that. I suppose you can hear that someone else's work can improve it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.198.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Enric Millo, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.199.0	Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs, Vice President Junqueras told us a while ago, when four groups of this chamber – four groups of this chamber – asked you to abandon this one-way reading and to open the debate with the groups, you said that surely... that we were in no hurry to talk about these important issues, you said, right? "But you are in no hurry. Don't rush, you say. Home, I'd say you're the one who doesn't have people in a hurry. You didn't have it in a hurry. You've been to the government for months, you've been to the government for years. If this was so important and so urgent, I could have brought it here since the month of generation, fever, March, April... it didn't bring it until the Bill of Tax and Finance. And he wore it. But then you voluntarily withdrew it, because the bill that went down was the one of assumptions, because the whole thing went down, and you didn't want it anymore, and you didn't even play in fiscal and financial measures. He could have put it down too; he didn't want it anymore. So, you're the one who's in no hurry here. What we don't know is why he's going with these presses now. And it has been shown with his presentation that the rush, therefore, do not know why it is, but urgency is not justified. I have made the Rules very clear, but you wanted to usurp the ability of parliamentary groups to enter into the analysis and debate of the government's proposals, you wanted to take it from us – you wanted to take it from us – you did not let us or submit papers, re, that is to say, take it or leave it. If you like it, well, and if not, then, like lentils, right? Home, I don't think that's justified in any way, do I? Because it's not a law of five articles, no, no: it's a law that modifies five laws. Home, say the things say his name, it's not the same! It's a law, bill of law, that they intend to modify five laws, five. Yeah, yeah, one small thing about each of them, but, man, if you want to do a tax debate, don't camouflage the debate with a question that sounds technical. No, that can't be done. If you want to change each of these five laws, let the rest of the parliamentary groups think about each of them, because it is possible, as Mr Coscubiela said a while ago, that we have some interesting idea that you can also value and consider it. Or is it that the only modification of these five laws that can be done is what you propose to us? No, no, No, no, Therefore, fixed's..., fixed 'if you have made a mistake, fixed 'if the error is large, that on such an important issue as that of the taxation it has managed to agree four groups of this Parliament that we do not defend the same in fiscal matter. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] We don't defend the same... no, no, no, absolutely. [[remorse of the voice]] - Absolutely. Yesterday you were accused of voting tax issues with the People's Party; no, some did not. But it's that on this subject, how we can't get into the analysis and debate of each of the laws that you want to change, so we can't debate it. But what's obvious is that there are four groups that hold different positions in fiscal matters... and this is where it's seen now, isn't it? And you will also see in some questions that I will now explain to you, that we do not defend the same, and therefore we will not vote for it except for the same reason as regards the content, but because you have done it very badly. You wanted to disguise a political tax debate as a technical issue, which, if you want to do, we do, but we do well, not this way, right? Besides, no, you know perfectly well that, if there really was an emergency, what I could do, because that law allows it... listen, make a decree law, and that would already be in effect, and then it'll come here and do the debate, we'll debate it, we'll validate it or not. But you, if you want..., or go on, do not come to us with the trap: "You will not vote against a bonus such as... Home... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh! Of course, but we already know that this is a trap, because there are five laws and we could agree with some of them, but you say to us: "Everything, O king. It's his style of dialogue, and we're used to it. Tot o re: 2012, fiscal pact or fiscal pact; 2014, consult the consultation; 2016, referendum referendum, and now, five, take it or leave it. Clearly, that's no way to talk, that's no way to do things, that's only when you're willing to do what? To impose. And you've gotten used to the tax, and the tax is the opposite of the dialect that other parliamentary groups have defended. And so, so, this is our position, isn't it? And we wouldn't vote, obviously, because, I'm telling you, in some of the questions we might have gotten into the debate and we might have agreed, sure, but others are obviously not, huh? And so, how do you force all of us, so the negative is guaranteed, right? Because the tax on the emission of nitrogen oxides, you know that when it was debated in this Parliament we already voted against it, because we disagreed with the existence of this tax in concrete terms. Now you see us with a concrete change to which the European Union obliges us. So, I mean, it's a debate... that this would be simple, sure, it would be simple, but it puts us in the package because we eat with potatoes. And, man, no, we don't think about eating with potatoes, no. Now, there's another very interesting one, which would have been the debate, isn't there? , about the inheritance and donation tax. Home, here our position is very well known; the position of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party in matters of inheritance and donation tax, which we have always been supporters of its suppression, or 99.9_per_cent bonus, according to the skills we have, is widely known. Certainly, coinciding with the extinct and "denominated Convergence and Union", which in its moment also defended this, also defended it. And until all of 2011 we're going to practically, to a significant extent, reduce it to a minimum. When? When the People's Party could influence, of course; then the Catalans paid less taxes. When the People's Party stops infusing in the Government of Catalonia and the Republican Left takes over Convergence and Union, Catalans pay taxes, come back, pay what they pay, right? And that's the reality, isn't it? But, of course, I want to say to you: you are talking here about a 90 percent reduction, such as... Miri, there is a report that I recommend to you – surely already the knower – about the 2016 Autonomy and Foreign Tax Panorama, which clearly explains that Catalonia is among the communities that it weighs most for donations between lives of parent groups I and II, right? And you literally say, huh? "Groups I and II set the 99_per-cent bonus in Madrid, 99.9_per-cent bonus in the Canary Islands and Extremadura 99_per-cent bonus in Madrid, 99.9_per-cent bonus in the Canary Islands and 99_per-cent bonus in Extremadura. « In Castile - the Channel applies a deduction of 95_per_cent, to Balears is paid only 7 percent of the liquidated base, to Aragó there is a reduction of 65 percent, etcetera, right? In València, a 75 percent bonus, too, with a limit of 150,000, etc., right? Catalonia and Galicia have set a rate for these donations between parents propers with types 5 to 9. But, so, clearly, if you want us to talk about the estate tax, let's talk about it, but our position knows what it is, right? You said before: "No, I want to apply the regulations of the State... It also seemed a little parany, didn't it? « Listen – and looked at us –, « the regulations of the State, the... So, listen, if you want to adapt to Catalonia the one that passes to the rest of Spain, it has very easy: you do as to Madrid, that to Canàries, that to Extremadura, Castella - La Manxa... already, it would not be good to make this small modification. We're dispelling the tax, because it's an unfair and unbalanced tax, you know it perfectly. So let's look for other figures that are more progressive, that are more just, more balanced. It's not the inheritance tax. Because we're a few, to the whole of Spain, that we're still paying this tax. Therefore, this would be our position. And that article that was also in the proposal that you are presenting to us today, in what is the two-year extension of the period to settle the estate tax, so the same one, right? That is to say, if we set ourselves at the level of many other autonomous communities, it would not be possible to make this small modification, because all of them, practically, have already placed it in the hundred_per_cent, this bonus, practically. So it would be very simple. This is our position in this matter, isn't it? So, it's not that you don't seem like this little, tiny change he's making; it's that the debate is another one. The debate is whether or not the Catalans must continue to paint the government of the Government of the Generalitat. This is the debate. And you, this Catalan spy on behalf of the Government of the Generality, don't want to do it. You're always talking about other supposed cops, but the Catalans of your government, of this one, don't want to talk about it, right? Or, for example, this increase in the share of the tax on legal acts documented in the public writing by spouses who agree to the separation of mutual agreement. No problem. Now, it's the same. Yes, yes, but it is that, of course, fixed's, here in Catalonia we are paying 1 and mig per cent, while in Madrid they pay 0.75, for example. Home, then, we go directly to improve the situation, not to make a little bit, here, that yes, man, it's fine, but that's not the issue. You want to camouflage a question that requires and that you want a deeper debate, don't you? I finally, on the pretext of the fight against the fraud, lead us here, like who doesn't want it, right? , the subject of the availability of data from the Member States in tax information, on taxpayers, etc. Home, we understand that it is an indispensable requirement for its objectives in the matter of converting the Catalan tax agency into a state structure for when the yearning for disconnection arrives: to be able to hold the data it needs. And you will understand perfectly..., not that I am expressing the enthusiasm that this change produces for us, right? So, and in short, I can't count on our support for everything I've explained to him and why the way he used it isn't right. If you want to have a debate about taxation and you want to dialogue, if you abandon the attitude of the tax that characterizes you at these times and want to dialogue, here you have us to dialogue. If you want to do a tax debate, let's do it, but let's do it without complex, let's do it right. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.201.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Before we enter a little in matter, we would like to do two previous things, they understand that before, with all due respect, with the spectacle, in a certain way, that it has been organized and that from as much as we organize when things that might have been said in other spaces are not said, but it seems to me that every claim that you think you have to claim..., yes, two things. One is: it is obvious and true, and here we share with some of the groups that have said it, that the government has recently tried to overdo the concept of one reading. And that's obvious, because a week ago and we had five single reading projects and, by luck, we dropped it and reduced it. So let us also sometimes watch over the abuse of legitimate mechanisms that the government has, which can generate susceptibilities, as they have been seen to generate. And then also in this set of billings that were about to go on a single reading, we also see how, when convenient, things that went on..., you know, like the accompanying law, we can tross them and try to pose different ways. So we also watch in future accompanying laws that we don't have to put it all down, or that we really do mean that it's indispensable to be there that it doesn't have to be there, because we've seen that there are things that after that you don't need to be there. Going into this bill, it's obvious that it's somehow a lost opportunity, but... it's a lost opportunity, but we can put the tools in it to fix it. And we understand that with this lost opportunity to make a debate, not on some taxes in concrete terms but on taxation in this country, we have time – not too much, but we have time – to get down to work, and we have time to start doing it. Because, in the background, it is neither intended nor intended for us to enter into a tax debate by tax, tax by tax, but to address clearly and decisively how we recover basic services and social spending, which is urgent, and how we compensate for the efforts made by the popular sectors of this country that have paid the post-bombula tax crisis with retail, tax increases and taxes each time less progressive, in this case VAT, which is clearly not the competence of the Generality, but that these reforms of taxes or these taxes every less progressive time that they have been directly affecting the popular classes and, therefore, those that have seen more with the retail have seen even less their purchasing skills or their access to the media. So, as far as this analysis is concerned, this debate about the fact that you pay taxes..., it seems that someone likes to say that paying taxes is bad; and it is lied, absolutely lied if we understand that we start from the premise that tax policy has the will to transfer resources from those who have the most to those who have less to finance and guarantee basic services of quality and access for everyone, and this must be the object of any fiscal debate we do here or any other place, that is, how we guarantee this country's basic services. And from here on, we're taking a clear look at what's the picture we've got. We also clearly assume Catalonia's infra-financing, because this is indisputable and no one can ever question it, and it is not us who poses it, but this excuse does not serve us to cover up other things. There is infra-financing, yes. Do we have options to deal with this situation? Also. And, therefore, this is the debate that we will not have today, but that we hope that in the next few weeks, the very months we can have calmly, openly and wherever we all lay on the table of what you believe. Because, as a matter of fact, we have to approach the debate that is sometimes done with certainty, in the background, in our understanding, demagogic, that you are making high, that you are making medium and that you are making low. Because, if we take over the liquidation... – and not because the obsession is touching the IRPF, no, but because it serves as an example and sets on the table the distribution of returns – if we look at the liquidation of the 2014 income tax of 3,499,000 settlement, 60_per_cent was of the people who charge less than 21,000_euros per year– 60_per_cent. And if we look at the 60,000? 3.80_per_cent. This is the distribution of income we have, but no longer of the imports they charge, but of the population: we have the 3.80 that they charge more than 60,000, and the 60_per_cent that they charge less than 21,000. This is the social reality that we have in this country and this is the reality that we need to address when we talk about taxation: as we do because those who cover the most contribute to basic service for those who cover the least. And as we also work, then, to go back to this situation of an excessive accumulation of people who are patenting the flaps, who are patenting austerity and who, year after year, see more minvae their opportunities. So, when we do this debate about rendering, what we need to talk about is why... or what do we say: why is taxation? Therefore, for the sustainability of public expenditure; to reduce inequalities and burden-sharing; to reduce inequalities and facilitate burden-sharing, or to do so more equitably or in a way that is more responsible for everyone, and also because it serves to generate an anticyclical policy. Why am I grateful for certain parliamentary groups that have become the great advocates – we too, huh? , to us seems fine, but... – of the fact that I can return to the estate tax of the year 2008. Because, to my knowledge, the first reform at the bottom of the estate tax was in 2009, when we were already in an economic crisis, which began, and when the very same ones who pushed the estate tax were governed. Therefore, sometimes these defenses clinging also to vagaries accompanied by a certain self-criticism or a certain analysis of what happened at that time and why it is certainly taking decisions in 2009, when there was already an economic crisis, which was already beginning to affect and that it was beginning to see details that affected the popular classes of these countries. Therefore, this is also taken into account when we talk about taxes. But, therefore, fiscal policy also has to do with which countercyclical policy we generate and how we generate a policy that avoids that in crisis situations which are less affected by the consequences and which are more calmly pursuing, as it is now. Because between those who cover more than 60,000 and those who... – here I don't agree with Mr. Coscubiela; the computer programs they escape from..., it's not a technical issue, it's also political, [[Funnel veils]] I mean... here, not even in this. [[Funnel veils]] There's technique, I mean, it's politics too... but we have to approach it here too. So, as we say, today, despite the fact that Mr Junquera spoke of technical issues, that we do not agree with the fact that technical fiscal policy is in place, but that we understand a certain urgency in some of these measures, other things we do not like, but we understand that there is a part that needs to be taken forward... we will support this, but waiting, asking and demanding that this Parliament have a debate on fiscal policy in its entirety, which addresses all the dimensions that need to be taken so that there is, in fact, a measure of the possibilities that the Generality has, a transfer of..., and a redistribution of wealth, so that it has more contributed to smoothing out the situation that it has at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.202.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, has the word Ms.Carmina Castellví, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.203.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councillors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. You see, I've been listening to them and everyone agrees with the measures of this project, but you will vote not. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well – well – it seems very good to me. Maybe we'll stop posturing and start thinking about people. Okay? [[Some applause.]] No one has talked about the bill, except the vice president, I will repeat many things, but "I have come to talk about my book, [[relays]] Whatever they say, right? This draft tax amendment law presented to us today by the Government, in response to the need to regulate a follow-up of tax measures already included in the draft law on administrative tax measures, financed by the public sector for the year 2007, which all of you were... did not allow to proceed. These changes, which, if they are purely technical – and I say yes, which are purely technical – have an impact on people who are less likely to have such important aspects for our society, such as the environment, the protection of the most defenceless and the fight against tax fraud. The bill affects five well-differentiated areas, for which it is a force that we refer separately to these five great themes, just five – for which I am telling you that I will repeat many things that the vice president has advanced. First of all, it modifies the tax on the emission of nitrogen oxides to the atmosphere, produced by commercial aviation. And there are three substantial changes: goods flights are incorporated, which until now were not subject to them; the topall of the twenty thousand volts is removed from the taxable base, and a single charge is established for all cases, and the dual nature of the tax type is removed, until now there was a general type and one reduction, which are now unified into a single type of two euros and half a kilogram of nitrogen oxides emitted. The modifications follow the indications of the European Commission and tend to have, in the sense of doubt, important consequences since, in one band, they will guide the behavior of the economic agents affected, which are the companies operating at the airport of Prat, and they will make them aware of the unintended environmental costs and the negative externalities generated by their activity. And, on the other hand, they would assume an increase of €395,000 that, here, it seems that someone seemed a little bit, but €395,000 a year more from the 2018 fiscal year. If we wait, Mr. Coscubala, a..., it would be 2019, 2020..., eh? The recap... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, he said it, yes; don't tell me no, I've been listening. The recaptancy that is now estimated for this 2018 financial year will exceed 4,300,000 euros, which acquires special transcendence if we take into account that it is a matter of additional inputs that allow to finance expenses of environmental character, for which the Generality suffers from a lack of chronic economic resources. The second major departure from the bill is that it provides for the modification of the inheritance tax and donations in which two important measures are introduced: firstly, they are in the protected assets that are in agreement with the Civil Code of Catalonia the expected tax benefits for the protected assets that are in agreement with the regulations of the Spanish State. This measure is of absolute consistency, since otherwise it would not be understood that Catalonia regulated, within its own civil right, the figure of protected assets and, then, tax discrimination against the constitutions under its own law, complies with the constitutions under the rules of the Spanish State. Now, as at present, the register of protected assets to the emperor of the private law of Catalonia has 523 registered. These assets will ultimately be able to accommodate the fiscal benefits provided for by this bill, since the purpose of the measure is to respond to a question of principles, coherence, justice and equal treatment, from which no one can escape. The second aspect that is modified from this inheritance tax and donations has a greater importance than it seems to indicate the modesty of its layout. In effect, what is done is to extend until 31 December 2017 the possibility of applying the exceptional two-year adjournment for the payment of the tax that the management agencies of the Tax Administration may grant in cases of lack of liquidity of the inheritance. It's about a measure that gives air to the taxpayers, who, unfortunately, have passed in the past years..., reverent heirlooms that are composed mostly of immobile goods. In other economic conjunctures, this fact, which was made up of rustic or urban farms of certain value, did not pose great obstacles for the taxpayer, because the real estate market allowed his quick sale and the obtaining of the liquid money necessary to make the payment of the tax quotas that are close to him in each case. As you all know, today's situation is not the same and there are cases where heretics are called upon to give up their inheritances because the assets they can earn cannot be converted into liquid or allow them to obtain credits for the payment of this tax. The extension of the time limit will, therefore, allow taxpayers to have more time to find solutions to these difficult situations and will also maximize the prospects for replenishment of the tax agency. The third modified tax is the property tax, to which are introduced for protected assets constituted in the emperor of the Catalan civil law the same tax benefits provided for the protected assets constituted in accordance with the regulations of the Spanish State. It is, therefore, a modification that tends to the same object and that has the same meaning that the one we have commented on before respects the tax of successions and donations, for which I will not be more on the subject. The fourth legal amendment is contraaed to establish a 100_per_cent bonus in the tax on property transfers and documented legal acts when they engrave public writings that bind the spouses in which they agree to their separation or divorce of mutual agreement; the possibility, in certain cases, to access the formalization of separation or divorce by mediating the argument of a public writing that reverses the pacts to which the persons who have arrived in order to regulate the breakdown of the pair is a measure that can encourage as an alternative to the divorce of mutual agreement processed in their court. Not only does it serve to decongest judicial bodies, but it also contributes to normalizing and de-dramatizing the crisis situations of couples, and to agile their solution, which in many cases the length of judicial proceedings only makes it difficult. It was contradictory with these purposes that the notarial writer had a tax cost for the application of the tax on property transfers and documented legal acts, when it turns out that the judicial sentences, which the writer intended to avoid, would not be taxed by the tax, with which it also resulted a comparative burden, and would be subject to the same tax treatment the two lifes of formalization of marriage crises. Obviously, the same measure applies also in stable pairs formed by persons living in accordance with Article 234.4 of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia. And, finally, the bill backs a crucial improvement in the fight against fraud through collaboration between administrations and the sub-administration of tax data between them. It is a matter of giving legal coverage – which until now did not exist – to the communication of data with tax transcendence that obtains the local councils and councils to the Tax Agency of Catalonia, which will obviously improve control and avoid tax fraud. The measure is appropriate because we see that each year the volume of data with tax transcendence in the possession of the supramunicipal administrations of Catalonia increases as a consequence of the delegations of competitions in the matter of tax collection that each time do the Catalan assemblies in the local supramunicipal administrations. These data cannot be communicated to the Tax Agency of Catalonia because there is no law to this communication, an anonymous situation that is solved by this bill. That is why our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-10-19-2402.204.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We'll start the vote. [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The Tax Urgent Changes Bill was approved by 66 votes to 58. Thank you very much, everyone. And we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
