ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.1.0	Very good morning, the session begins. The list of questions to answer orally is included in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda. I also remember the delegation of vote which, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, have made the deputies Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and Angels Martínez, of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. This delegation is made in the spokesman of both groups, Mrs. Eva Granados and Mr. Joan Coscubiela. [[Ask the Government about management to meet payment commitments]] [[310-00034/11]] The first point of the order of the day are, therefore, the questions to the Government. If there's no problem, question number 6, to be asked to Councilwoman Dolors Bassa, we'd put it to number 9, because we've been told that the Councilwoman will arrive a little late. If there's no problem, we'll do it that way. So let's start with the first question to the government, about the management to meet the payment commitments. The question is posed by Ms. Carmina Castellví, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.2.0	Thank you, President. Currently, the financing of the Generalitat is governed by an autonomous financing system that perpetuates the fiscal deficit, since it does not respect the principle of ordinaryity and places Catalonia under the middle in resources per capita. Catalonia has become the second position in terms of capacity to tax drawing in terms of resources per capita. Moreover, the central government repeatedly fails to complete all its commitments. The Generality's entries are largely decided for the calculations of the Spanish Government's Ministry of History, and since the amendment of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, moreover, the Government of the State sets out the Generality's payment priorities. The Generality, which is the Administration that provides basic services in the welfare state, is obliged to run in deficit and to finance itself solely and exclusively through the FLA. The disloyalty of the central government has also manifested itself in the unjust distribution of the deficit targets, a distribution that has penalized local and autonomous administrations. Everyone is aware of the debt that the Generality is carrying with the providers – local companies, entities or administrations – because of this unjust system. Also noted are the tensions of treasuries that periodically affect the Generality. We have known for the press the contact of the Vice President with the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Hisenda to speak precisely about the finances of the Generality. At the same time, it is the will of the group that I represent to know the performance of the Government and, concretely, of its economic area, in order to meet the commitments of expenditure. It is of interest to know this Member and her parliamentary group, at the same time as the generality's three-hour tensions, arising from the incomplete financing system, whose management is ultimately due to the Government in order to meet these payment commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.3.0	Reply by the Vice President and Counsellor of Economy and History, Mr Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.4.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, everybody. Indeed, the financial situation of the Catalan public institutions, the Generality and all of them at the end of the day is extremely complex. It is extremely complex because there is a clearly unjust system of financing, which separates the responsibility of tax collection from the responsibility to deal with social expenditure, the combination of expenditure and, in particular, social expenditure. For this reason we have been speaking with everyone, also with the Ministry of Economy, also with the Ministry of Heritage. With the Ministry of Economy, the conversation was focused or focused, until this moment, around a question I understand everyone is sharing, and it's: is it better that certain beliefs are short-lived? The Minister's response, the Ministry of Economy's response is yes; the response of the affected financial entities is also that; our intention is to – to facilitate management – pass credits at short notice to large. If everyone agrees, why isn't it? Not because we don't have the will, but because the Spanish government tells us that before we do it we must have specific authority to do it. Then we say: "Listen, but if you agree that we do, why don't you give us permission? At these times they are in an internal management that relies on an anticipated report from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Hisenda; the Ministry of Hisenda has to return it to the Ministry of Economy, because the Treasury authorizes us to make this change. We're waiting for this, waiting for it to be resolved quickly. With respect to the Ministry of Heritage, we are basically dealing with the question of some money that the Ministry recognizes that they correspond to the Catalan institutions since the year 2014, which did not arrive in 2014 because they calculated the beast at the bottom, that the liquidation should be done at the end of two years. We continue to say that two years, from the generation of the 14th, ended in the generation of the 16th, and the ones of the February of the 14th, to the fever of the 16th. We limit ourselves to finding this fact and hope that the ministry will act as it thinks best and that the citizens will come as close as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.5.0	Second question, about the 2016 Mobile World Congress. [[Ask the Government about the 2016 Mobile World Congress]] [[310-00035/11]] The question is posed by Mr Oriol Amat, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.6.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone, we address the next question to the Business and Knowledge Councillor, and the theme is the Annual Mobile Congress. This is an event of the utmost relevance to our economy and our business fabric, for many reasons. If we look at it superficially, then for a few days we have a hundred_ thousand visitors; among these hundred_ thousand visitors, people of the highest relevancy, presidents and executives of companies that are changing the world. At the latest edition we had the president of Facebook, the president of Viquipèdia, etc. They are the people who are changing the world, and therefore, only for this reason is already an event of the utmost importance. But, besides, it's an event that generates a lot of foreign investment. Today, the newspapers themselves are a fan of a report published yesterday by the Financial Times which says that Catalonia is the most attractive, most interesting region in southern Europe, in the years 2016 and 2017, for foreign investment. For another band, this convention makes it possible not to lose momentum in the reception of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs of the ICT sector, which is a cabdal sector, which generates at these times more than eighty_ thousand places of work; we have more than fourteen_ thousand enterprises of the ICT sector, represents 2_percent of the enterprises. Therefore, it allows us to be in contact with a cabdal sector to generate employment and quality, which is an important issue for our economy. Well, for a reason like these, the Mobile theme has the maximum relevance. At some point there was some administration that got a little lost, in the end it seems that not so much. And, therefore, the concrete question for the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge is: what value does it make, of the later edition of this convention? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.7.0	Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, as you said, Mobile is a great opportunity for Barcelona and Catalonia. And the Government of Catalonia has participated from its beginnings; it has participated concretely since the year 2006. Therefore, this was the 11th year in which, consecutively, the Government of Catalonia participated actively. Why do we believe that? Because it is, Mobile has become the main event, the first technological fire in the world. And it's important that the most important fir, the fir that has the world's largest replete, is located in Barcelona and is located in Catalonia. It is not Barcelona that is admiring the world: it is the world, the whole world, that is fixed during all these days in Barcelona. It is also important for the quality of the people they visit. You said so, there is reference: the highest leaders of the world's tech companies, but also many government representations that come all these days to visit the convention and we have contact with all these government organizations. In addition, you said, participation record: 101,000 people, a 6_per_cent more; 2,200 exhibitors; 204 visitors from 204 countries, and more than 3,600 journalists and people directly interested in the convention. But for the Government of Catalonia the most important thing is, first, that it is done in Barcelona, because so what we can do is carry Catalan businesses, the majority small and medium-sized enterprises – this year, sixty – that we have carried them, we have given them a space so that they can be present in the world's best technological model. And this allows them to make a lot of contacts; we believe that they have made more than 4,600, these companies, and that they will be able to get a billing around 7 to 10 million euros. And these companies, I have the certainty that if this convention is not held in Barcelona they would not be able to be on Mobile. And precisely because it's done in Barcelona, we give them an opportunity to be at the first division of the world in technology. And that's our result. And, besides, there was also another convention, which is the Four Years From Now, in which there were twenty-six Catalan companies that have been at a start-ups convention that is becoming one of the foundations of the ecosystem of ICT enterprises, ICT start-ups, Catalonia and Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.9.0	Third question to the Government, about the actions on the railway line of the People of Segur. [[Ask the Government about the actions on the railway line of the People of Segur]] [[310-00036/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Albert Batalla, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Your Honor. In the first place, let's, like Pyrenenc and the person of the mountain, congratulate the Government and thank the Government decided that yesterday it took to create the General Directorate of Policies of Muntanya. The objective of any government must therefore be to give tools for the territorial balance of the territories of our country, and also to give the opportunity to the citizen of Catalonia, visquin on visquin, to have good services and to have quality of life. Therefore, we believe that taking over the territories with a general direction of mountain policies is very and very positive. That's what we're talking about: the opportunity for the citizen, the viscous, the communications, and in this case the railway communications. A few weeks back, just to the principle of this legislature, in fact the first act of the President of the Generality, of President Puigdemont, was the visit to Lleida for the trains, for the new trains of the line Lleida - Balaguer - La Pobla, a line that until the year 2004 was managed and owned by the State and a line that weighed until 2004 an important space of Dàmocles, because the arguments of the State is that it was an unprofitable line, a line that might not be worth continuing forward. Today's line is a line of the future, it's a line with us comboes, with girl investments, with stations that have been renovated, that have been donated to them, etcetera. Therefore, from this point of view, we wanted to know – because in the very weeks, therefore, there will be new developments in this aspect – which is the opinion of the Government respecting this issue, and also linked to another railway line that gives access to a valle perrinenca, which is the R3, which goes from Barcelona to Puigcerda, where more or less three hours to make the call, less or less the same time that there was when this line was created, about a hundred years ago, with a significant investment deficit, with repeated incompliments on the part of the State and with abandoned stations. Therefore, the question would be: how does the Government value the evolution of the People's line, managed by the Generality, versus how it values the evolution of the Puigcerdà line, managed by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.11.0	Reply to the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.12.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, we're actually talking about two different management models. With one we can give guarantees of a good service; with the other, no. In the line of the People the Government, the Generalitat de Catalunya, has had all the instruments. At these times we have control of the infrastructure, the lives, and the control of the trains, and that is why we have been able to apply a whole bunch of better things that users can believe, they can value, they can make tangible this month of April. Through the integral control of the system, what we can bring is that we reduce the speed, the journey time. We won with commercial speed. To go from Lleida to the village, then, we saved fifteen minutes. That's very important. We increase the frequency, we increase the service, as much to Balaguer as to the people, we lower the price of the ticket, we increase the quality with us trains. This is the people's line. And in comparison we have the R3, the line to Vic; to Parets, Vic, Puigcerdà, and Ripoll. This is a line, let's say, in which we, unfortunately, have not been able to make this reversal. Who has to do it is Adif, who is the owner of the infrastructure. And at these moments, what we see is that there is an important lack of compliments to the commitments made. And that's why this is a line that doesn't guarantee reliability; that the punctuality level, which should be 99_per_cent, is 90_per_cent. And that's why what we want to move is that when the Catalonian Government has full control of the system's conjunction, the system can work. And we can guarantee this reliability, and we can guarantee that the trains arrive in time, and we can recapture the territory. With the line of the people we are making a bet for territorial cohesion, to which you make reference. This same criteria, this same model is what we want to extend to the country's conjunction, with regard to the Pyrenees: the people's line, R3, and with regard to the rest of the system. I'm done. The other day I had the opportunity to meet with the presidents of the regional councils of the Ribera, the Priory and the High Land. The R15, punctuality level: 51_per_cent. This is the difference between doing things right, from here on out, and doing the others wrong. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.13.0	Fourth question to the Government, on the application of decree 3+2 on university studies and its effect on the Catalan university system. [[Ask the Government about the application of decree 3+2 on university studies and its effect on the Catalan university system]] 310-00028/11 The question is posed by Mr. Albert Botran, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.14.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Counselor, the need of the university community in the application of 3+2 is growing, as the price of the masters is substantially higher because the prices of the degrees, and this is a very close characteristic of our university system in the European mark. At this point, therefore, that this price is higher, forcing students to study between two and three years of master's degree in accordance with the previous model; implies, a priori, an increase in the overall price of university studies. Can I assure the government that 3+2 will not impact on this global increase, that is, the most mastery degree, of university studies?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.15.0	Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.16.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, the first thing I'd like to say is that there's no 3+2 model. In fact, what there is is a possibility of flexibility and there will be a combination of degrees and university educational offer that will combine 4+1 and another 3+2. And, in any case, the decision to go to..., or to offer 3+2 models is a decision that will only take academic criteria, which will be done in a consensual way in the framework of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, which applies universities, students and administrations. And what has been decided is that if it is done..., those degrees that are made in this way, the degree, the first year of master's degree will be paid at the price of the degree, and therefore the students will not bear any cost increase for the fact that, only for academic reasons, it has been decided to apply this degree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.17.0	Mr. Botran's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.18.0	Well, thank you. We would appreciate it if it were so, but I would like to give you two examples of masters that the year that you will apply with the new scheme of the decree: the nickname "Bachelor's Degree in Bioinformatics" – it is said so because the cent_per_cent of the assignments are in English – has a price of 9,000, almost 10,000_euros, the course, and there are three courses, since the new scheme involves masters of 180 credits. Another is the nickname for digital creation and production, €8,000 for three courses. That's a lot of masters to complete college training. If, therefore, this is because of the fact that they are shared in adscript centers and, therefore, they are propitious titles..., perhaps the problem that we would be referring to is another, that the majority of masters are given in these adscript centers and, therefore, cannot be influenced by their price. I don't know if the government's chosen way of lowering prices through equity scholarships is the fence or whether it should be, as it was also proposed to the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, to match the prices of master and degree. But in this case, in these two concrete examples that I mentioned, it does not seem to me that they are exactly matching the prices of master and degree. That's a lot of doubt on our part. The council of university students in Catalonia also expressed many doubts and showed a very sceptical position when the Interuniversity Council was assembled in May to see how it would apply to these masters. And, therefore, before these doubts, what we plant is a moratorium on the application of the 3+2 decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.19.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.20.0	Yeah. For the course 2016-2017 the offer of new degrees of 180 credits is cenyez to four – to four – proposals of degree: one is of digital creation and production, taught for the University of Barcelona through an assigned center; the other is of bioinformatics, taught for the universities of Barcelona, Pompeu Fabra and Politècnica de Catalunya, in an assigned center of the University of Pompeu Fabra; another is of global studies of Pompeu Fabra, this directly imparted, and another of design and digital arts of the University of Catalonia, this is done in face-to-face form. The rest – the rest – of the degree studies will continue with the offer formed by 480 titles of 240 credits. There's four of them. There are four that are very specific, they are unique proposals that do not exist until now, that are oriented to internationalization, and, in the case that there are students of the country who want to enroll there, there will be a powerful system of scholarships that will help them to keep the cost, therefore, affordable and not high and there are no differences respect the other costs. From scholarships for all these studies... there will be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.21.0	Five questions to the Government on the situation of prison workers. [[Ask the Government about the situation of prison workers]] [[310-00031/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Esperanza García of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.22.0	Good morning. Counselor, the question follows the same line that I followed at your time in your appearance to the Justice Commission barely three weeks ago. What is the situation and what are the protocols that have been applied in relation to prison functions in relation to the latest press releases?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.23.0	Counsel for Justice, Mr. Carles Mundó, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.24.0	Good morning, President. Madam MP, the protocols that have been applied are the known ones, those who know all the workers of the prison services of Catalonia. And with regard to the news you're referring to, frankly, I'm supposed to know who you're referring to, because I've read various press releases in the past few weeks that I'm not sure about, and so I'm not sure which is the real question that's asking me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.25.0	There's the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.26.0	Look, the information that appears in the press, at the length of practically four_months, makes reference to a reality. The reality is that the attacks on justice in Catalonia have gone up ostensibly far from this beginning of the year. Since practically the generation of this year, the attacks in Catalonia have remained twenty-nine. Twenty-nine of these..., who practically make more than 50 per cent of the attacks suffered by justice officials, especially those who are dedicated to the vigilance of Catalan prisons. The reality is that these attacks occur in all centers, but there is a special incidence in Puig de les Basses, there is a special incidence in the Model prison and there is a special incidence in Figueres. At the time, I already commented on the reality of the Catalan prison functionaries. The reality is that 80_per_cent of the template is of an interesting character. The reality is that it is neither complete nor so alone with the law and the prison regulations respect the presence of vigilance functions in all Catalan prison modules. The reality is that – although you deny it – the Model prison has exactly six of you working to monitor a patient with more than four hundred inmates. This is the reality of Catalan prisons, Mr. Counselor. The reality is that you are wrong in setting priorities for this council. We know, practically three days ago, the reality of the iniquitous of a project that is said to be a red button against violence. This red button against violence did not have any consensus or dialogue with the agents involved, but it is that, moreover, this responds to a practice or application of the protocols on and against torture to police stations and prisons. And the reality of Catalan prisons is very different. You are also leaving, like the rest of the government, the UPC that marks them the security policies and prisons in Catalonia. And this is a reality that has been reproduced too many times. So much – so much – that you should not forget to be a reality, and that is that the inmates..., the prison officials in court are not the convicted, the convicted are the inmates, and they have to work in conditions of dignity, equality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.27.0	Mrs. Garcia, they've run out of time, I know hard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.28.0	...and security.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.29.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.30.0	Yes; honourable Member, I insist, frankly, I find it difficult to answer the question because you base your explanation on a reality that does not exist. I understand that you have mastered some information that you read in the press, information that is certainly not. I reiterated to her, in the appearance that I had occasion to do here in Parliament, that of everything that affects the Department of Justice with great pleasure we would inform her, and I also invited her to visit the prison centres whenever I wanted to. I see that you have a special interest in the Model prison and, in fact, we have expressly invited you for some day of April, and if you have not refused the invitation it will probably return you today, or you are about to review it, so you can know the reality directly from the situation of the prisons in Catalonia. You're talking to me about an increase in attacks on workers. It is clear that the workbook of a prison centre is not risk-free. It's a profession that's obviously in a risk environment, like the body workers and the security forces. And, therefore, it is not strange that an aggression or a situation of difficulty can occur. But what I can't accept, and I can't share, is that there's an increase. You're raising an increase, but I don't know what the relationship is with or in what period. Says: "The year 2016 there is an increase I don't know how aggressions. Compared to what? It is not true – it is not true – that there is no increase in attacks on the centers. What the workers have is the proper training, the appropriate means, the protocols that follow are the correct ones to minimize, obviously, this risk that exists, and what is clear is that the 4,750 workers in Catalan prisons are doing a magnificent job; they do a job with all the means that we put them in the supply so that they can do it in complete security. And it's true that there can be some conflict situation, but it's close to this natural. You told me about attacks, for example, on Puig de les Basses and Figueres, which is the same prison. What I have to say to you about this question, which you must have read in press, is that of a clerk, he said the news, to whom the nose broke. This is absolutely lying – it's lying – and if you know this one I'll work on who broke his nose in an attack...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.31.0	Counselor, he's run out of time. [[Pause.]] I had asked them that question number 6 passed to 9, but since this is the councillor, we will follow the previst order, and therefore we will now ask question number 6 on the Occupational Service of Catalonia. [[Ask the Government about the Occupational Service of Catalonia]] [[310-00029/11]] The question is posed by Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.32.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good morning, Constellera Bassa... Catalunya years ago she saw immersed in a situation of obvious and deep economic crisis that we all know. Thousands of people have been caught up in the past and in precarity, yet many of them still find themselves and are looking for an obvious opportunity for the public employment service system, the SOC. Many of them will never find work again in their traditional work sector, and will need to offer guidance and training to regroup them. What measures does the Government have planned to promote the formation and orientation of these long-running actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.33.0	There's the word Constellera Dolors Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.34.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, for the question. As you know, setting up the SOC as the governance centre of Catalonia's employment system is the first priority, and not as the only agent, to begin with. Rescueing the pool of resources that should be appropriate to the system of occupation is also another of our priorities, therefore, all those coming from Madrid, and ensuring that the public service to maturity and the right subject to the occupation of all people, not just those of more than forty-five years, remain priorities for our function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.35.0	There's a word from Mr. Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we think it's time to take a determined action to help the 45-year-old majors who have suffered this crisis hard together with young people and women. The situation calls for special attention, I would say that it would be a priority, since it does not only affect the culmination of a career, which is obvious, but also affects their retirement, which should be in decent condition, until they have already won it; moreover, a lot of times supposes that it is dynamite the family entrances of more than one person, and this has direct consequences in the studies of their children, in the maintenance of people in charge and in the future of a sentient family. To give solutions to these citizens, personalized attention is vital, and you know it. We know that the SOC has been able to find out more about its possibilities: personal, pressupost, program, etc. And while Europe recommends personalized attention, we have techniques that hold more than a thousand fruit trees. Moreover, if we add the news of the past few days, we know that the SOC suffers from a collapsing situation in many places, so we still have more problems. An up or down, a person, a woman or a man up at a work office has little chance of knowing that he will get a service that increases his options to be occupied. And that's worrisome, Counselor, because the Occupational Service of Catalonia, the public service, is what many people just stay in front of them. And data, but above all the experience of a lot of people who tell us about it, so they show it to us. I'm asking you, Counselor... I'm asking you to tell us what specific protocol the SOC uses in its attention to forty-five-year-olds and seniors. Is it about reinforced follow-up protocols? Have you thought about the government, some kind of help in cooking to seniors of forty-five years who don't find work? Counsel, this topic is a topic that I have on the table and that it is important to give it out, because we play a lot, and a lot of people are about to have a solution, so I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.37.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.38.0	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give you a clear answer as to what you're asking for. You make a claim that the unions are making, I suppose that the UGT in concrete, so I know very well this claim that, from forty-five years on, I can give the people the quote. We're a student, we're looking at it, but also tell him that we're working for all the collectors, especially those who have difficulties. Yesterday, if you look at the press, we present the youth guarantee, which you have criticized many times. And tell us how many young people have come to go, the network that we have created because it increases young people's employability and, above all, that in these last six thousand months young people have already found a job in our country. As for the older than forty-five years, which you were asking me determinedly, you know that we have a program, that is the program of Great Actius. We're working on the subject of guidance. As you know, the contract was over. We are working to change and, therefore, to re-hold these cents. And what you also say about some of the 50-nine jobs in Catalonia is not true that there are many that have a thousand jobs, because, as I said to the original, the SOC is not alone – the job office is not alone – we work in the network and in the territory there are many other places that work, many agents that work with the SOC, municipal employment services that work, also, with this great activity program of forty-five years old. Therefore, we are working for all collections and, above all, for the most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.39.0	Seven questions to the Government, on budgetary policy. [[Ask the Government about budgetary policy]] [[310-00032/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Antonio Espinosa, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President i Counsellor d'Economia, in your appearances in this Parliament and, moreover, in your interviews, you have repeatedly stated that in liquidity fund loans the Government applies to us, or wants to apply to us, a much higher percentage than those same loans cost to it. You argue that the government is financed at 0.05 and wants to lend us to the autonomous communities and, specifically, to Catalonia at 0.83, behaving, as well as a usurper lender who multiply by sixteen the price of the money he receives. Mr Junqueras, we have analysed the situation and you, with these assertions, what makes it simple and plainly is to manipulate or, well, what yours is, then, if not this, would be a capital ignorance, and either of these things, Mr Junqueras, is inconceivable in a vice president and an economic advisor. Following his lack of knowledge and arguments it would turn out that, now, with the rates of the European Central Bank at zero_per_cent, it would turn out that Spain lends us, eh? , the Spanish Government lends us eighty_and_three times the price of the same, i.e. eighty_and_three times above the price. I, in the face of such manipulation tomorrow, simply want to ask you: are you ratified in these manifestations?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.41.0	Reply by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.42.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, first of all, I wanted to thank you for the weighting of your intervention in what you used very, very – moderate terms, let's say, eh? : manipulator, disconnector, etcetera. My statement..., my explanations are the following: so far, the Spanish Government has had access, through the European Central Bank's credentials – which indirectly include debt that includes financial entities, commercial entities – has had access to a type of interest of 0,05_per_cent. Why? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Because what the Central Bank does... – if you let me explain, I can explain it, if not, then you will tell me that I have not answered it, I hope 'a moment, with patience', the Central Bank buys, through financial entities – is to say, buying back to the financial entities –, debt of the states. In many cases it does so in 0.05_per_cent; from now on, a few weeks ago, to 0_per_cent. Certainly, the difference between 0_per_cent, 0.0 and 0.834 to be concrete, is not eighty-three times more, it is infinitely more. I'm just saying for the sake of precision, huh? I, as you see, always help you because you express yourself in the most precise way. It is true – it is true – that there are many mechanisms – many mechanisms – possible financing. And there are short-term financings, long-term financings, there are letters and there are good letters, etc. But I still feel certain that it is obvious that the State has infinitely higher financing possibilities than we have at these times, even though it is only because the State prevents us from having them. Certainly, as long as you probably assumed government responsibilities in the Spanish State along the same week– you don't know exactly how many, but you will take them, and if not, you will have occasion to make some parliamentary control session in the current government in operation, sure that will be so– take one thing into account: last week the Eurogroup left open the possibility of setting sanctions against the Spanish State if it doesn't correct the 8,000_million euro presuppositionary deviation that, at these times, you have planned. When you have any opinion on this subject, we will be happy to help you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.43.0	The word has the deputy Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.44.0	Well, I see it continues... unfortunately, I have to ratify in manipulation or misinformation. You see, you should know that to finance you the Public Treasury will have to pay the price that is marked in public debt auctions. That means – that means – no more or less than, today, the ten-year bonus with which the FLA is financed is at 1.47, so far from the 0.05 or 0.0 you're telling me. Please report if you do or consult with us because we could help you. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, look, we are willing to help you, really. We are ready to negotiate, we are ready to improve the conditions of the FLA and the financing of the Government of Spain. But, look, from rigor – from rigor – and from loyalty, not from victimism. Look, you've settled in a situation..., wanting to reach sovereignty, where you've actually arrived and where you've settled is in sovereign manipulation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.45.0	Mr. Spiny, I know hard, he's running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.46.0	...and in the sovereign ignorance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.47.0	Vice President, you've got 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.48.0	Thank you. Listen, we... – twenty-two and twenty-five of Mr. Espinosa: forty-five. Escotti, the European Central Bank... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't interrupt me because it then decounts time. Holy patience, take it easy! You don't..., I don't put any obstacles to it that you say to me, "manipulator," to me, "discognisor." So long, patience. The type of interest that the European Central Bank, which at this time places money, new money on the market, at the rate of 80,000_million euros each month, is 0.0_per_cent. Fortunately – fortunately – for the pool of funded entities, because, if not, if not, the situation would be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.49.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.50.0	...very difficult for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.51.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.52.0	And you should have an attitude a little more responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.53.0	Vuitena asks the government about business policy. [[Ask the Government about business policy]] [[310-00033/11]] The question is posed by Mr Matías Alonso, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.54.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we are concerned about the lack of effectiveness of the government's corporate policy of the Government of Catalonia, a government that, in only six years, has disconnected from general interest and has moved from business-friendly to rush to disconnect all of us. Catalonia has been an economic referent in the conjunct of Spain, and the strength of the Catalan economy – and, specifically, that of the Catalan industrial sector – worries us, and you should take much more. What is his Government's objective for this parliamentary term in relation to industrial policy and the fact that the industrial sector has to be at the forefront of the Catalan economy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.55.0	Answer the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.56.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, don't worry. The goal of enhancing the country's productive activity is not just my main activity, as a counselor, but is the main activity of the entire government. Because all the government in a cross-cutting and sectoral way, from the president to all the advisors ending up for me, everything, is directly involved in achieving better results for Catalonia's economic activity and productive activity. And, to be hopeful for the future, I just remind you that one..., yesterday, precisely, yesterday, an entity like the Financial Times recognized Catalonia as the best region to invest in southern Europe in the years 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.57.0	I have the word Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.58.0	Thank you, Counselor. Miri, you announced that the industry sector in the Catalan economy had to reach 25_per_cent by the year 2020. But I have to tell you that, at this time, we see it as a little feasible, because there is a reality in Catalonia, only to do something about industrial policies, the difficulty of opening up new businesses is enormous. The single window still doesn't work and there are administrative features that make it very difficult to design us. Tax charges also make entrepreneurship difficult and affect self-government and peppers. The displacements, the flight of entrepreneurs have increased in recent years; some of the most significant ones have to do with the separatist drift of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and its government. A few days ago Covestro, Bayer's subsidiary, announced the provision of €73_million to close its Tarragona plant, a tank that will have very heavy consequences on other chemical companies, especially chlorine producers, such as Ercros. And so far we only have good words. We are not aware that the Government has managed sufficiently and, above all, effectively and effectively to avoid these displacements and because, if they are ultimately produced, they do not have a negative domino effect. Work hard to strengthen industry and to achieve the conditions that allow the growth of all productive sectors. Stop playing fictional politics and the status quo changes that only create uncertainty and legal insecurity for businesses and hinder their growth. Seek consensus, engage in dialogue and generate the synergies needed to better condition the business system and increase the competitiveness of our businesses. We will continue to search for formulas that allow us to improve these conditions and walk all folds towards a sustainable and sustained growth. It is what industry has to have, because industry has to have a very prominent place, as it has always been in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.59.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.60.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, the industry has and will have a very prominent role in the economy of this country. Now it is at 20_percent of its GDP; if we add to it the services directly linked to the industry, practically sum up 50_percent of its GDP and continue to have..., and yes, what we want is to increase it. Deia – he says – "There are difficulties for businesses, companies have difficulties to create themselves. Four hundred_night-new journeys to the single business window; an approved law that begins to unfold, simplifying administrative activity; the past year was created..., not only was it not destroyed, but it was created..., corporate constitutions increased by 5.2_per_cent in this country, and the month of generation continued to grow. Delocalizations for the process, there is no – there is no – and new investments are announced every day. A Korean telecommunications multinational announced Catalonia as the basis for its incorporation into Europe; a multinational, Zurich, announced the creation of a big centre here in Barcelona; the multinational Nestlé announced the creation of all social networks and the concentration of all social networks in Catalonia. If that, if these are examples of inversions stretching from the country through the process, escort, it seems to me that more quickly what happens is the opposite. There is, it is certain that there are companies going on, but they are not companies that are going on or can plan to go on the process; they are going on because of the difficulties they have, for example, with the cost of energy or with the lack of strategic infrastructures, which is what we do not have and is what we do not have the capacity to decide. And that is why we are working to have, with this process, the full capacity to decide on the energy policy and policies of large transport and communications infrastructures. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.61.0	Ninth question, on negotiations with the Government of the State for the improvement of autonomous financing. [[Ask the Government about negotiations with the Government of the State for the improvement of autonomous financing]] 310-00030/11 Ask the question, Mr Joan Coscubiela, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, bring three_months and you haven't yet told us whether the Government, in terms of funding, opts for disobedience and disconnection or opts for negotiation. Can I answer that today?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.63.0	The words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.64.0	Looks like it's not three months, looks like it's past the months. Listen, we... I really appreciate the scarecrows who make some Members of the opposition, but that doesn't give them any more arguments to their questions, let's just say. Listen to one thing, our explanation is very clear, we have already explained it several times: our will, of course, is to make Catalonia's independence and so we will. Now, at the same time it seems to us that it is mandatory to give to meet the citizen of this country who is the situation and, in this sense, I bring him a particular affection. According to the Legislature Act, autonomous administrations should enjoy the '1.07_per_cent deficit; we will actually enjoy the 0.3_per_cent deficit. This difference of nearly eight tenths is 1,600_million euros. If we add to this the remaining non-liquidation corresponding to 2014, which are money that correspond to us since 2014, according to the same Ministry of Hisenda, 1,400_million more, we are talking about 3,000_million. If that's what we're adding to the calculation at the bottom of the 2016 beasts, because the same pilot will finance 2013, 2014, 2015, they're also doing this year, we'd be more than 4,000_million. On a assumption that 88_percent is finalist and, therefore, 12_percent is not finalist, and that it is therefore located in non-finalist territories around 2,400, 2,500_million euros, hold it 4,000 plus– 4,000_million plus– or 4,000_million minus, to keep it from holding it, it seems to me that it is a brutal difference. And it seems to me that you agree with me on this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.65.0	There's a word from Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.66.0	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, let us reiterate to you once again: in matters of demand to the Spanish Government, with just financing and with a decent deal, he will have us, in Catalonia Yes, he is, always at his side; he can count and so he will be. But with the same clarity and with the same strength we tell him that with this there is not enough, that you must begin to assume the responsibilities that you have in the matter of fiscal policy and, in this sense, we ask him again, for the fourth time in these two months: does his government think to reform the inheritance tax to end with the gift of 500_million euros to the wealth of the richest Catalans while saying that it has no money to make social policies? Is your government planning to improve the progress of the IRPF's autonomic tram to make them higher? Do you think your government, once and for all, will begin to collect taxes on empty habitations? Do you think your government will stop funding elite schools that secrete by sex while saying it has to shut down zero-three-year stage centers? Does your government think it's going to re-discuss tax reliefs from taxes or does it think it's going to leave it as it is? Do you think your government will end the subsidies, to say the least, to the courtesans of the regime, or do you think you'll leave it as it is? Does your government plan to modify institutional subsidies so that they stop being advertised, hidden subsidies? All of these are answers that you have to make, and that is your responsibility, and it is time for me to start answering them, because you don't really feel that you just put the responsibilities out. I insist, he will have us at his side, but you can't go on saying that the Government of Together for Yes is not the Government of Heaven, but, in change, policies continue to feel the same; at least for now. You are no longer the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, and even the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia is no longer the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, but you will understand that citizenship cannot conform to having a government that has advisors who are more cool: – the Pain, the Toni, the Raül, the Oriol... – if they continue to make the same policies. [[Widow's remorse.]] In this sense – in this sense – I'll tell you: we won't ask you anything you can't do, but we'll demand everything you can do and you're not doing. And now you're no longer in opposition to government, now you're in government, and I hope you don't pretend that the paper that made the Republican Left of Catalonia in the previous legislature is now making the UPC...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.67.0	Time's up, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.68.0	...because, then, this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.69.0	I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.70.0	I want to thank him for the cool suck qualification, because I understand that he said it in a positive way and... [[Rialles.]] Just as I appreciate the weighting of the intervention, moderation and centrism of Mr. Espinosa, I also want to thank him for his respect for the cool cocky advisors that this government has. That said, you asked me an encyclopaedic question, which is a new way of asking questions, which is to do it..., I did not count some seven or said, because I did not count it – there was a moment... Then, in the next appearance we have in this Parliament, I will answer it in detail. One thought: if you refer to games that are no longer the party you were because they have changed, etc., let's say that you are not an expert, because yours has experienced it intensively. [[and some applause]] And, therefore, it is possible that you are in a position to answer any of the questions that you have made better than myself. In any case, I undertake to answer your seventeen or say that you made your own appearance, because I will need a little more than the thirty-four seconds left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.71.0	Questions to the President of the Generality. This question concerns the political and social situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the government's policy in relation to Turkey and the Kurdish people]] [[317-00020/11]] The question is posed by Mr Benet Salellas, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.72.0	Thank you, President. Only a few days ago, Deputy Mireia Vehi was detained and deported by the Turkish authorities when she was travelling with another Catalan company to Diyarbakir, Kurdistan, precisely in a very clear action by the Turkish authorities to prevent international observers from seeing and explaining the obvious violations of fundamental rights that, at these times, exist in Kurdistan. I do not have time, of course, to develop the harmful policy in the field of human rights in Turkey, the obvious context of violation of these human rights in the streets of Kurdistan, as this very week, precisely, in Diyarbakir, so there have been civilian deaths on the part of Turkish forces and as, let us say, journalists, in this sense, I am perfectly aware of how the issue of press freedom, to quote another human right, is, of course, uplifted and unearthed on the part of the Turkish authorities. Our question is: in this context, what is the policy of this Government, of the Government of Catalonia, with regard to Turkey?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.73.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.74.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, President. As a Member of Parliament, the policy with regard to the Government of Turkey is all that allows us to have the Statute of Catalonia, our international relations, our external relations, and which must include a very polyhedral panorama, which you have to see with which you describe, particularly with regard to Kurdistan; which you have to see with refugees and relations between the European Union and Turkey and the conflict in the East; which you have to see with the economy; and which you have to see with regard to Turkey's commercial and economic relations with the European Union. Therefore, the combination of this government's interest in relation to Turkey responds to this complexity of the various interests that it has in relation to Turkey-Europe, Turkey-Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.75.0	There's a word from Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.76.0	In relation to the question of refugees, we will talk about another day, because we, as a parliamentary group, have clearly understood that we need to work from the street and out of this institution that is not proving to be at the height of circumstances, from our perspective. In any case, and like the country, like the Government of this country, of Catalonia, we have experienced our own decaffeinated Turkey, which is the clear and concrete position of the Government of the Generality in relation to the Kurdish people? Can we say and make it clear that there is a defence and support commitment to the right to self-determination of the Kurdish people and a clear commitment to the support and political solidarity of this Government of Catalonia to the institutions and entities fighting from Kurdistan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.77.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.78.0	As you must imagine, Mr. Member, we are not a government that is reluctant, but just the opposite, to hear the causes of freedom, of self-determination that the peoples of the world have. And, in this sense, one of them is the people of Kurdistan; we feel very own. Tanmateix, let'dir-li, since he was talking about Turkey, to specify more precisely what is the position of the Government in the context of what is its foreign policy and, in particular, what has to see the interests with Turkey, that we are supporters, as I am convinced that it is the joint of the European Union, that Turkey has the best relations with the European Union – the best – and if it is to pass through agreements, agreements, we see it well. Second: Turkey is a very important player in the security of a conflict zone. And, therefore, we have to refer to Turkey often from many points of view, and it is an actor we want to play in favour, and not against, of the security of a complex area around the world. And third: what we all expect from Turkey is that it respects human rights – that it respects human rights – and that, in a few points, concerns us. And that is why, if we are to refer to the agreement, to the presumed agreement of the European Union-Turkey with regard to refugees, we should express a great deal – a lot, a lot – of deep concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.79.0	Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the statements of members of the Government of Spain in the sense that they would not let the Government of the Generality fall due to problems of economic solvency]] [[317-00023/11]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier García Albiol of the Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.80.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, while we see that Mr Junqueras, his vice president, responsible for the economy, is delighted, therefore, that part of the opposition tells him that he is cool suck and similar things, on the day of yesterday we were to know that the debt of the Government of Catalonia is about 72,000_million euros, huh? – and while we're discussing whether it's cool or not cool – which means that Catalonia's debt at these times is the same as that of the Community of València and the Community of Andalusia together. The international rating agencies have referred to the solvency of the Catalonian Generality placing the Catalonian Generality and its solvency in a failed situation not yet, but announce that they would place it in a failed and unpaid situation. The question, Mr President, is very clear: how do you appreciate the statements made in the last few hours by members of the Government of Spain saying that they would not let down the economy of the Government of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.81.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.82.0	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Congressman, you present things as if the Government of the Spanish State are thanking us and doing us the great favor of financing us. It's his obligation – it's his obligation. And, of course, it's an obligation that never fulfills well or in time. And, therefore, the consequences of these failings in time and form of who has the obligation to finance us, cannot be attributed to this government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.83.0	There's a word from Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.84.0	Mr President, I do not know what virtue I have; your assurance is that you do not answer the concrete questions made by the representative of the People's Party of Catalonia. Here's a reality, Mr Puigdemont. The reality indicates that the debt of the Government of Catalonia in the past year has increased by 12_per_cent; that at these times 60_per_cent of the debt of the Government of Spain is in the hands of the Government of Spain, concretely, for the advances of the payment of the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, when the year 2012, when all this process that is taking Catalonia to a path without exiting, the debt in the hands of the Government of Spain was only 4_per_cent. Today, seeing these data, Mr Puigdemont, Catalonia, economically and financially, is less independent than the year 2012. And all this has provoked it – it has provoked it – you. There is a reality, and it is that, at these times, if the rating agencies, with all the errors, with all that they represent, bring the appreciation of the Catalan economy, of the solvency level of the Generalitat de Catalunya, as I said, failed, the reality is that the international markets would be closing the door to the financing of the Generalitat de Catalunya. And that's one aspect that concerns us very much. Therefore, Mr Puigdemont, we ask you, from the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.85.0	Mr Albiol, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.86.0	...that is dedicated to... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.87.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.88.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. You express concern about the situation of the generality's debt. Generalitat's debt represents, in the conjunction of Catalonia's GDP, 33.6_per_cent. That worries him very much, Mr Albiol. And, besides, I wish I didn't know how many cataclysms because the rating agencies... that haven't said it yet, but they'll say I don't know what. Well, Spain's debt on its GDP is almost 100_per_cent– 100_per_cent. I have not heard him very concerned about a situation that, in any case, I think is unsustainable. More than that, it turns out that 95_per_cent of what Catalonia is recapturing is done by the Spanish State. Give us the ability to retrieve, give us the responsibility to retrieve what we generate, and see if the relationship between entries per capita, expenditure per capita, and the debt that is generated, or the deficits that are generated in this sense correspond to the apocalyptic landscape that you describe or lie more closely than those who defend the construction of a republic are convinced that we will be able to do if we are responsible, this time yes, for the ability to retrieve, the ability to make fiscal policies around this recovery and, therefore, to correspond to the expectations that the international economies can have in a community, in a dynamic European region, as I have just recognized as your Financial Times theme, and not as a community. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.89.0	Dotzena question, about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the repeal of Order BSF/130/2014 concerning the co-payment of benefits for the care of dependent situations]] [[317-00022/11]] Ask the question, Mr. Lluís Rabell, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.90.0	Thank you very much, President. President, very honorable, last week we celebrated an extraordinary plebiscite on social emergence, and we hope that, as soon as it is a timely event, this plebiscite has marked an inflection and that it has placed the social agenda in the permanent concerns of this chamber. It means that the commitments that have been made, while being carried out in many respects, are far from the complex and difficult reality that has been revealed in the debates of this Parliament. And in some particularly painful cases, we would say that the attitude of the Generality still seems to worsen some situations of injustice of some particularly punished collections. Look, it's known and undisputed, for us, the irresponsibility of the Spanish government, the PP government, for what it does to the financing of the law of dependence. Tanmateix, the entry into force of the Order of 22 April 2014 on the assessment of the economic resources of persons benefiting from the Law of Dependency, has created, created situations in which the co-sponsorship practically swallows the resources of these persons. We have cases, real cases, in which people with physical disabilities..., a person who charged 950 euros and paid before 740, with the inn in such order, turns out to pay 913 euros, in co-payment. Therefore, it remains in a situation, truly, to see its resources literally swallowed up. There is a whole series of federations – Dincat, Ecom, Cocarmi – that have made us clear their concern before this situation. And we ask you when you take the decision to repeal an order that causes this situation absolutely intolerable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.91.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, indeed, you have said very well, the Ple de l'emergência social has to serve and will serve to place social policies on the priority of this government's agenda. And so much so, that the conclusions of the Ple – which I have in mind exactly at my service, always, permanent – are already part of the work of the Councillors and Councillors of this Government, because we are in a hurry, we are in a hurry to give answer to the expectations, reasonable, that were generated in that debate. Therefore, from this point of view, we are studying, we are in contact with all these collections, to try to minimize the effects and try to reverse situations that actually worry us. We're at this stage. And, therefore, what I can do is return 'all the results that you will see from this government. But also the warning: it's not the same as having a presumption that you don't have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.93.0	There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.94.0	Yes; indeed, we know and do not ignore the presuppositional and financial difficulties of the Generality. I would just like to remind you of a jifra that has emerged these days: 2015– and it is a theme that seems to be not very pleasant to talk about in this room –, 2015, the Spanish heritage in Catalonia, has recaptivated in tax fraud 2,127_million euros, of which nearly 400, 18_per_cent, correspond to the generality, which shows that, effectively, if we make an effort to look for money where we might be able to face real social emergencies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.95.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.96.0	Thank you very much. I would like to thank him for this indirect invitation to have his own agency and, therefore, to invite him to help us to do this agency and to be able to present far better results than those who are currently responsible for it. The government is already working on this, and, in addition, some information must be kept by you, and, in any case, if you don't have it, it will advise you, with great pleasure, will get you there because, as I said before, for us this is a concern that requires all our emphasis, both internal and external. There are a lot of people who are having a really bad time. And when we talk about people, some people can get names and surnames. And to these collectivities that we are in contact with, that we know about the patience, we know about it, and they are also aware of it, which is the schedule of answers that this government can give them. And this government will give them answers. And he will give them in line with what this Parliament approved in plenary last week. But, I insist, and it is very important that we are all clear: if we want to make policies in the right direction, if we want to give answers in the meetings we have before the people who are going to ask us for their expectations, it is not the same – it is not the same – a government with the assumption that a government without the presumption. And the presupposition is done with bills, with the tickets we have today. Do we want more? Yeah. But the way to keep more is, we, as a minimum, to collect our taxes and be able to make a use of the money generated by this country, which is perfectly able to face up to its situations of emergency and poverty. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.97.0	Tretzena question, about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the impulse of a pact for work]] [[317-00021/11]] The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, the hard work, the precarious work, the increase in inequalities and the poor are the main problems of Catalans and Catalans, and they should also be the centre of our actions. The Socialist Group has asked and asked the Government about these issues on various occasions; we have spoken extensively in last week's specific plenary session, and tomorrow we present a motion for a concrete commitment to promote a pact for work. Mr President, what is your opinion and your commitment to respect?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.99.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.100.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, if what you're asking me is what this government's compromise is in the attention of the unworkable people, in the promotion of occupation, in caring for and overcoming job insecurity, the compromise is absolute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.101.0	There's a word from Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.102.0	Since you couldn't be otherwise, Mr. President. Mr President, on these issues we believe that we need to move from words to facts, from promises to decisions and actions. There are things that can't wait. Our group has always been a defender, and, on many occasions, a promoter, of great cross-cutting and country pacts. And a great pact for dubious work is, more than necessary, essential. And that's why I can't wait seven months. The resolution of the Socialist Group, adopted at last week's plenary session, says – and I quote literally –: "The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to restart contacts with economic and social agents in order to establish the foundations of a social dialogue that allows reforms and guidelines to be agreed to make possible a model of sustainable development, socially, economically and environmentally; an agreement that focuses on our industrial fabric and that aims at economic reactivation in the service of a quality occupation and with rights; an economic model based on growth and innovation and not on job insecurity and wage devaluation. Mr President, in the Balearic Islands, President Armengol has promoted, with economic and social agents, a great pact for competitiveness, quality employment and social progress. We believe that our visions point to the way forward in a transcendental matter. And that's why we're asking him to take the compromise, and that of his government, on the spur of a labor pact that captures the strength of the strategic agreement made by previous governments in Catalonia; that drives the creation of a table with economic and social agents, and that puts us all working together for a new product model, for the social dialogue and for the creation of employment and the better of working conditions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.103.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.104.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, many of the things that you say... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] This government is already doing it. And I, personally, as the president, make myself a... no, a guy, no, because I never, ever like that, but I don't stop meeting with all these agents that you say; listen to them and draw proposals. Some are concrete about particular industrial situations, which require a particular response, and others are sector or global. We must not do so so badly, nor did our predecessors do so so badly, when today's indicators are significantly better than those presented by the Spanish state as a whole, in terms of job creation, in terms of the labour market, in terms of foreign investment, in terms of exports – in fact, in exports, we have struck the historical record of exporting companies. So, despite the problems that we have, and that we are aware of, you will have to recognize that the indicators in this sense of private and public policies to boost the Catalan economy and, therefore, to generate jobs and, therefore, to generate resources to be able to attend to situations of need, even though they are the best ones, are significantly better than those we have and, above all, much better than those that the countries around us have. If they want a pact, which is a concept very similar to this government – this government is a government of a pact, fixed, it is a parliamentary group of pacts, it is a government that, moreover, opens the pact to everyone, and today there has been an exhibition of the government's will to the idea of the pact; it is a very consubstantial thing in DNA, I would say, even more so, of Catalanism in its wide sense – the pact cannot be based on demagogic proposals, incomplicable proposals, proposals that wander in the direction of the struggle from which, for example, the conclusions of the plenary of the poor, which were, I believe, based on reality and on a collective exercise of everyone to make proposals that touch down and respond to real problems. Demagogic proposals that place insurmountable spending on the Generality's premise, it seems to me that it is not willing to make a pact. And, in any case, of the first work pact that we will surely have the opportunity to approve in this Parliament, serious and which will directly affect the situation of work is assumed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.105.0	Fourteenth question, on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the intention to force the employees to pay taxes by means of the Tax Agency of Catalonia]] [[317-00019/11]] Ask the question Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, we have learned that in the coming weeks the Catalan tax agency intends to force the taxes of thousands of taxpayers through a public administration such as the Barcelona Diputación. This fact, of course, has aroused confusion and concern between workers and trade unions, given the possible implications and responsibilities that can be derived, and, of course, also by the management of personal data, very sensitive data related to the declaration of income, by a tax agency that has no competence to collect this type of tax. The question is, what do you think of this situation that public servants are suffering? Do you intend to repeat this situation from other public administrations, for example from the Generalitat, thus placing thousands of civil servants in the same uncertainty situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.107.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.108.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member should be more rigorous in the use of concepts related to tax collection, the responsibilities of administrations, especially the local administration, as in this case, because of the landscape you describe to reality is not that there is a gap: there is an abyss. So be more careful, because it will not only be found that he is insinuating or accusing a public institution of running in practice... – he did not say "illegal, but he was well understood, in his words – when exactly the opposite is true.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.109.0	It has the word the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.110.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Man, you give me lessons of rigor and prudence, a president of the Generalitat who wants to declare independence, no..., will allow me, but it gives me a little laugh. I have not said that it is illegal; I say that you are forcing Catalan taxpayers to enter your IRPF into the Catalan tax agency. And you know why they're doing it like this? Because when you asked voluntarily, do you know how many Catalans ran to the Catalan tax agency to enter their IRPF? Eighty-three. Since you have not done so voluntarily, you now want to force, as always, the guinea pigs of Indians who are the officials. You use the officials to finance you, when it has been the officials from all over Spain who have suffered the most cuts, who have the dubious honor of being the only ones who have not recovered the 2012 pay. That's right, they want to make them partakers of their state structures, and it's really very curious, because, the same week that you yourselves recognize that even in your own party independence seduces everyone and that there will be people in your own party who vote but not independence, you force officials to participate in your separatist obsession. We want to protect officials, because officials have to work impartially, without political interference and without you forcing them to signify themselves politically. Because what will happen to officials who do not want to cooperate, who do not want their personal income data, their compensatory pensions, their sensitive data, to have them by the Catalan tax agency, which has no competence for that? Will they force them to signify themselves, or will they force them to shut up and contribute to their state structures? You are going to try to put the officials between the sword and the wall, and we are not going to allow it, because the officials are the greatest guarantee of a welfare state. And we want the Government of the Generalitat to protect them, pay them when they touch and let them work impartially and neutrally. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.111.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.112.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission, because you will be able to work with peace and independence, and you will be very pleased to see that you fail to serve as a political weapon, because you must work with peace. [[Greetings.]] You will function, which have shown an admirable capacity to serve the country, and I say it every time that I have the opportunity, especially those working in the social sector, those working in education, those working in health..., because you have endured the system, with a few times that no one ever talks, because these are favorable, the quality of the system, the satisfaction of users and the end results, insurmountable. And, therefore, thanks to the functioning of this country, this country works the sea of good. Second question: if there is any political conflict..., who is the judge today there are four ex-executives or four ex-government members, four policies: President Mas, Vice President Ortega, Councillor Rigau and Councillor Homs ; I will work, understand? And if anyone ever had a problem with it, there was a master because he wanted to apply the Language Normalization Law well, huh? And at that time, I didn't feel them worrying about the teachers who are defending the public school and the school in català a little bit from the territory. [[Greetings.]] And finally... [[Widow's remorse.]] And finally – a little calm... – and finally, you deserve more guarantee of compliments from the law a private management than the Barcelona City Council, huh? Why? Why are you doing this? Neither the Barcelona City Council nor the administration has forced anything to work. When an administration, an assembly, or a council, enters its share of the tax agency because it pays it to the Spanish agency, it does the same as many companies or other administrations – together too – are doing with private gestures. Because they do the same: they pay the money and the private management pays the tax agency; and the tax agency has its responsibility to settle the relationship with each contributor. So, don't confound, don't try to present things in such a way that they're not, even though you're specialists...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.113.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.114.0	...because, in the end, reality is much more coughing up than you... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President and the President continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.115.0	Fifteenth question, to the President of the Generalitat. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the definite impulse of the Mediterranean Corridor]] [[317-00024/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.116.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, as some spokesmen have said, last week we were going to hold the monogramme plenary on the poor. We, from our parliamentary group, respond to the enormous difficulties that the Vice-President referred to before, economics, economic limitations of the Generality, we of this plenary in fact a positive appreciation, of the agreements of this plenary. Now the obligation, now the challenge is to make them effective because, because we approve of one thing, reality is not automatically transformed. And here they are. But the House was also talking about something else that called economic recovery, given the fact that the best social policy there can be is that people find and work, that economic recovery is translated precisely into stable and wage-worthy jobs. That's the big goal, isn't it? Along with many fatalisms, along with many speeches of por, along with many lies, therefore, there is a loss of data in Catalonia that certainly invite hope; not cophoism, but hope, and we want to put it in value. And I think we should take advantage of all these opportunities that come. It was said today, but it has to be put in value before this fatalism, right? , which, for example, Catalonia has been designated as the best region in southern Europe to invest this year and the year it sees. The Business and Knowledge Advisor today has provided many examples of positive data. The reflection is the next, isn't it? Imagine how many more opportunities we could have and what only we could have or could be, if we had the infrastructures that we deserve and that we need, and if there wasn't this inversion gap in infrastructure, especially those that are absolutely strategic at all, those that are strategic at the State, or that's what it does to the few. And in this case we are referring to a very strategic one, like the Mediterranean Corridor, all that makes reference to the Mediterranean Corridor, which is absolutely key to consolidating our competitiveness and opening up to the world, and that also means jobs and quality jobs. It is for all this, President, that we ask in a very concrete way what transcends the new government, its government, therefore, to this infrastructure and what actions it has planned in view of its definite momentum.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.117.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.118.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, the value we make, the priority we give him is absolute, it's maximum. It is not the same country, therefore, people, its economy, the competitiveness of its businesses, the salvation of its economic model, with Mediterranean Corridor that without Mediterranean Corridor. In fact, today's Euromed users have already proven what it means to have a Mediterranean straight corridor, huh? There was a regrettable incident that took, if I don't recall correctly, five hours put to rest the main route of railway communication between Catalonia and Valencia, in an absolutely third world way. Therefore, absolute and total priority in the Mediterranean Corridor, because it is an axis of social cohesion, it is an axis of creation of wealth, it is an axis of creation of opportunities, and we, as the responsible government..., and we feel, not alone at all, because I recognize it that from Valencia and the Balearic Islands there are positive news in this sense, but indeed with regard to the Spanish State we feel very alone – very alone – before defending an infrastructure that the European Union considers priority and which, moreover, has opened great opportunities so that we can have its development through the Juncker platform. Therefore, in order for us to take advantage of these strategic alliances and the strategic opportunities, we have decided that we will not only not lower the level of demand and demand for the Spanish Administration of the inexcusable compliments for the city of Catalonia and this part of Europe, but we have gone even further into action, but... In fact, the next day Councillor Rull will meet with Habitatge's head, Public Works and Vertebraço del Governo de la Généralita Valenciana, María José Salvador, because we are already beginning to weave these essential alliances because the Mediterranean Corridor is thriving. At the same time, we are proposing joint instruments for political and technical follow-up and dialogue with the Government of the Spanish State and the European Union, because we want to explain to the European Union that the Spanish State is not complete. And it is not complete, not only with regard to the expectations of Catalans and Valencians, and of the Bats and Andalusians, but of the conjunction of Europe, and of Spain's failure, the invoice also pays for the conjunction of Europe. And in this sense we will constitute a strategic table of the Mediterranean Corridor, which I myself, together with Councillor Rull, will convene in the next few weeks, to which we will also call the administrations and economic and social agents, and we hope that there will be no absences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.119.0	After the control session, let's go to the next item on the order of the day, which is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As this composition is included in the file, which has already been distributed to Members and Members, I urge them to complete their reading. [[Member compatibility situation]] [[234-00145/11 to 234-000147/11]] Completing the rule 49.2, we now move to the next point of the order of the day. The third point on the agenda is the compatibility situation of three Members. The third secretary, Joan Josep Nuet, will read the opinion of the Committee of the Status of Deputies, which has been published in the file. I ask the secretary to proceed to the reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.120.0	« Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of the European Parliament. The Commission of the Statute of the Deputies, at its plenary session on 1 March 2016, agreed to draw up the following opinion. After examining the data declared by the deputies Maria Assumption Laïlla and Jou, Pilar Castilejo Medina and Adriana Delgado and Herreros concerning the professional, labour or business activities they carry out and the public offices they occupy, in addition to Article 23.1b of the Rules, the Commission, taking into account the legislation applicable in the matter of the incompatibilities of the deputies, in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Rules, proposes to the Plenary the compatibility situation of the deputies Maria Assumption Laïlla and Jou, Pilar Castilejo Medina and Adriana Delgado and Herreros. Palau del Parlament, March 1, 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.121.0	Can this opinion be considered approved by consent? [[Pause.]] As there was no objection, the opinion was adopted. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 12/2009, of 10 July, of education, for the elimination of concerts of the schools that separate by gender (debate of totality)]] [[202-00007/11]] And now we move to the fourth point of the order of the day, which is the debate of totality on the proposed law amending Law 12/2009, of 10 July, of education, for the elimination of the concerts of the schools that separate by sex. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, she presents the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Ms.Jessica Albiach. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.122.0	Is that all of us? Well, good morning to everyone. First of all, I would like to thank the company Joan Mena, who now has the proposal of the law we are debating today, because it was his and now in our faith, and the Circle of Feminisms of Pode Catalunya, which helped me prepare this intervention. It was the year 2009 and the Government of the Generality there was a tripartite, a tripartite in which Initiative and United Left were, there was Republican Left and there was the PSC. In those moments, Initiative and United Left was left alone fighting against an article; against the same article we are debating today, article 43 of the Catalan Education Law. If you've agreed at those times, we wouldn't be giving them back to this demeanor. Anyway, Socialists and gentlemen, we are happy that you have changed your mind and we encourage the rest of the groups in the chamber to show the progress that both this Parliament preaches to us and, therefore, to vote against the threat to the totality that you have presented together for the Yes and the People's Party. Already in October 2013 we missed a magnificent opportunity to end the public funding of sex-secretive schools, because Convergence and Union and the People's Party agreed. And today we're going back to the same situation. What we see in this whole thing is what we often denounce: that PP and Convergence are the same right, they are just as conservative and elitist, and they act just as when it comes to defending the interests of the privileged and the most retrograde ideas. They have done so with this in totality, they have done so by amending Article 135 of the Constitution, they have done so by granting the relief of disability and they have done so with labour reform. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, independent deputies and deputies – who remain, of course – we invite you to vote differently from Convergence and the PP, and to be consistent with what they have always defended. The reality that we find is that in Catalonia, seven Catalan schools regented for Opus Dei receive 30_million euros annually from public funds, subsidies that have not been affected, as well as educational details of the last time they have reached up to 20_per_cent. And what are the arguments behind these concerts? Well, there are arguments about the superiority of the segregated school based on differences in the development and maturity of children, differences in the behaviors and attitudes of children that imply a negative effect, such as now the school breakdown or violence that exists in a mixed education. If the argument is modern, the appeal is ancient: it is the naturalization of inequality that puts the concept of equality under suspicion, because it is an unfair and homogenizing criterion in the face of natural diversity between men and women. This is a recurring argument that has already been used, for example, by Rousseau. But what this holds is an ideological position, a position that denies the importance of the social entourage in the transmission of genes and seeks support in biologic differences to postulate a segregated education that would respond to a natural need; it is a reaction against the advents of women and changes that these generate in society, which pose in peril the maintenance of androcentric institutions, such as, for example, religious ones. It is not by chance that only the reduction of segregated schools linked, in its majority, to religious orders. And I can only see that it was the Franco dictatorship that regained gender segregation and eliminated the co-education that was already in the Second Republic. The affirmation of the superiority of the segregated school is the argument that holds that men and women must play different roles in society, and therefore we must be educated differently. Marina Subirats has already said: "Educating separately has only felt if it is based on the idea that each sex has to have a different social function, and therefore that women and men do not have to enjoy the same possibilities. So, well, men and women must be free to adopt all kinds of papers in life according to their abilities and tastes, and a separate education that does is to foster the old stereotypes of the traditional sexual division, which they no longer have felt, today, in our society. Such a time you will tell me that countries like the United States or Germany apply each time more to this segregating model to fight against school failure. And I'm telling them we don't want an educated model like Germany or the United States. In Germany, already in secondary education, four types of schools are involved, according to the abilities of the students and according to the recommendations of the teacher, and only to one group, the most privileged, the most intelligent suppositories, prepare for the university; and the rest, limit their expectations through education. If the Convergence and PP model is Germania, it should be remembered that this model has rejected critical names from both UNESCO and OECD, because it has not managed to overcome the low school success of working classes and immigrants. And, for what he does in the United States, there are five hundred schools that secrete by sex; more than the fifth part are in South Carolina, one of the most unequal and racist states in the United States. Therefore, it counts on the referents that they want to fill us in. They say that segregated schools increase school income, especially maths in girls, and that, in addition, they reduce violence and school failure in girls. Let's not be fooled, these segregated concerted centres go to families with a high level of acquisition and culture. They are choices with endowments and resources that a public school does not have, and these are the explanatory variables of school success, and not sexual division, as they want us to believe. At these heights, classifying people for their genera is retrograde. We men and women have a female and a male share, and each one develops more and more depending on its head and not on its body. Each scene evolves according to its feeling and personal freedom. The labels are not from this century, and if anyone wants to keep applying them to be paid, they cannot expect the Public Administration to do so. But we don't just have social and generative arguments against segregated education. The Catalan Education Law, the Statute and the Constitution defend a model of education that is governed by the values of a democratic society: personal freedom, responsibility, solidarity, respect and equality. The Education Act prohibits discrimination by sex in priority criteria in access to educational centres. I, in Article 2 of the LEC already considers that real and effective equality between men and women must be promoted. Sex segregation is contradictory to these principles, since it gives all principles of equality. That's why there are no public schools that differentiate by sex in Catalonia, as it would go against legal order. But you see here that the Generalitat did maintain polite concerts with some Catalan schools that secrete by sex. Curious and intolerable. And if we're talking about the free choice of center by parents and mothers, let's remember that the LEC has a computer and rector principle that is the real and effective equality between women and men and co-education. According to the Statute, the Administration has the obligation to offer a public and quality school that follows a tool of equal opportunity and also recognizes that private teaching centres can be supported with public funds, according to what they determine the laws, but does not have the obligation to respond to the demand for religious lobbying. It's more, they can't..., they can't, from public powers, foster something that goes against our legal postulates. We cannot, therefore, from Parliament or from the Government, legitimize, nor encourage educational models that tend against the principle of equal opportunities and, moreover, normalize the differentiation between women and men. If we tolerate it, we're twisting the main tool we have to continue to improve our society, and it's education. What we propose is very simple. And it's not about violating anyone's right to choose the center you want to study in, and it's not about violating the right of the owners of the affected schools to keep their project educated. It's a matter of doing it in the private sphere and not with the public resource owner. The school must be like real life; it must be a pedagogical environment where to learn tolerance, respect and collaboration from cultural, functional, sexual, origin and genera diversity, cannot become a cylinder. Coeducation involves precisely this: the promotion of an education that enhances the real equality of opportunities and the elimination of all forms of discrimination, as well as integration, explicitly and with learning contents, from the gender perspective. You often talk about disconnection. So, well, here and today we do have the real possibility to disconnect, to disconnect from retrograde policies like Minister Wert's LOMCE, to differentiate ourselves and to consolidate a model suitable for català, like the LEC, but as a political will; a will absent during the last legislature, on behalf of Constellera Rigau, and it seems, for this purpose, to the totality, that also lacks political will on the part of the current Constellera. We can approve today this amendment of the LEC to end the privileges of some at the expense of public education. The holding of these concerts costs Catalans and Catalans 30_million euros annually. If we think that the construction of a school costs around 3_million euros, in Catalonia we have fewer schools to defend co-education; fewer schools to defend an equal and just model of society, and fewer schools to defend the construction of a society that takes into account gender justice. When we get to this point, we have to decide whether we want a society in which men and women have different characteristics, habits and emotions, that we lead them to different positions, tasks and social roles. Or if, in change, we consider that we should not mark destiny and social roles from sex and, therefore, do not call segregated spaces. This is the real distinction between who's in segregated school and who's in co-education. We have legal, social and generative motives. I insist again, Republican Left and Junts independents for the Yes, continue to be consistent, remain courageous and explicitly forbid schools that secrete for sex – sex – rebin public money. Desmountin... [[The joker laughs.]] Sexy... disassemble the armor that pleases these schools. We don't just ask, do we? In fact, Councillor Romeva was already asking before the European Commission with his questions. Therefore, they remain coherent, they remain courageous and, for the common good, we need that the schools that public money earns remain co-educative, secular and feminist. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.123.0	Next, in order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes has the word Ms. Anna Simó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.124.0	Good morning, president, councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies. Mrs Albiach, we are all brave, 135 Members of this Parliament. What we need to be clear and responsible – and responsible, not irresponsible. And say things by his name and don't store the egg, and above all don't make a fuss. Let's get to the point. What does the purpose of the law say? And what did we discuss together for the Yes of what the law's purpose says? So, first of all, the same supporting memorandum; the supporting memorandum says that two Supreme Court judgments, section IV of the content room, leave out the legality of concerts with the schools and institutes that secrete by sex. These schools which only admit students of one sex or another may exist in our education system, but, as the Supreme Court says, these centres are excluded from the possibility of conciliating with the Administration competent for their support with public funds. I agree with what the Supreme says, because that's what the Supreme says. But in any case, these Supreme's sentences are dated June 26, 2012 and July 24, 2012. And, both the writings of LOE-LOMCE – i.e., the modified LOE for LOMCE –, as the laws of the general assumptions of the summer 2013, as the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, seek to give legal coverage to the differentiated school concert. The Supreme's sentences, I repeat, are of June and July 2012, and the LOMCE comes into force the generation of 14, and article 17 of the general assumptions of the State of 2013, the September of 2012. Therefore, the supporting memory of his law's proposal has lapsed, lapsed through all subsequent legislation. I'm saying that because that's what it is. And you came into this proposal to read the 2013 genera for the first time, when the general assumptions of the 2013 summer had already come into force, even if not the LOMCE. And re-enter this proposal of the December 2015 law with the identical supporting memory. The presentation of motius – which I now enter –, identical, obviating the feelings of the Constitutional, the LOMCE, and, yes, modifying, modulating the articulation. Because... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We're talking about disconnection, Mr. Coscubala. Because it's the People's Party, with the absolute majority, that shields judicially – and says judicially, because we're not talking about lawlessness, we're talking judicially – concerts with LOMCE and with the laws of state assumptions. Prior to the approval of LOMCE, the Law of the Presuppositions of the State 2013 was motivating enough to drop the revocation of the concerts to the Andalusian Junta and to sketch the plane of the two Sentences of the Supreme. That's right, I'm referring to the later sentences. LOMCE entered into force on the 14th generation. The LOE, Article 84.3, before being amended for LOMCE, what did it say? "In no case will there be discrimination by reason of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. Go on, all right. What does this same LOE article say after going through LOMCE? "The admission of pupils to the organization of gender-differentiated education does not constitute discrimination, provided that it is developed in accordance with the provisions of article 2 of the Convention... In no case may the choice of gender-differentiated education involve less favourable treatment or disadvantage for the families, pupils and pupils and centres concerned in entering into concerts with the educational authorities or in any other way. And, in case there were any doubts left to someone and you left some hole or some lock, the legislator made a transitional provision according to the LOMCE, which says: "Temporary application of Article 84.3 of the Organic Law on Education. Private centres which were refused in 2013 the renewal of the educational concert or reduced the school units concluded for the sole reason of offering sex-differentiated education may request the application of Article 84.3 of this Organic Law– « of this our organic law only the lack to say –« for the rest of the current period of concerts within two months of its entry into force. Say'm...', say 'none of the disconcerted center after the LOMCE ran away from the State, rule right or left governments. Tell us... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no... – no, no... I'm saying because I want to make it clear that we disagree with what the supporting memory says, in what it takes like a red iron to the Supreme's feelings that have been passed three years ago! What does the motion statement say about the law's proposition? He says that the wording of Article 43 of the LEC on the principle of co-education by means of mixed schooling, which must be the object of preferential attention – works of art – "is ambiguous and contradictory, as indicated by the Consulting Council in its Opinion 294 of 10 June 2009. And that's why they want to change the LEC, to unambiguate it. So, well, I have read from the right and the reverse the wording of the Opinion of the Consulting Council, now the State Guarantee Board, on the Education Law Project to which it refers, and what we extract is that what is clearly said is the opposite, obre comets, "that between the principles of financing to support private centres, whether or not ordinary – concerted centres – or not – subsidised centres – provided for in Article 205 of the Project, it cannot be disregarded Article 43.1 of the Project, the letter of which refers to the principle of coeducation by means of mixed schooling, which must be the object of preferential attention. And he goes on to say: "This, as we have observed, is one of the foundations of Catalonia's education system, which will also affect the criteria for granting grants to non-concerted private centres, as aid cannot be held against the general principles of the law. I mean, what do I get the consult say? That mixed schooling configures the LEC as a requirement to be able to access public funding through the educational concert, and even not just from the concert, but from the simple grant; that is to say, they could not receive public resources, according to the Consulting Council. Therefore, we disagree on what we have argued of the foundations upon which his purpose of law is based, both for what they say in the supporting memory and for the presentation of motive. U, of its supporting memorandum, that the LOE-LOMCE and the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court legally endorse any appeals or application of any school title in the withdrawal of concerts– any. And two, of his presentation of motive, we disagree, as he said at the moment, because, contrary to what you read from the Opinion of the Consult, what we read from the Consult is that unconcerted private centres can organize themselves by using the gender-differentiated model of schooling whenever they guarantee the effectiveness of the principle of education, and that, on the other hand, in the event that these centres tend to remain in the Education Service of Catalonia through their concertation, they need to adopt the mixed model of education. And the expression that must be a preferred object of attention reinforces the requirements of mixed schooling, not ambiguous ones. Therefore, it is not that we do not follow valiant, none of the deputies of Junts for the Yes, it is that we do not consider this proposal of law necessary, that it does not bring res legislatively, nor change anything, because it is not the LEC that needs to change. Another thing is the debate. And now I'm going where you were looking for certain members, deputies and deputies of Junts for the Yes. One time I said this, yesterday I read a headline of a press release from Catalonia Yes that's Pot: "Catalonia Yes that's Pot, place ERC and Junts' independents for Yes to vote in favor of the law's proposal to withdraw the concerts to Opus' schools. And, still, not three minutes before initiating his intervention, he has already asked directly to the MPs – some MPs and MPs – of Junts for the Yes. And the press release continues: "To succeed in adopting a text that would end public subsidies to Opus schools and separate children and children. That wouldn't be the case, for which I just explained. And he kept saying... – he didn't say it today, or yes..., well, he did say it, he came to say it – "It costs us to see certain Members and Members voting in line with the PP. She said that yesterday and she repeated it today, the committee companion, benevolent Mrs. Albiach. To me, the point is that the object of resubmitting this bill with expired funds, because..., it's not differentiated education, it's differentiated votes from Juntes for the Yes. That's what you're looking for. [[Some applause and fondness.]] Together for the Yes, I say it again, to repeat, and I think it comes to light, they know us all sixty-two, we are a group with ideological diversity, we are a group with plural positions, also about the concertation of educational centers that do not have mixed schooling. But all of us, one behind the other of the sixty-two deputies of Junts for the Yes, are compromised with the program that we have submitted to the elections to Parliament, which passes to maintain and deploy the LEC, so as not to modify an instrument like the LEC in a few moments when point-sucking, cool sucking or not... [[remorse of the voice]] , with LOMCE and the courts, until we have a law that is not subject to basic state law. And that means, and we repeat it and we will repeat it again, that this country obviously has a debate to make on the education system that we want. And then we all have to put our reasons to respect, but to make a new law, an organic law, that is not subject to either LOMCE or any other organic law, or laws of the assumptions of the State. We will not vote because we can amend the LEC, this legislature. Neither today nor in any other modification of the LEC that comes into this legislature. No, no, [[Greetings.]] That's why we've come in... and the sixty-two deputies of Junts for the Yes, for the reasons I've thought about, we'll vote in favour of the whole thing. Amen, Mr. Coscubala. Go on. And I finished the sermon, Mr. Coscubila. They want to know different positions, really, yeah? Do you want to know ideological postures? Because it seems like that's the only thing they care about. Yeah? So, I'm reading the motion for a resolution that a couple of twenty deputies from Junts for the Yes we registered a long time ago, with four points. [[Joan Coscubila Conesa says: «Chupi cool.]] It's very cool, yes, Mr. Coscubala, this motion for a resolution. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So cool that we'll vote together, so many of us here, with you, when this motion for a resolution is submitted to debate and vote. And in his fourth point, he says: "To make complete in the totality of the teaching centers, through which the Education Service of Catalonia is provided, the principle of co-education through mixed schooling established in articles 2.1, letter m, and 43.1, letter d, of the Education Law of Catalonia. In this sense, the Catalonian Parliament urges the Government that once the validity of the current general period of educational concertation is completed, no new concert is renewed and no new concert is given to the centre that conducts sex-segregated schooling. Many thanks, Mrs Albiach; many thanks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.125.0	To defend the emena to the totality, presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word María José García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.126.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank all the people in the educational world who accompany us: parents, educators, teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot that proposes to amend the LEC so that the schools that apply the pedagogical model of differentiated education leave the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya and cannot receive public funding. With this, he says his proposal, what is intended is to prestige public education, to guarantee equity and to overcome school failure. Also, the inclusive school, which seems incompatible to you, seems illogical..., if the pedagogical model of the differentiated is part of the Servei d'Educació. And it is clear that we too want to see public education, inclusive, equitable and overcome school failure. The question is whether or not the existence of differentiated education affects this objective. More considering that if this bill were passed, and the centres that apply differentiated education were to leave the Servei d'Educació, many families, most of them, would not be able to pay for it. Therefore, the first thing is to analyze the basis of Catalonia's proposal Yes, it is Pot to assure us of whether the change it proposes – and which would directly affect the lives of many people – is fair, sensible, and whether or not it is properly justified. Well, the first problem to support this proposal is that it is not argued with rigor or objectivity. This explanatory statement seems more like a political pamphlet full of apriorism and ideology. And when we start with dogmatic assumptions, which are not true, subjective opinions, interested misrepresentations, value judgments or limited and exclusive valuations, we believe that it is impossible to make fair and sensible proposals. Let's go in parts. The first statement of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot is that differentiated education is « unconstitutional, but not because the Constitutional Court has said it, because no judgment is cited, it is « unconstitutional because it has been decided by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, it is seen that self-erected, since 4 December, when the proposed amendment of the LEC was registered, in the Catalan delegation of the Constitutional Court. As you can see, the first false premise. And, moreover, it is a subjective opinion of this group, without foundation and without legal rigour. The proposal goes on to talk about two Supreme Court rulings, which left these concerts out of the law. That is, of the legality of 2006, the LOE, which effectively prohibited these concerts. Legality in this modified aspect and which is no longer in force, and has already been amended by the new Organic Education Act adopted in 13. In fact, this new law, the LOMCE, was the one that allowed in 2014 twelve different schools in Andalusia to recover the concert that the Board had denied them, supporting themselves precisely in these two sentences. Therefore, the case law of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – this one that feces here – has been out of date and cannot be incorporated today into a proposal of law that pretends to have a minimum legal solvency. As you see, the second argument based on an interested misrepresentation of reality. Next, the proposal goes back to explaining to us what education was like at the beginning of the twentieth century, during the Republic, Francoism and the Transition, and comes to the conclusion that that anachronistic education that formed obedient women to care for the family, that formed authoritarian men to support the family is the pedagogical principle of differentiated education, a very simplistic argument that denotes ignorance, I don't know if real or set, of this pedagogical model, is a judgment of value, a dogmatic premise without real foundation that is used to reinforce a predetermined conclusion. Follow Catalonia's proposal Yes, it is Pot with categorical assertions and without argumentation, like that the differentiated one is discriminatory and this delegitimizes it to access the concert. Don't think about it. That's right, it excludes from the concert families who pay their taxes simply because they choose a pedagogical model that Catalonia Yes, it is Pot does not approve. Similarly, Catalan teachers, educators, pedagogues or specialists who defend differentiated education, which there are, remain out of our category, according to Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which, with a limited and exclusive vision of Catalan reality, selects as ours those who agree with them, and the others are not even worthy to appear or be mentioned in the proposal. And it doesn't seem logical to Catalonia either. Yes, it is Pot that differentiated school can be inclusive. Again, this denotes a deep ignorance or an interested misrepresentation of the inclusive reality of many different schools and that so many families with children with special educational needs know so well. As we have explained to you, this proposal for a law raises arguments that are not supported and that do not seem to us to justify with a minimum of rigour that differentiated teaching should leave the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya. In fact, it could be argued that presenting differentiated education as an anachronistic and illegitimate pedagogical model to extract the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya is an ideological, intolerant and regressive proposal that what it would achieve is to cut individual freedoms and rights. See if it will be ideological this proposal that at no time is called education differentiated by its name. They tell us about segregated education, segregated education or segregation, always using pejorative words and negative connotation, using partisan language in favor of ideological approaches and to the detriment of the rigour or the expected impartiality of any proposed law. The proposal is also intolerant because, without reasoned arguments opposed or objective, it burdens against plurality and freedom of education and violates the right of parents to choose the educational model for their children, which, being legitimate, is in accordance with the values or principles of these families. And choose it on equal terms, without discrimination on social or economic grounds. Freedom of education and the right to choose enshrined in the Constitution, the Statute, the Declaration of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the European Parliament and also the Declaration of Human Rights. The question, therefore, is whether or not differentiated education is objectively a legitimate model, in accordance with the law, to which parents can choose without being discriminated against by the Administration. Well, the Supreme Court, in those two judgments that Catalunya Yes that is Pot has presented to us decontextually, explains that this model is a legitimate model as long as it does not imply an inequality of opportunities for students. Exactly in the same vein as UNESCO expressed in 1960 in the Convention against Discrimination in Education, signed by Spain, ratified in 1969 and signed by the UN in 1999, which in its article 2 literally states: "In the event that the State admits them, the following situations shall not be considered as constituting discrimination: a. The establishment or maintenance of separate educational systems or establishments for male and female students, provided that such systems or establishments offer equivalent facilities in access to education, have equally qualified teaching staff, school premises and a team of equal quality and enable the same curricula or equivalent programmes to be followed. It seems pretty clear. It would not be legitimate; the UN would not endorse – and neither would we – schools where, depending on the gender of students, different subjects were taught with different teachers or with facilities of different quality. It would not be legitimate for a model to constitute an inequality in the conditions under which education is received or in the very education received; but if the conditions are equivalent and the gender difference of the student is the only difference, there is no discrimination according to UNESCO. And if there is no educational discrimination and the model is therefore legitimate, parents have the right to choose it, if they wish, and they must be able to choose it without discrimination. And that is why the Administration would act with arbitrariness and sectarianism if it denied the concert to these centers for purely ideological reasons. They see that there are no legal grounds, no discrimination, no legitimacy. It is therefore a question of legitimacy but, above all, it is a question of individual freedoms and rights that must be respected in an advanced society that has already overcome the a prioriism and ideological conditioning of those who seek to model a uniform society by laminating the plurality that is logical and desirable in any democratic, healthy and free society. And finally, the proposal is also regressive, because if what matters to us is educational quality, entering data, objective information, differentiated education is a model that grows in the countries of our environment because it is considered a model of success. The low rate of school failure is an objective fact. For example, here in Catalonia, in 2012, the differentiated recorded a 1.33_per_cent failure in male schools and a 0.59_per_cent failure in female schools. And looking at the reality of the countries of the environment: in Britain, Germany, Canada or Australia, schools of differentiated education have a prestige based on the results of their students and also on their subsequent professional development. Different public schools exist in these countries and parents can access them free of charge. French legality considers it a model that should not be discriminated against. In the United States, as well as in public education, 500 centres have been converted into separate education in less than ten years, up to a total of 1,890. And look, very relevant American women have been trained in these centers, such as Hillary Clinton, who know that she is possibly going to be the candidate for the White House and, perhaps, the first woman president of the United States; or Condoleezza Rice, also the first national security advisor and already know that she was a fairly uncoupled secretary of state..., pardon, rather uncoupled, and Sally Ride, also the first astronaut woman of NASA. Also the current president, Barack Obama, explicitly supports this model as a solution to school failure. In all these countries differentiated education is no anomaly, it is no ideological option that harms the equity, inclusion or success of the public school, as Catalonia is arguing Yes, it is Pot, because in these countries, overcome precisely ideological apriorisms, it opts for pragmatism and freedom. In these countries, the Administration supports what works by giving parents options and freedom; legitimate options and freedom, even to be wrong, but freedom for parents to exercise the right to choose the educational or pedagogical model they prefer without discrimination on social or economic grounds. In fact, look, it is exclusive and elitist to take out these centers from the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya simply because the pedagogical model does not share it Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, so that only families can choose them that can pay them. It is also a matter of freedom of education. Look, we understand that the Administration must promote the plurality of educational models as long as they are legitimate models and consistent with legality. And finally, it is also a matter of talent and democratic quality to admit and facilitate access to the educational system supported with public funds of any pedagogical model that is legitimate, that is legal, that provides quality and opportunities, precisely, even if it is not the one we would choose. Because only from respect for the plurality and the right of everyone to make their decisions, only from recognition of the legitimacy of other approaches that are contrasted, only from the radical and determined defense of individual rights will we be on the side of freedom and democratic coexistence. The rest, the intransigence and sectarianism of those who seek to impose on others what they do not like, of those who seek to make difficult what is not worth him, does not go with us or believe that they are beneficial attitudes for the general interest. We oppose to cut freedom, we oppose to educate in uniformity and to condition the choice of families by dogmatism or ideology, because it is the parents who are responsible for the education of their children and the Administration does not have to decide for us. And finally, it must be said that this proposal does not have any route as long as the LOMCE, of higher legal rank than the LEC, remains in force, because in this Parliament we are incompetent to approve anything that contradicts an organic law. In short, we have not found objective, valid and contrasted arguments to remove differentiated education from the public system. We have, however, presented to you here legal, competitive, educational, international and democratic arguments to defend the amendment to this proposal as a whole. But perhaps, look, the most important argument is the defence of individual freedom against coercion and imposition, the defence of the right to choose against one-sided thinking and uniform society. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is where we've always been. We're a reliable party. We want and defend a quality and plural educational system in the image of the society in which we live; that it does not penalize any legitimate educational option for ideological reasons; a system accessible to all where no alternative is reserved to those who can afford it. We want to eradicate ideological prejudices and guarantee true freedom of opportunity, true equality of opportunity for our children. And finally, we want to guarantee freedom to any parent so that he or she can choose the pedagogical model consistent with the legality he or she considers appropriate, whether or not we choose. Because this is the essence of respect and freedom in advanced democratic societies. For this reason, we have tabled the amendment in its entirety and we call for support for this amendment in this Chamber to all those who are in favour of defending freedom without excuses or nuances. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.127.0	Then, to turn against, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.128.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caves. We didn't expect any of you. That's all I'm gonna say. Anna Simó, 2014: "Differentiated education is neither our option nor can it be financed with public funds. We also read your press notes. And what you have done here today is not to be brave; what you have done here today is to shield yourself in Spanish legislation, which you want to disconnect from, not to say clearly that you will support and align with Convergence and the People's Party. What we've been listening to here today has been an excuse from one another, and the question is very clear: are they against or against the concertation of the choices that secrete by sex? Now it turns out that for the justifiable memory, for the presentation of motius, for legal minorities, they present a statement to the totality. So let's not vote and reform the memory and present it and vote it together. It's easy, it can be done, it can be done. I, if I have asked you exactly, if I have asked you precisely, I ask you because I want people to be happy and because we know that when a coherent person is more likely to be happy than we think he is. As we understand, the internal cohesion of Junts for the Yes is relatively indifferent to us. Citizens of Catalonia have not paid us to think about the internal cohesion of Junts for the Yes. Catalans and Catalans pay us to defend their rights and to improve every day the education of their children. We are here to take steps to help improve the quality of life of people, to reduce school failure and to see how we can make education a tool of social ascent. That's more than that. Together for the Yes is important, but not so much because we dedicate our efforts and our thoughts to it. In his presentation, we have only heard of you, of us, read the statement, and of the supporting memory. We didn't listen to him... yes, from the LEC and the LOMCE. We didn't listen to her talk about school, we didn't listen to her talk about children, we didn't listen to her talk about values, we didn't listen to her talk about an educational project. We don't know whether they want it to be secret or not, and why and why not. Now present a PR. Let's see if it's one of many PRs we get back to every week, every fortnight, at the Teaching Commission; those that haven't been complete since two, three, four and five years ago. Choices that come and say to us: "This has been approved and is not yet complete. Is this PR going to be a PR type? Let's hope not. We would be much more comfortable with a law proposal that would be legally nugated. I'm done. What they've done today can be very qualified, but it's not left-wing, it's not progressive, it's not brave. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.129.0	Then, to fix its position, has the word the lady Sonia Sierra, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.130.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, deputies, deputies and members of the educational community who are accompanying us today. "What I see here, as a teacher, is a series of small decisions that will influence schools, the daily work of schools, but to order and exercise coercion on adults rather than to increase the quality of students' learning. It's all about the adults. Nothing to do with enthusiasm for knowledge or for the future world, to know. I lack enthusiasm for knowledge, in the document. These words were spoken by Swedish philosopher and well-known teacher Inger Enkvist, in October 2009 to the Teaching Commission of this Parliament, and the document to which the LEC refers. We share these words, because we are not in favour of the LEC, and we also consider, like Mrs. Inger Enkvist, that it is a law that shows more interest in ideological principles than it does not excite knowledge. And the same happens to us with this proposition of law: that we seem to lack enthusiasm for knowledge. This same amendment proposal, as has already been said, presented the initiative for Catalonia Verds - United Left and Alternative in October 2013, and we then voted in favour. And we voted in favour because we believe that differentiated education should not be financed with public money. But in no case do we share your hurtful language. The word "segregating" has some negative connotations that no one escapes and that we believe are not adhesive when this separation is done voluntarily. No one in the world is told to secrete students when some go to religion and others as an alternative to religion, or some go to the French class and others go to the IT class. It may be recalled, for example, that from the feminism of difference there are those who defend sex-separated education, especially British feminists, and, every day, from the end of the century and beginning of that century, and today, North American feminists. Because you know perfectly well, Mrs. Albiach, that we cannot talk about feminism, but about feminisms, in plural, because there are many feminist practices, and in many cases they are counterpossible. In fact, things of life, in Islam a differentiated school has won a prize for gender equality. Things of life. Anyway, he's not our model, I said. Our model is a mixed, co-educated model. And that's why we think the state doesn't have to finance it. But we respect the plurality of options. Fortunately, we no longer live in Francoism, and different choices of girls are not there to do their jobs, are they? They have a curriculum the same as they have the rest of the schools, as it couldn't be in any other way. You have to listen to the educational community. But the whole educational community, not just a part. And differentiated schools, and families that decide freely to bring their children and their daughters to differentiated schools, are part of this educational community. Along with all this, there are things about his motivating exposure that don't just coincide with reality. They say, for example, that the idea of co-education in Spain culminates in the Second Republic, which he bet for a mixed school law at the public school. And that's true. But, of course, it is necessary to explain that, in practical effects, 70_percent of the schools during the Second Republic were differentiated schools. I mean, the mixed model wasn't even the majority model in the Second Republic. They also speak in this proposal of law, and I quote textually..., they say it is a proposal..., as a tool of prestige of public school to guarantee fairness and prevent and overcome school failure. This statement, of course, is not supported by place. The fact that it is concertin or not different choices has nothing to do with the school failure of the public. I take back the words of Mrs Enkvist to the intervention she said to them before: "If the one who wants to be a quality public school, the one that needs to be done is to bet on this quality public school. Do not enter into a sterile debate of yourself public school or concerted school. If we really want a quality public school, what we have to do is fight all the folds to end the ferocious detail that Mrs Rigau did during her term. [[Some applause.]] That's why we see a lot of party ideology and a lot of enthusiasm for knowledge and for the real best of education. Do you know where Spain hurts me? So, well, to me, my education hurts. What really hurts me is education. And that's why I'm in a party like Citizens..., which has education as one of its main concerns and which advocates for a pact, a national pact for education, a pact that must be a pact of consensus, a pact on tothom can find comfortable, the different parties, the different sensitivities and the educational community. But the whole educational community, not just the part that one or the other likes. We want a national education pact that teachers and teachers have as an essential part of that system, which the best professionals want to work in education. And this is achieved by prestige of the teacher's profession and by doing a good training, with an MIR menu like what we have in sanitation. We do not want to be in a constant loop of partisan discussions of different educational models. We want to reach a consensus and that this national pact for education serves us for a whole generation, and not that I changed every legislature depending on whose governments. As I said, you put forward this bill in October 2013 and we voted for it. And then, on October 30, 2014, the PSC made a very similar proposal and we abstained. And we didn't vote for it for you and with the others we abstained because we fell a lot nicer to each other. Because Ciutadans doesn't work that way. There's a match, huh? , who vote out of sympathy for who presents things. Not us. We are more objective, more rational, and look at the pros and cons of each of the proposals that come forward. If we changed our voting sense, it is because, as has already been said, in December 2013 LOMCE was approved, and this law, in its article 1.61, guarantees that the centres that have opted for gender differential education will be able to subscribe to concerts with the educational administrations that complement certain requirements. We are not in favour of LOMCE. We think that the PP has taken advantage of the absolute majority to make a law that surely they like very much but that has put it against all opposition and much of the educational community. For this reason, we, I have already said, advocate for a national pact for education that is the result of consensus. But as long as this law continues in force, it has to be completed. It's not about a political issue, it's about how the right state works. LOMCE is an organic law, huh? It's not a legal detail, they said around here, and in Catalonia's jurisdictional framework we have to complete it. And in case the LOMCE is revoked, because there is a change of government, which can't be what they say in six months we end the concerts. No, no, People who have opted for a type of education with economic conditions cannot change the rules in half of the game. Nor can we leave areas without these concerts. Because not all of these schools, as they said, are elite. There are areas that are not so economically favourable and have this type of school. We cannot allow half-play rules to be changed and families left and students left unprotected. We will abstain, in this quest to the totality. But we abstain because we think that we need to talk about the themes of the concerts and that we need to talk about the differentiated schools, but that it must be a debate, a pedagogical debate, not a debate of preconceived postures, a debate where all the parties involved are heard with respect. Because many times in Catalonia it costs a lot to talk about education without insulting you if you defend according to what postures. We had a good test yesterday. But, well, we have the effect that many of the different parties are subordinated to the collective interest of partisan interests and that many have before their ideology in accounts to put before the defense of education as well as the common good, which is what we think is education, a common good, and as we have to defend it. As I said at the beginning: "Everything has to do with adults. Nothing has to do with enthusiasm for knowledge, for the future world, for knowledge. I lack enthusiasm for knowledge, in the document. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.131.0	Next, the words of Mrs Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.132.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, honourable Councillor, honourable Members, before we vote in favour of this bill, and therefore against the totality papers presented by Junts for the Yes and the PP. In fact, look what he's been doing since 2013, politically speaking. But in certain questions we are exactly where we were then, in fact, when this very debate was produced from two proposals of law presented on your day for the Initiative for Catalonia Verds and another for my group, for the Socialist Group, which were certainly also stuck for Convergence and Union, then, and the People's Party. In fact, there are things with a strong ideological component. We'll see about some interventions that don't change. But a little they have changed. In this case, with bad news, it is that at these moments Together for the Yes represents Convergence, but also Republican Left, a game that until a few years ago had shared the need, at least, to review these concerts on the basis of a criteria of fairness, which, this has ceased to be so. And, in fact, we see, and we are surprised to see, how obedience to the LOMCE overcomes them. Because for some things they ask for disobedience and for others you already see that..., strict compliment of the law. So, well, the Socialist Group, on the sidelines of this processing of this bill's proposal, in which... today we will not enter its contents, has also entered a proposal for the law's own modification of the LEC, which we hope is also discussed in this House well soon, and in fact we would have liked to have been together, even though we already know that Together for the Yes will fall, as Mrs Simó has well announced. Well, ours is a proposal to change the point d of the LEC's computer principles, of the provision of Catalonia's education service, maintaining the principle of co-education but making it clear that it must be developed by means of mixed schooling, and therefore do not allow the possibility of segregation by gender, even though it was not preferable, as happens at these times. Similarly, in our proposal we would amend Article 205 in accordance with this principle relating to the financing of the support of private centres providing the education service in Catalonia, with a transitional arrangement for which it would give a year from the end of the course in which the law would be approved to the private teaching centres providing this public service to complete with the new conditions..., to adapt to mixed schooling, and which would allow the department to suspend public resources intended for these mentioned centres that have not been completed with the requirement of mixed schooling, so without compensation. It is to say that the objective we intend is to stop financing publicly the choices that secrete by sex, that promote differentiated education, in the measure that we believe that they do not project an educational model based on equality, non-discrimination, as we would like and as our order marks. We have repeatedly insisted that the PSC is against any type of school segregation. And this is one, as is segregation by language, by social, national origin... I, therefore, cannot defend that this model is sustained with public foundations. I want to make it clear that we absolutely understand it as an attack on these schools. Because we do not share this educational model, our group's intention is not that these choices cease to exist, nor that the families that choose this type of option, these centers, cannot continue to choose them. But I do stop being publicly funded. Some may be asking – in fact, to Catalonia Yes, it may seem that it is especially concerned – as is the Socialist Group, which was in the genei of the LEC – and in fact we defend it with pride, as a rather broad, stable _marc, which would allow, of course, also some educational policies quite different from those that are driven by the government in the last few years–, now they intend to modify something that in their day it has approved. First of all, to say that there is no such thing as a totality in the LEC, but a proposal for reform of this, for its adaptation, for an important modification that we share, that seems to us to be able to further help preserve the LEC's experience, because it corrects some deficiency, in our understanding, and strengthens the foundations of equality, equity and social justice. So, without going into what the LEC negotiation was like, they already know that in all the negotiation that leads to an agreement, so, it is customary for us to have divestitures on behalf of everyone, it is not hard for us to recognize errors, to propose an approach and, in fact, we do not do it now, Mrs Albiach, that we did it years ago, when we presented the proposed law of reform of the LEC mentioned, which was put to rest by Convergence and the People's Party, the same ones that today, with Esquerra, continue to oppose removing the obstacles that still exist to guarantee the egalitarian model that we want for a public school. And we have to say they're no longer worth cheating. In a context of restriction and presuppositionary limitations such as we are, where the education system has removed so many pressures in the form of teacher's right-hand cuts, reduction of lectural hours, increase of ration, elimination of lines, closing of classrooms, lack of investment in equipment, reduction of resources and aid, in general, that have gone to the detriment of equal opportunities or educational equity that we perceive, it is not conceivable that even a few schools, with segregatory models, still have a public finance that is not less likely – in fact, between 25 and 30 million euros; that, certainly, it has not decreased with educational cuts– while, for example, there are no schools at all. And it is to say that, to mark the difference, during the years of entesa government, a public school is made every fifteen days; therefore, great difference in context and, also, in politics. To the argument that developed, therefore, is added – despite the LOMCE, that some now defend with vehemence – the precedent fixed for these two Sentences of the Supreme, of the year 2012, respects the gender segregation of the students, which endorsed the suppression of two educational concerts to two schools in which it is divided teachingly differentiated by sex, which gave the reason to the Junta d'Andalusia and the Government of Cantabria. This also makes it more meaningful to still adapt the LEC to these theses. I know that Mrs Simó, therefore, is particularly concerned with the compliment of LOMCE. [[remorse of the voice]] , so that we understand that we are taking advantage of the locks that exist, we are changing what we rely on, and the modification of the LEC depends on this chamber; as the modification of the LOMCE we hope that it will come down and depend – we hope – on a progressive and reformist majority that we would soon want to govern Spain. For all intents and purposes – I finish – the Socialist Group will vote against the totality papers presented by Juntes for the Yes and the PP, and in favour of dealing with this law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.133.0	Next, has the word the Lady Pilar Castilejo of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.134.0	Yes; good morning to all and to all. Our vote will be in favour of bringing forward this proposal of law and, therefore, against the two items in totality. Why? So, from one band, because we understand that, in general, the educational concert is an anomaly. Perhaps at his beginning he had some sense, but the initial objective is clearly that it has been totally distorted. With honorable exceptions, at this time, with public money we subsidize basically private centres, which function as such, which have the same rights as public centres, but which do not have the same obligations. For the majority of Europe only 4.5_per_cent of the alumnat is in concerted centres, before 40_per_cent of the alumnat we have in concerted centres in Catalonia. And this percentage is increasing as policies of privatization or private management of public services have been consolidated. The concert isn't just an anomaly, but it's also segregating. These concerted centres collect fees to the parents and seas, so that with these fees they select the students by income level, secrete by income level. This does not favor the fairness of the education system, but causes a growing educational inequality depending on the cultural and social origin of the student. It causes, in short, a social fracture between education. It's three different centers depending on the family's income. The concert is also a covert privatisation. Lines of public centres are being closed as concerts with private centres expand, to cities where public lines are being closed. The past course has closed thirty-six groups to public centers; in this course, the letter to the street for the closing of lines to the public is assandering: twenty-one to the Baix Llobregat, new to the Maresme, also to the city of Lleida, to the Vallès... If the concert is an anomaly, if the concert is segregating, if it is a hidden privatization, the concert with the centers that secrete by sex is an aberration. We need to promote an education that enhances diversity. Separation between children does not favor an equal relationship, necessary because we then have a non-male society. We're betting on a single network, because it's socially just, because it's pedagogically positive. The heterogeneity of the public system is a good in itself, promotes socialization and respect, expands knowledge beyond the concrete family sphere. The public system embraces all cultures, religions, social classes, ideologies and genders, and this enriches the process of learning socially and pedagogically. Statistics show that the most heterogeneous educational systems achieve better academic results. As a result of everything that we explain, to improve our education system, we need to reduce to eliminate the concerted centres, and expand the public ownership and management centres. The economic viability of this measure is guaranteed by increasing the investment to 6_per_cent, as in the European medium, and, also, by eliminating the resources that are allocated to the concert of the elite centers. The concert– and we've already explained it, I've already explained it before the motius exhibition– of the seven Opus Dei centers that secrete by sex, cost us around 30_million euros a year. In the last six school courses marked for public education, almost 180_million euros have been rejected. These elite centres can continue to be private but without subsidies, as happens to all secular and democratic countries. The law – it is true – contemplates the possibility of the concert, but not the obligation. It must be made clear to us that it is only a matter of political will. We cannot hide ourselves with incorrect explanatory memoirs, we cannot hide ourselves with LOMCE, to which, from here, we should disobey, in order to present documents to the totality. Governance is a priority. And they can't prioritize depending on the government's filies, but on the country's needs. Now, we find ourselves again – because this debate has already been held in this Parliament – we will find ourselves again to make a decision about the educational concert with the schools that secrete by sex. We wait for the Yes to understand the exceptionality of the moment. They can't talk about a new country, a new republic; they can't talk about processes they constitute and, at the same time, refuse to discuss a topic for much that bothers us. To build the new republic we must be able to talk about everything; we cannot deny no debate. And we are waiting for the representatives of Juntes for the Yes, of all, of all sixty-two, we are calling all Juntes for the Yes..., who must understand that at these times we need to be able to talk about everything and we need to be able to discuss everything because this is what we are doing right now – we are calling the representatives of Juntes for the Yes because we also understand the exceptionality of this period in which we are and that, at the very least, we are allowing the necessary debate. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.135.0	After the debate, we will proceed to the joint vote of the papers presented to the totality... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I just made the sentence and then I give him the word. Presentations Presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. Mrs Simó, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.136.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.137.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.138.0	Two questions. Mrs Niubó, you don't have to be so important to you about LOMCE because they haven't included it in your investiture program at the Congress of Deputies. And the second question: since you ask me directly, Mrs. Albiach, I continue to think the same as in 2014, that the one who gave that press release, I continue to think the same as in 2001 or 2004, when the government disconcerted educational centers and then turned out to be lost to the courts, these disconcerts. That is why the motion for a resolution is signed. Are we discussing the subject? So much, but we discuss it well. And I talked about the LEC, because talking about the LEC is talking about values, children, education. I've talked about not changing the LEC in this legislature, so we won't support changing it by passing on this proposal from law to law. We don't want to open a LEC melo because other vaginas take off in a good cut, but not to defend the LEC. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.139.0	Mrs. Albiach, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.140.0	Mrs Simó, you have used the same arguments that you presented in 2014 to vote against the threat to the totality that you presented Convergence and the People's Party, to today vote for it. The same press release we were talking about before: « Left, PSC, U.S. Initiative and the CUP have supported a proposed law amending the LEC. Before it was possible to open the LEC honey, but not now. And, in addition, last paragraph: "We vote against the items in totality, so we can debate and lay the groundwork for a new organic law. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.141.0	We call it a vote, huh? [[Pause.]] So, let's now proceed to vote on the two issues of totality: the one presented by Junts for the Yes and the one presented by the People's Party. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 72 votes to 36, with 24 abstentions. As far as totality has been approved, this initiative is rejected. Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. [[Greetings.]] [[Procedure for choosing sis vocals from the Advisory Council of the Institute of Agricultural Research and Technology]] [[284-00004/11]] The fifth point of the order of the day is: procedure to choose sis vocals from the Advisor Council of the Institute of Research and Technology Agri-Food. Then, then, we proceed to the designation. Madam Ramona Barrufet, the fourth secretary, who read out the names of the candidates who have been presented together for all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.142.0	The candidates proposed are: Eva Carreras Salvadó, Tomàs Castells Fresquet, Montserrat Escoutia i Acedo, Joan Gené i Abesa, Albert Rubiol i Vilalta, Vicente Sanchís Almenar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.143.0	As the number of candidates submitted is equal to the number of candidates to be provided, in accordance with Rule 99.3 of the Rules, we may take this vote by consent. Mr. Saladié, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.144.0	Yes, to make an acclamation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.145.0	Forward, thirty-seconds, one minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.146.0	Well, that we agree with these nominations, I mean that there is no problem with the subject of doing so by consent, but we would like to make it clear that in six years, since the Law of the IRTA, of the year 2009, this councillor has not yet been summoned, and that, therefore, for many appointments that we have here, that can be very well, if this councillor is not called, these appointments do not serve for anything else. And that, in any case, we do know, therefore, that the present department, from the present consulting office, is working to, effectively, convene once and for all this councillor, which will be at the side of us so that this is the case. And above all, therefore, to make an IRT that every time is also more public, that works for a food sovereignty, and that for us must be, obviously, without transgenic, ecological and proximity. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.147.0	Mr. Bernat Sole, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.148.0	To make a... - Yes? – to make an acclamation. Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.149.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.150.0	... share part of the CUP's proposal in this sense. It is true, for a band, therefore, that it has not been called, but it is not certain that this council advisor does not have a utility. In any case, I am sure that most groups will agree that the appointment of this councillor will serve to boost an organization that has to have a role to play in the agri-food policies of our territory. And, in the face of the challenges of climate change and territorial rebalancing in the next few years, I think that this step that we are taking today is totally important. Since Parliament, we have been pushing this councillor; I am convinced that the Government also agrees, and we hope, therefore, that in the next few years the name of this councillor will be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.151.0	Therefore, if there is no objection, the candidates previously mentioned as members of the Advisory Council of the Institute of Agricultural Research and Technology are designated. [[Procedure for electing six members of the Democratic Memorial Board of Governors]] [[284-00005/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is the procedure for electing six members of the Democratic Memorial Board of Governors. Let's move on to the assignment. I pray to the first secretary, Mrs Anna Simó, who gives reading of the names of the candidates proposed for all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.152.0	« Proposal for candidates submitted for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Parliamentary Group Catalunya Yes it is Pot, Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia and Parliamentary Group of the CUP. Jordi Canal Morell, Jordi Font i Cardona, Emiliano Jiménez León, Andreu Mayayo i Artal, Enric Pujol Casademont, Josep Maria Royo Aspa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.153.0	In accordance with Rule 99.3 of the Rules, proposals that this designation may be made by consent, if there is no objection. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, therefore, to the nomination of the candidates proposed as members of the Democratic Memorial Board of Governors. And we raise the session, it gets up..., they suspect – forgive –, they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspended at three quarters of a half and two minutes and resumed at three in the afternoon. She chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary-General in office and the Frenchc Pau and Vall.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.154.0	It's part of the session. [[Asking the Government about the exceptional historical moment]] [[300-00019/11]] The item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on the exceptional historical moment presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. There's a word from Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.155.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members and Members, there are things that better to make clear to them from good principles, we think, because they can not generate confusion or possible misinterpretations of what, as a parliamentary group of CUP - Crida Constituent we think is our role in this Parliament and, concretely, in this legislature. These are things that we have already broken down and we have explained or tried to manifest in each of the plenary sessions that we have been doing, both in the investiture plenary and in which the government presented its organizational chart. For the CUP - Constituent Creed is not a normal legislature, neither do we pretend nor do we want it to be that way. We aspire to make this exceptional legislature, and exceptionality we pretend, we want it, because of its character of being a legislature of ruptures, of changes, of transformations, of reptes; a legislature that, moreover, recovers clearly from what should always have been the institutions: a clear reflection of the popular will, of the will of the people of the street. This is, for us, the reading we make of September 27th and which is the parliamentary term that goes on. And this exceptional character that we give him, that we want him in the legislature that we have begun, once more, we express him from this Faristol by reason that they do not depend solely on our own wishes, but also on others. And we know that time, the days since President Puigdemont's investiture in the presidency of the Generality are few, very few. In fact, with today's intervention we certainly do not complete that formality of the first hundred days of government or of leaving the first hundred days of government. But we think that all..., and we think that it's a general idea of all that we make up this Ple, that we know of the vertigo with which things are precipitated in the current Catalan political framework and the need that we need to give the political responses in the right time. The Spanish state, expert and great connoisseur, not exactly the process, but how to proceed with the Aranzadi brigade or without, acts fort and acts. The day to day of these people is the law bites, the CIEs, the refugees, the requirements of our assemblies and their positions before the law, before the country, with support for this Parliament, and all this does not admit, for us, delay. And give us, too, or give us the time we need to know how to give our political response. The commitments made on 27 September gave us a mandate and laid the foundations for it on the pillars of state disconnection, the beginning of a process being essential and never sufficient social rescue measures. And this mandate, this commitment we cannot do, we believe, from the mark that meant the 78th rule. Now that it is precisely thirty years of the reference about the stay or exit of the Spanish State of NATO, a vote that gave a result in the state mark in favor of the stay, with a 52,5_per_cent, but that in Catalonia it was rejected for a 51_per_cent and this rebuy was also imposed on the Canaries, Navarre and the Basque Country. That defeat finally broke the Spanish transition from the Franco dictatorship to democracy and the social movements of those who were there were frustrated with their hopes of transformation and of breaking with the old regime and hoping that the new, emerging from the transition of 78, would take on a completely different dimensions from what it was. As someone has written, NATO integration can therefore be seen as the definite burial of the hopes of the social forces that had struggled to build a more participatory model of democracy, which allows you to intervene directly on issues of transcendence. But that NATO exit, which we lost, also gave its fruits: it had succeeded in putting in the center of the debate of the State the values of the culture of the pau, the objection of conscience, non-violence, civil disobedience, anti-militarism, solidarity and international cooperation. The proof of this is that a few years later, a lot of those people who were in the mobilizations of the referendum campaign created entities that helped to develop, solidarity, human rights and pau centers or were linked to the anti-war movements that were more likely to be mobilitarian, and grossly, against the wars of the Gulf, of the ancient Yugoslavia, of Palestine, of Afghanistan, of Iraq, of Libya and Syria – unfortunately, many. Movements and organizations that have kept alive until today the demand for the construction of the pau in a world more solidarity and without wars; movements that today, we believe, participate or pretend to participate and want to participate actively in the construction march of the new Catalan Republic and in the recognition of this on the values defended: of pau, disobedience, antimilitarism, solidarity and international cooperation. Movements that participate in ways of making and hearing politics, very different. A few days ago, Marina Garcés, speaking of a new policy, said: "Speaking of a new policy is, therefore, a trap category that converts the struggles and setbacks of today's social transformation into an expired product. What today is a new policy is still a conglomerate of many people and structures that come from traditional parties with cares, placards and acronyms that until recently did not participate in the party system. More than an ideological and political renewal, for many the new policy means, above all, an ethical regeneration of a structurally corrupt system, through the most open, transparent and personally honest procedures. At this level, in the short term, to hear the new policy, it awakens a consensus from which we, without any doubt, form a part. Now, the problem begins when we debate the real capacity of the new political formations to transform the exercise of real politics. And it's to place us, precisely, in the middle of this dilemma, where we think that if the mark of the 78th Regime is not valid for us to complete with the 27th of September mandate and the deployment of the 9-N declaration, neither is the autonomous mark and the acceptance of the debt. Reflections from the company, Eulàlia Reguant, pointed out that shortly, when we talk about assumptions and focus again on what the Parliamentary Group of the CUP and the Cree are doing or not doing in general, we will have to make it clear that in the political and economic framework in which we move, capitalism is very difficult, not to say impossible, to generate the social, political and economic transformation for which we work and mobilize; but also to make it clear, she said, that resignation is not our political option and that we do not accept or accept imposed marks. To advance work to achieve unequivocal gestures that allow us to face social emergence and to be able to find that austerity policies and privatizations are elements of the past, gestures that raise disobedience respect those laws originating in the Spanish State, widely contested, both in the catal as in the field of the State, and gestures that in the republican construction visualize and demonstrate a process of bass, where all those collections that have been working for years to make effective alternatives and sovereigns, there are stubborn ones. This, for us, is the function in these own seven-months and in case it is intended to point out governments or facilitate an image of normality, since that is what we are going to do, for ourselves, it is normal. This legislature is exceptional, and like Parliament and the government, we think, must act. No one can claim that the disabled in the exception period is the disabled of all life, those where all the more important is to appear unit of action or where the divergences and differences remain outside the hemicicle. This legislature has a mandate, and that is what we have undertaken to respect: the popular mandate of 27 September, no more or less, which is no less. Exceptionality does not include chanting, does not include autonomous policies and does not include policies offered by the popular classes of this country. The exceptional understanding of the necessary stability before the arrival of the Spanish State, of the practical powers of the State that systematically deny us the fact of recognizing our rights. And this exceptionality of the legislature, this limited time, but urgent in the answer, in which we would like to see our government situated. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.156.0	Responses the Councillor of the Presidency, Mrs. Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.157.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, Councillors, Members, Members, Member of Parliament..., first of all, I would like to thank him for the whole of the inquiry, and also for his content, which leads us to reflection, but I am sure that to position us in the same way that you began your parliament, leaving things very clear and also making clear who is the role of cadascú. In this case, I would like to do so on behalf of the Government; a government which I would also describe as exceptional, as a sum of sensitivities and various ideologies, but with a mandate, with a very clear and clear commitment to Catalonia's citizenship, but also, very clearly, to this Parliament. And it's true that we come from exceptional choices and that's why this stage and this historical moment that we're living also has this exceptional character. I mean, it's not more of a choice, and the result of that 27th of September is this Parliament, a parliament for the first time with an absolute independenceist majority, and that's a very important point of inflection in the coordinates that existed for years. This exceptionality, of course, is also the one that has determined this arithmetic sum that gives us this absolute majority, in this Parliament, made up of the deputies and deputies of Juntes per el Si and also those of the CUP - Crida Constituent, which, therefore, do not..., do not preserve in any case differences or divergences in many aspects, I believe that absolutely legitimate and not just legitimate, which is an obvious, but also very healthy. And that we're prepared. That is why our firm, unequivocal, unalterable will is that we can arrange, in the period that we have marked ourselves – this period of division, which is now seven – you have not spent a hundred days since the investiture of the President of Catalonia, that is so; but in any case, with the will to keep the country prepared in this period of time, which is relatively short, so that you can have a state and a state that is absolutely independent. This means defining a new country model, a country model that we need to talk about and address economic, fiscal, environmental and social issues. And with this willingness to say things for his name and which cannot be misinterpreted, I ratify, so, again, this government's objective, which is clear, that it is indefusible, that it is clear, that it is not other than to implement and develop the government's program, which was approved at the investiture session of the president of Catalonia on the past 10th generation, which involves following thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread by thread, the democratic mandate expressed in the September 27th elections. I think that in this sense they bring together many things, some of you have raised them in your intervention. I hope to have time in this first part to answer it and, in any case, if not, in the second. You know perfectly well that the two parliamentary groups that make up this absolute independenceist majority together, for example, at the time of gathering together the creation of joint ponies, inheritance laws, social protection laws, legal rules, because we understand that they are perfectly legitimate and that they also respond to this mandate obtained from the elections of 27 September. For what it does to discrepancies or to those aspects in which we can, therefore, surely have some difference, I will not spoil them; but in any case, I will refer to it, if I may, later on, won't I? You have spoken that this exceptionality implies rupture, involves changes, involves transformations and involves reptes. I think we can be there, too, okay and that institutions – and, in this case, the main one, the Government of Catalonia, but also the Parliament of Catalonia – must be clearly reflective of the change that has occurred in society and of this majority that it is politics because it has previously been social, what we have at these times in Catalonia. And yes, this expression that you have made use of, in vertigen, I will not deny that we have felt it at some point, but it is a vertigen of the full conviction and full responsibility that we must be able to bring this country to a good place and that we must prepare it from its legal, legal, institutional architecture, so as to become an independent state within the European Union. And you have made reference to all those aspects in which the Government of the State acts or continues to act. There is no policy of this Government, I assure you, that it has as its object neither to offend nor to detail absolutely anyone, it is more quickly this Government, as the joint venture of the Catalan society, which has historically been offended and retaliated in its rights and in its powers, which... these expressions, let us say, of the power of the State continue to occur day after day. You made reference to the Transition. He was talking about the 78th rule and this transition, I would say misnamed "transition, with the benevolence that it must have been badly sealed, was disappointing in many respects, but I want to believe that it was also well-intentioned in some others, right? And we don't always agree on speaking time or we don't always agree on concepts. Speaking of transition, you often choose other concepts. No problem, but I think the big difference, and here maybe we can agree, is that that transition wasn't exactly done to the people, nor was it done down to up. It was the time of the'tied and well bound, and this expression, and above all everything that was going on, carried everywhere, to all levels, and there was, as there is now, a force, a force that is unstoppable, that is free, that is that of the citizenry; in fact it is the one that has brought us here. We know very well and we must remember every day, that it asks us what is fully possible in any democratic state, that it is the adequacy of the legal marks, of the legal marks, of the political marks to the mature, serious and democratic will manifested at the polls by the people of Catalonia. With this I mean that this transition that we sometimes talk about, this transition, national transition to the independent state, to independent Catalonia, does have the virtue of being down to high, and on the part of a lot of people; and, as I said, this is the main force and the main engine to be able to transform things. It has been a solid, democratic, enormously plural majority, as is this Parliament, let me add, as is this Government, which tells us what is this way forward. And with this I do not pass on any importance or value to all the people and all the movements that you have now made reference to, and worked hard, and from the covertness in that other transition, in that first transition, movements that, in effect, were brought back and without which we would not explain much of the social and democratic progress that we have been able to have in our country and that we have also been able to have, therefore, in the vicinity of Spain. You were talking about this new policy, a new policy that I think is absolutely questioning all of us, from forms, from ways of acting, from ethics, from transparency, in short, values that we also want for this new country and for this republic for which we are working all and, if not, at least, a very solid majority of this chamber. And real resignation is not an option. As the Chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes often says, "it is not part of our language. Resignation is not part of our language; we move strictly in the legal framework, absolutely democratic and supported by so many people, as is the September 27 mandate. And that is what, in the division of tasks and the division of responsibilities that we have marked ourselves, is making this government – is making this government – combining the necessary dedication, day by day to the people, to the needs of the people and of the citizenry, contemplating a social agenda that is powerful, a social agenda that is precisely for this citizenry. We understand that independence is the instrument, precisely, to be able to serve people and that on the social agenda the social, health, educational, housing priorities of the city council occupy the highest priority both for what it does at the hours, the agendas and the efforts of this government's joint. I am sure that in the second part of my intervention I will be able to continue to respond to your approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.158.0	There's a word from Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.159.0	Thank you, President. Well, from the outset, tell him that I do not doubt that the agendas, and the work, and the dedication that the Government can make of the..., the problem is whether or not we engage him in this work and whether this work is appropriate for the political facts that we have proposed to ourselves, and that, moreover, I also take advantage of it to say that it is a good thing that we recognize publicly – and someone may seem to be repeating it, but we must go on to make it public continuously – this compromise that we have with the country and, above all, with the mandate that came out of September 27, that is, it is a mandate that we must know how to make sense. And I also believe that this includes political groups or parliamentary groups that are not for this mandate, that is, the need to make everything that this Parliament approves credible. I think it's all the parliamentary groups' obligation, huh? It is not just those who have had or have a majority in parliament to pull forward, but everything that is approved in this Parliament should be credible. And in this sense, therefore, independently that we do not agree in the interpretations or where this transition has led us..., but at these moments what interests us, before the important challenge we have, is this: the credibility that can hold our commitments. And in this sense, we think we need to believe that this Parliament is going to know and that it can tackle laws and political actions that impact not only on this mandate but on people's day-to-day lives. The subject for us continues to be a question of not losing the credibility that we may have in what we propose and do, inside and outside, but above all in this Parliament. And it will be in this sense that we will present the motions for resolutions to the motion arising from this inquiry, and that they will make reference both to the 1/XI statement, I believe, of this Parliament as to its annexes or the deployment of its annexes; proposals that we want to reach agreement, that help to make what we are doing here credible, approve or propose from this Parliament, because the promises we have do not help in this sense – do not help. Remembering a little with the companies, so we have approved motions for February 2014, and I won't be making the list very long because I don't have time, but things approved for 114 votes in favor with almost all groups, such as the law, and at these times we still have doubts whether or not we accept its sanctioning regime. We have concerns such as that of health care for people living in Catalonia, approved for the vast majority also with a resolution of the Parliament of July 2015, and still at these times we do not know whether or not we are completing this mandate of the Parliament. We have fears like that of Gallardon Law, of avoting, also approved – and say those who have had a wide parliamentary gathering, eh? – you approve of the February 2014 and we still have doubts on this subject as to where we place the co-responsibility of the Government on this whole subject. And how these, therefore, the deployment of the 24/2015, etc. will. It is to say that there are certain premises that do not help credibility, and the best response for us to the sendings that can come and that come from the State is precisely to make the agreements reached in this Parliament credible and real are not subordinated. And this answer would be to write it down and give it to meet as soon as possible or, better yet, to place it urgently and in a nutshell on our country's political agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.160.0	There's the word Mrs. Neus Munté's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.161.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, I would like you to sincerely believe in the will of this government and its credibility when we speak in full force of the follow-up, in turn, of the full course we have marked. The compliment of everything that this Parliament approves or, ultimately, of everything that it brings forward this Government, is of the subject matter that follows, only and exclusively of our political will, and this political will is all there is, honourable Member, I assure you. You have asked examples of questions, all of which are important from a democratic and social point of view. He was talking about health care for people who live in Catalonia; today, even the Councillor of Salut, Councillor Comín announced measures to develop these principles that we believe and that we have been developing for a long time in Catalonia, not listening and not paying attention to the extreme limitations that we have always denounced and have always strongly criticized that yes, on the other hand, imposed the Government of the People's Party at the level of the State, as you know perfectly well. Total political will at the time of the deployment of the law on housing emergence, which approved this Parliament and in which there was, I believe, a lot of good work and agreement with an agreed time between the same promoters of the ILP, promoters of this initiative, the parliamentary groups and the Government, precisely in order to facilitate that people in a situation of losing their habitat or in a situation of vulnerability in general may join the different measures adopted by this Government. I will not repeat the debates that we have already made the other day, about a week ago in the monographic debate on the situation of the poor, in the sense of how this Government, as it cannot be otherwise, prioritizes this social agenda and this social priority. And that's clear in the assumptions and we invite them, once more, not you, all of you, at the side of the chamber, to take a lot of attention for what he does to his own debate, when it's produced, of assumptions. That is where, in reality, the political and social priorities of this government will be found. But I insist that in the matter of the national agenda, so intrinsically linked to the social, but for what it does to the commitments of the full sovereignist route and that they left all those declarations, also political, approved in this department, the will of this government, as well as of the parliamentary groups that support it, is that of completing them in turn, because we understand that this is the compromise that we have met with citizenship, because it supports a democratic mandate and there is nothing more powerful than a democratic mandate and there is nothing more legitimate than a democratic mandate and, therefore, where there is this democratic mandate, many other things are about it, and many other things do not win our paths, huh? Mr. Congressman. I want you to make it clear that there are precisely four political leaders in this country who are being investigated and accused of a crime of disobedience, and do not shake our paths in time to say that we will defend until the end the legality and legitimacy of what we are, of what we are and what we continue to do, from the Government of Catalonia and from a majority as solid as this Parliament has. Therefore, we would be fond of his proposal, his motion; obviously, we would discuss it, analyze it, but the most important of all is the content of everything that we are doing, of everything that we are planting. I insist that we do not deviate from this compromise that we have entered into with the citizenry. And that this government, because it's now in the mouth of who I'm talking about, has a lot of it with its day-to-day action. Also when we are working to improve the social situation of so many people in front of a state, in front of a government, in front of a constitutional court that is, precisely, willing to achieve all the opposite. But I assure you that for our part you will not stay and not get mixed up. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.162.0	The eighth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the National Council for Culture and the Arts, presented by the Socialist Party. [[Interview with the Government on the National Council for Culture and the Arts]] [[300-00020/11]] The word has Mr. Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.163.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. The president says I can start, so I'll start. I don't have a problem. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.164.0	They tell me that if there are members of the government, as the inquiry is to the government, it can begin, even though we have advised the Councillor of Culture to come.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.165.0	Here he is, here he is. [[Someone says, "Swiss Puntuality. Rialles.]] Empordanese. [[Pause.]] Well, in any case, I'd be preaching to the Madam President that you put the time to God, please. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. Good afternoon, President. Honourable councillors and councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, culture contributes to creating the image of communities and is a basic element of identity, diversity and social cohesion. I would also like, if I may, to demand culture and cultural policies, especially in times of crisis, economic crisis, social crisis, and also to demand culture as a source of critical experience and culture as an essential part of people's well-being. I am convinced, Mr Councillor, that you share with me this or these two initial statements, as I am also convinced that we agree that, around cultural policies, at least in the most global, in the most strategic, we can say that we are obliged to try to weave complicity, agreements and consensus in defense of public interest. And this, Mr. Vila, is our intention to formulate the inquiry around the National Council of Culture and Arts, which we would like you to interpret in a positive and constructive sense. We do not intend to argue with you; we could respect concrete policies, but this is not the case. We do not intend to polemize with you but to analyze the diagnosis, evaluate the evolution of the Conca of these later years, and share if possible the need to relaunch it, to reformulate it, because it is a useful tool to serve the culture and the country's conjunction. The need for the 2008 Law of the National Council of Culture and Arts is justified, among others, on the basis of the following premises. First, that culture is a key element in the policies of the welfare and must put in value the right of citizenship to culture, which must be of universal access. For this reason, the Conca must integrate culture, science, technology and humanities from a cross-cutting, inter-disciplinary and diverse perspective. Second, the conviction of a policy of promotion and expansion of culture and the arts on the margins of political conjunctures, and that society must participate in the decisions that affect it from the model that represent the councils of the arts of the Anglo-Saxon countries. Thirdly, the need to generate new forms of cultural policies and creation support. And fourth, to rethink the model of cultural management and support and encouragement to the artistic creation in force and to adapt it to the demands and challenges that were raised at those times in 2008. Thus, in the Conca, on the margins of the commonly established priorities, such as the promotion of excellence in creation, professional development or the promotion and dissemination of cultural products, the law also entrusted them with the need to face other challenges: new languages, new forms of mediation, new artistic forms, public development, especially young people, or the defence of cultural diversity. The Law of the Conca was approved with a broad political and social consensus, in which the group I represent was a very important and outstanding element. This law created an organization with clear functions of vigilance and prescription towards cultural policies. His creation meant an important, relevant tape of remarkable importance for a better articulation of Catalonia's cultural policy, and it has to be said that great expectations to advance in the autonomy of culture respect politics. These initial expectations, however, are going to be diluting, blurring and frustrating despite some positive advances and uncertainties, which, as I say, should be recognised, as the consolidation of an annual analysis; a critical memory of Catalan cultural reality; the creation of the Catalonia Culture Foundation to promote sponsorship and sponsorship, unfortunately, and I also want to say, that we do not have a law of tax incentives and tax breaks in the competition framework of our State; the organization of the National Cultural Awards, or the issuing of reports and the performance of audits or strategic evaluations in various fields. It is obvious that the Conca in this sense has done a function, but we believe that it is absolutely insufficient, and, more still, with the presuppositional, functional and competitive details collected in one of the known laws such as omnibus laws and also in the laws of fiscal measures, both that of the year 2014 and that of 2015, which have left the Conca in a situation..., in an organism, in a simple body of control and evaluation of cultural policies, distorting and reducing this organism, we believe, to the very least express. We are convinced..., and it is one of the things we want to lay down, the main, the phonenal: reformulate the Conca so that it can have the necessary skills and instruments to contribute to the consolidation of public policies for the culture and the better of the Catalan cultural reality. And, also, we believe that it must have sufficient autonomy to respond to the challenges, no longer being a consultative body to the government's service in order to become, to become an agency to the service of the country, differentiating, we believe, in this way, in a clear way the cultural policies, obviously inherent to the government, which is in the competence of the government and which we do not discuss in absolute, much contrary, differentiating this from politics in a broad, cross-cutting and global sense. We believe that it is necessary to place the Conca around the structural and prescriptive competitions, as I said earlier, and to focus the debate on the operational management of policies and programmes, giving it greater prescriptive capacity, as I said earlier, and greater links with the Parliament of Catalonia and with the combination of public administrations involved in culture. Counselor, we..., the Socialist Parliamentary Group believe, we believe in the Conca as a cross-cutting instrument for the defense, protection and projection of culture; as a strategic instrument to the service of the country's culture, if you will, of the culture in capitals. From our point of view, the work and functioning of the cultural councils, both of the municipal cultural councils, as in the case of the Conca, must be guided around four major axes: first, ensuring the autonomy of culture respects the political and presuppositional circumstances; two, the centrality of culture in the global context of politics; third, the structural development of cultural policies in legal and social terms – in terms of sponsorship, good practices, transparency, legislation, etcetera –, and fourth, the objective in those remote from public management with a high prescriptive content – I am referring to the emeritus, the aid to creation, the creators, etcetera. That is why, Counselor, we would like to ask you, and we would like to know your opinion of respect, some of the main elements that I summarize at these times, and which will obviously be the object of the motion resulting from this inquiry. First of all, the adscription of the Conca to the Parliament of Catalonia to give it greater autonomy; secondly, the election of its members by this Parliament and by qualified majority, therefore seeking agreement, seeking consensus, and, thirdly, its functions and competences, which we believe will be expanded, and which will allow us..., I do not have time to name them all, but it will allow me to do so, which you do especially from one which we believe is very important, which is to recover the theme of creation aid by the Conca. In your appearance, Mr. Counsellor, to the Committee on Culture we want to raise the need for a great deal of agreement, we want to raise the need for a cultural pact for culture, to which you also referred. So, well, we believe that the Conca, in this hypothetical, desirable national pact for culture, has to play an important role, has to play a phonative role, has to play a strategic role and a leadership role. This is another example that we want to show respect for the need to reformulate the Conca. I'm done. Counselor, we are ahead of the opportunity to build a first agreement, a first major agreement in cultural matters, with you, with your Government, with the parliamentary group that supports you, and also with the rest of the parliamentary groups. We will pay attention to your response and your apprehension. And it is moving forward, from the outset, that, for what the Socialist Parliamentary Group does to us, for us, it will not be left to extend our hand to this possible agreement on a fundamental issue such as the field of culture, such as the National Council of Culture and Arts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.166.0	Reply the Councillor of Culture, Mr Santi Vila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.167.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honourable Councillors and Councillors; illustrious Members and Deputies; Secretaries General of the Department of Culture; President of the Conca, Mr Carles Duarte; Lords and Lords, very late. The honourable Member, Mr Bruguera, has said that I believe that his inquiry is absolutely timely; I think that we are at a good time to put this question on the table. And even more, you walk in and I celebrate the way you approach it, huh? He could approach it from many other ways, from many other perspectives, with another attitude, with another setting of foundations, and, in change, he already did it in the committee in his parliamentary office and today he does it again here, in the plenary, so, with a whole and with a philosophy of foundations that I can only celebrate and share. Therefore, the complicity of funds is there. This has to do with the best tradition of the Socialist Party, which incarnates some like you who already paint white hair, and how good paper they have played in relation to culture, right? Those who don't comb white hairs are going to believe it yet; you'll see. [[Widow's remorse.]] You'll see. On the pateixi, huh? I don't question it, but I do believe that, in the good tradition of the Socialist Party, sure, huh? , which in culture has made great contributions, and very good, and the Conca, without any doubt, is one. Allow me to absolutely endorse your claim to the role of culture as a pot more than the welfare society. No doubt about it. I absolutely subscribe to it; I celebrate it, as I also celebrate the offer that it has already made in commission and that makes us here today of maximum complicity. Our contribution, from the Administration, from the Government, also from the Parliament, should be to clear precisely the cultural policies of the partisan battle. Here we find, in fact, the primal justification of the Conca: how can we have an instrument that frees us from the partisan debate, from the conjuncture debate and that, therefore, can continuously raise our gaze and contribute with its contributions to, precisely, preserve, eh? , the role of culture in our society. Absolutely okay. I believe, in this sense, and he came out in his parliamentary office, that the initiative to resume a national pact for culture during this legislature is not only necessary, but also can again be an important, transcendent task, which we formulate around the Conca, with the complicity of all of you, with the complicity of the Government, but why not? , led by the Conca. Of all the ways, fixed that, passing on the founding object of this council, it seems to me that there are some explicit and implicit values that are absolutely important to take into account. In the first place, as we can continue to guarantee its absolute independence, an independence that must be objective and subjective, is to say that it must be truly objective and perceived for the conjunction of citizenship as such. Insofar as the city does not perceive it as such, even though it was, we cannot, therefore, have the same solvency and credibility of this independence; independence that must be linked to the solvency of its members; independence, solvency and, naturally, and this is the mission of Parliament, also plurality, because, by definition, culture is plural. So, we can make it, huh? , that the Conca is understood by the conjunction of the citizenry, by the conjunction of people and entities that are devoted to the world of culture, as a truly independent organ, as a truly solvent organ, with conditions of making relevant contributions, and as an organ that really reaches and is sensitive to the plurality of this country, we are doing well. Indeed, you referred, in 2008, by law, to the Conca and 2011 is reform. I would say that the reform of '11 can basically be summed up in a segregation of functions; it is confirmed and reaffirmed this function more of control, more of prescription in relation to cultural policies and, in change, releases the Conca from this function, therefore, surely more of application, more of impulses than determined policies, in the concrete case of creation aids. Well, let's talk about it, because I think that from here to the summer, from here to July, that we actually have a few months ahead of us – and I put the date of the summer because in the summer, as you know, some members of the Conca stop, they complete their mandate – so, from here to the summer we can self-impose this reflection work. I share his philosophy of foundations and his appreciation, his appreciation of the Conca, I celebrate it. I think this is a very valuable instrument, I think we can strengthen it and take it. We can review, from the 11th year reform, what came out of us well and not. I absolutely agree with you that there are things that, perhaps, in the reform, therefore, have not been taken into account and that today we are already after, because of the reality of the facts, that need to be improved – then, if necessary, I will refer to it on the next return. But I think that, precisely, we should approach the delicacy with which you intervened. And, in this sense, I would like all parliamentary groups to also be able to approach this update or confirmation of the Conca's mission of delicacy to be fully aware that we cannot put at risk their independence, their solvency, nor – and this is a compromise of the Government, which is ultimately proposing members to renew, at these times – plurality. If we respect these principles, these values, I think the Conca will continue to be useful to us. Just 'you're that in this sense you're talking to me about relaunching it, talking to me and everything – it seemed to me to feel it – to refound it. And in any case, these values or these principles or objectives, with which we can agree, that absolutely connect this idea of being attentive to everything that the whole sector of culture has of innovation, the whole field of culture, to its diversity, as we face new policies of participation, all this, that is, it is also true that it encounters a series of obstacles that we have already encountered over the table and that we have and will continue to manage. And it has to do with the actualization of the object, also with the renewal of the members of the council, and, very important, with the fact of solving some objective problems that have come out, and that they have to see, for example, with rules of incompatibility. It's settled that, before this agenda of concerns that all of you know, and that we've grown up with, so we'll have to be critical, self-critical, and review what we've decided with certainty and what we've done wrong, or what, with the experience of the facts, we can do better. And in this sense, we all have to make contributions. I have already advanced that in my approach I am absolutely in favour of preserving the independence of the Conca in the measure that deals, only, with prescribing and evaluating the policies of the Government. And that, therefore, we release it absolutely from any direct involvement with the policies themselves. Because it cannot be art and part, it cannot be who prepares a departure of help and who saves the solution. Because you inevitably break this sharp, precise separation between who thinks philosophy, the orientation of what you're going to do and who ultimately gets involved in its management, its realization, etcetera. From all angles, it is questionable, and we will be pleased to approach it - without too much urgency, it is, quite simply, with the conviction that it is important that we preserve its independence. He says: "Home, it is that we have arrived, from the Socialist Party, to the conclusion that this independence we will ensure if we join Parliament the Conca. Or not. That is to say, fixed 'that this can be a solution, as it may be that we choose its members from the Parliament, directly or at the proposal of the Government, with some series of majorities or qualified filters; but in any case, there is also another question, which has to do with the supply system. All of you are elected for the respective political formations, huh? When from the various schools they assess who are the problems of today's representative democracy, it is fixed that as important as you are, you have to see how you have reached here and how you have chosen them. So, say, man, whether it's the government or the parliament, do I solve this question? I don't know. Who chose you as candidates? Ciutadania? You know that – you know that. And this is on the table at these times and any well-informed city, when it evaluates the quality of democracy and representative democracy, it says: "We have a problem, because those who are eligible do not know well who elected them because they are eligible. And that's a tough problem, huh? , of democratic radicalism. Therefore, this valuable, Anglo-Saxon-inspired institution also has a good opportunity to be exemplary. But, count, because we could simply find a solution in the court, to say: "No, no..., let's move from government to parliament. I like to point out to him already, from the start, to start this debate, that I think we'll be short, because the problem is a little more complex. As for the recovery of the creation aid, which you have said, or the pact of culture, on the second occasion of the intervention, I will mention a little more extensively, but already advance that we have gone through here and that we can find perfectly. Thank you very much, Madam President. Sir, I expect your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.168.0	The word has Mr. Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.169.0	Thank you, President. Globally, Mr. Counselor... well, maybe I do hope that we have, as you said, that we can find each other, right? , that we can agree and that these global reflections that we share more or less can translate into better structure. We don't talk about refounding, but reformulation, which is not quite the same, the council. You spoke of the independence of the Conca, the objective and subjective independence. We agree. And that is why, precisely, we have done the reflection that probably a dependency or a major dependence or a major adscription of the Conca to this Parliament, precisely, would help two things. First of all, to ensure better their independence respect the cultural policies that they can bring forward the Government, of course, and that we may agree with it or disagree with it, but also because..., to make it clear that the Conca, as a strategic instrument to the service of culture, in capitals that I have said, is to the service of the country and not so much to the service of the Government, eh? And, therefore, not as an agency dependent on or adviser to the same Government, but depending on this Parliament, and therefore on the service of cultural policy or culture in general. The law of 2011 reduced the Conca, but not only the law of 2011, but also the laws of fiscal measures of 2014 and 2015. Respect for the Conca, also another question, another topic, if you want, more general: Mr. Counsellor, culture, unfortunately, in this country, these last years, has not been a priority. If you'll let me tell you this all, huh? , but with a certain..., a statement a little harsh: it was not a priority. It wasn't a presuppositional priority, for example. And not only from the point of view of quantity, in the detail of your premise, but also – and you know it perfectly – qualitatively. It lowered the depth of the Department of Culture in the conjunction of the Generality's presupposition, from 2010-2011 until today it has been reduced. And, therefore, the one that had become an important tape, that was to get the Department of Culture to arrive and exceed the 1_per_cent of the generality's global premise, at these moments you know very well that it is past half, right. If we take into account that the year 2010 language policy was in the Presidency and that it is now in Culture, and, therefore, we cannot cheat on the solitary, in this sense, eh? Therefore, we are just over 0.5_per_cent. Therefore, we need to improve – we need to improve –, we will also find ourselves, at the time of talking about assumptions, therefore, to improve the role and the weight of cultural policies in the context of the global presumption of the Generality. And we also believe, Mr. Counsellor, that in the case of Conca we must make an important effort to make it the instrument we believe – which we believe – that we must have. And since football is football and a plate is a dish, beyond the good words, I'd like to ask you if you can make us a little more. I mean, you talked about the summer. Perfect. We will present a motion, a motion that will obviously be our position, the position of the PSC, which I would say has reflected that enough respect for this question, respects the Conca in its conjunction, and that, in any case, also, as this inquiry, will be an open motion – open – to the contribution of the rest of the parliamentary groups, with the hope that we can find a wording that satisfies us all and, above all, that you committed us all to football is football, and therefore concrete, and that is what I would ask you, Mr Councillor, in this second intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.170.0	The Councillor of Culture responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.171.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope that the honourable Member will sit down, so we can follow with attention what we are explaining. [[Pause.]] Okay. Thank you very much. I don't know if I can be more concrete than in the first intervention. From the start, subscribe to the value you make of the interest of an instrument of these characteristics. The need for all our pleas to be a truly plural organ. Not only plural, but, more than a month, from the point of view of the citizen's perception it is seen as solvent and as truly independent. If this is to be done through the Parliament or from the Government, I would say: do not rush. He says: "Oh, it is that we now want to fix our position through a young man. Well, you know what's most appropriate, most convenient from the point of view of the interest of your parliamentary group. I..., I just like his qualification as a young lady that we want to keep open; open, because I'm already telling him to look up a little bit and think that until the summer we can put together, so, what contributions can be the most valuable. And, in this sense, like the Department of Culture, what can we do? So, bring them, to all parliamentary groups, various experiences, various models. I especially like someone. I've been able to study with a certain detention, for example, what is the realization of a board of these characteristics in Holland, huh? That you are a model that you know well because already in the report Bricall had gone out, etcetera, and went up to date. However, I have to say that in this model the supply system is a well-solved and very distinctly resolved issue that in our country, where we resolve it in the Mediterranean, to say the least. Fixing that, sometimes, this Parliament, huh? – and I've been a Member for many years, so I'm self-criticizing – I understand pluralism, plurality, as in other words quota, and that's the most antiplural of all. That's just that there's a party that puts a person of their trust here. Fortunately, this is not the case with the Conca, but many times we have had the perception that after the word 'pluritty' we do not respect the diversity of a sector or the plurality of ideologies of a sector, but we do respect the respective share of each political formation. So, count, we're still on guard from this perspective, because I think we'd be wrong if we did. I have already advanced it, and with all my realization, some of the problems that there are: the retribution at this time of the members of the Conca. Do we really want them independent? But if we want them independent, only the way to solve it is with a..., salariing them? Maybe we can put it in crisis, but I wouldn't rush it to 15 days of this decision, because it's very serious. Because perhaps what makes these people valuable is that they can maintain their academic career and, from the rostrum and the independence of criteria that give, therefore, the academic ivory tower, they can make the contributions that they have to provide guidance, assessment and advice to the Government. Or a professional career that can already be mature and that at these times also gives absolute freedom. Ah! Now we have to hire them, and as we have to hire them, I mean, those people who are right at the top of the point of view of the mature, they can't be part of the Conca. « – Oh, no? So, who do we have to take it from? – Ah, to people who are in action. – Dear, we will certainly resolve his independence and his objectivity. We've got a problem. So, let's put it on the table and see how we face it. We have some ideas. We would not like to settle it at the time of the motion – I say this sincerely, Mr Bruguera, with all due respect for the parliamentary initiative that you want to undertake – because we will all have to act in haste, and the parliamentary groups will have to make all their contribution, and I am not convinced that, with the work that you all have, they can devote enough time to grasp the full maturity of knowledge that such an important issue requires, because it does not matter that we say that it is a very important issue, that we want to be on the sidelines of the party struggle, on the sidelines of the current situation, and that, in turn, we consider that we need to fix the position of this Parliament with one motion. It does not bind me to this; it does not bind me as the government. If you have to, you'll do it, huh? The government has the support that it has and the majority and minority that they have in Parliament, but I invite them to take this precaution, because the Conca is a truly transcendent instrument, and I believe, and listening to it I still see it more confirmed, that we can hear each other, because what you in the hope of the Conca and what the government expects very much assembles, and therefore it is in their concreteness where we can discuss it. And I think that it can help us to analyze, to compare other realities, how precisely these people have been contracted, to provide these people, how they have guaranteed their independence, or how, in reality, these types of councils are actually plural; plurals and a very important aspect: that they are not only representatives of a particular sector. Because, even more so than this party representation or inscription, there is another problem, and it is that it is often possible to run the risk, in the danger that representatives represent a very determined sector. I don't think that's what we need. We need people with an idea of holistic culture, totally, fully aware that culture is ultimately an instrument to keep citizens and citizens free, with the possibility to be free, to act responsibly from the moral point of view and to discern what is right and what is not, always...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.172.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.173.0	So, here I leave it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.174.0	The new item on the agenda is: the Government's inquiry into the decrease in student enrolments in universities and the precarious work of the teaching and research staff and the administration and service staff, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. [[Interview with the Government on the reduction of student enrolments in universities and the precarious work of teaching and research staff and administrative staff and services]] [[300-00021/11]] There's a word from Mr. Joan Giner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.175.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, the first of all is to recognize the efforts of the Councillor's predecessors, the Antoni Castellà and Mr Mas-Colell, in order to achieve a leading Catalonia, a Catalonia in the face of exclusion from higher education and in the face of precarious employment at Catalan universities; a job, as I understand it, which has caused the last years, since 2012, to have systematically and sustainably reduced the number of enrolled, enrolled, at Catalan universities, which has not happened since the post-war era. And it's that there's been a change in the funding model of Catalan universities, and it's a reality. According to the data of the Observers of the University System, public transfer to universities – not the global premise, but public transfer – has fallen by 45_per_cent. And the first thing I think about when I see this is, "Is that cool? Is that really possible? So, consulting the Royal Decree 14/2012, which is of the ministry, of presuppositional stability, we see that perhaps not so much. We don't have reliable data from the university's comptability, in fact, that shows the load in teachers and the load in search that is in the student's teacher's head, but, say, according to the data of this association, we can see how approximately 41_percent of the price of each student's teaching supports the materials, the royal decree says that a 20_per_cent, and therefore, supposedly we are incorrupting in an illegality in the funding model. The question is clear: what does the government intend to do before this situation? And, anyway, if it's not so, what formula do they use to calculate the weight of the materials in the dozen charge? And really this reduction in assumptions has led to an increase in the number of subjects. The grades have gone from between 700 and 1,000_euros to 1,500 and 2,300. And, at the same time, the categories, five to three, of the different titles, at the height, have changed; they have changed at the height. Also, it's a coincidence that this happened. And it's not just the shortcuts, but the application of the famous Bolonya pla, of which one was a student and was in the mobilizations at the time, and we've seen how, in the end, it didn't fit the European model– 4+1 doesn't fit the 3+2, which is from Europe, and now we're talking about changing it to 3+2 – but, in the end, the Bolonya model, which was a breath of materials, and so on, some covert shortcuts. In the end, the materials have gone from representing 16_percent of the university assumption to between 24_percent and 25_percent. If they were already over the middle of the European Union, we now find ourselves with models similar to xylè or the United States, models that extend a little from the university as public service and, in change, are models of saving capitalism, neoliberalism and understand the university for just a few. Let's think about it, because I think there's a lot of ideology here at the back. Basically, we are replacing the financing of public universities with private funding, in this case that of families. And it is that Catalonia is the sixth most important country in Europe to be able to study, according to the data of the association. And now that he sees a new reform, we think that he doesn't pass the same as before: that he doesn't use this 3+2 reform because there's a breath of materials, as happened with Bolonya. You, this morning, at the control session, have already said that you will ensure that the first year of mastership is held by the priests. We..., of good intentions does not live man, then we want or propose that there is, by writing, a compromise where the prices of degrees and masters, in a future, say, are balanced. And he's been given a degree in telecommunications that has all the master's, trunks and compulsory assignments, approved, but he doesn't have the title because it was too much to pay for in his time. And then we worry about how – how –, because with Bolonya we saw a game, a bass bet theater: to see what faculty, to see which university made a bass bet in academic criteria to the titles. And we don't want this to happen again. And we're just asking him what five methods or proposals the government has to prevent a devaluation of the academic criteria of the nine titles from being produced. But let's get back to the subject of subjects. So, what do we do with the stuff? And there's a solution, according to what you proposed in 2002, that it was the Equity Scholarships. Basically, Equity scholarships give a compensation of tuition according to the income of students. We don't disagree, we agree, it's a good idea. The problem with this idea is that, to begin with, I would not say scholarship, I would say tuition compensation, so let's not fool anyone, and the other problem is that they are insufficient. But we do not stay here; it is that they are much more insufficient if, in the end, we agree that, both the ministry and the government, does not pay the universities the import of these scholarships; therefore, the universities must be indebted in order to be able to deal with this. What's going on here? We have some scholarships that are used to balance and equal the right to everyone, and in the end, what we find is that universities that have lower levels of education have to bring more money – so, take it from one another... – that universities that have higher levels of education. So, we're running into one, say, contradiction, because what we see is that these scholarships are the opposite effect that they do. Basically, we ask what value the government makes of these scholarships; what percentage, compared to the total tuition, they think it solves, and if the government, at least the part that surrounds it, plans to pay these scholarships to the universities. We understand that these are insufficient and we understand that many of us are here, right? , and we want to create a country model, we make a process, and, with this, we believe that it is necessary that the right to study, say, the right to learn, is guaranteed. And we'll all agree on that. And from Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, we said it this morning, we would follow it all these days, it causes us a little contradiction that tells us that there is no money, for example, to make more scholarships or to guarantee this right to study and, in change, there are large companies making tax fraud in Catalonia or we have a neoliberal tax model, including the more wealthy sectors of society still paying less taxes than we do. So while they're not getting excited, and Mr. Junqueras, who's not here today, changing the tax model, young people are learning things; we're learning the ability to unfold, right? That's what I'm talking about. I've had seven jobs, huh? , during my career. We study in the mornings, we practice in the afternoons and we work in one place, another and another; it's a skill we're learning. And we are happy, with this ability; the issue is that this causes us to see the youth poverty in Catalonia increasing, as the National Youth Council of Catalonia says, which really starts to be a difficult problem and we are contributing indirectly, or directly, to this problem. I just want to tell him that the young people don't stop in this country and that 2011 we closed the faculties for the Bolonya theme, that a May 15th we went out to the street and we took the seats and that if we continue on this line, we don't know where we'll get the second time we get up. And let's move on to the subject of job insecurity that we were looking at, I was looking at many faculties. And it caused me a lot of feeling a problem that is right in the Autonomous. And it turns out that, according to the platform in defense of Chapter VI, 25_percent of the staff of the Autonomous is under contract in fraud of law, which means that it is not regularized its contract. 25_per_cent. We are talking about temporary contracts of more than three years that follow temporary contracts, contracts that do structural tasks of the university, and they are temporary contracts, or people that do activities, with temporary contracts, that do not have to see with their contractual reason. That's a problem. So, we'd probably agree that this is a problem. I wanted to talk about the five hundred-euro fellows we have at the UB or the ones we have at the UPC. Actually, if we want to hold a high quality university, right? Like the Home Ruler, it's a problem we have to deal with; basically ask what the government wants to do before that. And I want to be an example of sensitizing, a story of..., various stories of PhD students, of twelve years of work chaining false contracts. Fixed what happened to this person: he completed his doctorate, three months of associateship, five months to the Rectorate, three years to the Ministry, two years to a company linked to the Autonomous, four years to the Rectorate, four years to another date to the Rectorate with another contract and two years to a project, and during these twelve years that the person was working in the same chair, with the same computer, doing the same responsibilities. It can't be that, in the end, our people with more talent leave or have it so badly, because it ends up leaving, and it's that I'm from the Autonomous Telecommunications Faculty and she's not the first or last person who's seen friends and friends of hers, with a lot of future, leave because they didn't have a career. Therefore, diem: we do not believe that we need to stabilize the plants at the university, especially in the case of the Autonomous, that it is a very serious problem, with contracts such as Chapter VI, false associates, fellowships...? In the end we are causing the talents to leave; we have people who can bring a lot here and who are leaving for that. And there is, above all, a model of academic career for these people who are doctors, who are investigating, who are working there, a fixed model of academic career that certainly gives them security so they don't have to look for life outside. And finally, a more political conclusion. You listen: a university for everyone or a university for a little bit. You listen if you continue with the Convergence and Union governance model or if you want to take a look at university policies – let us expect it. You listen if you work rape rape with the young man or the students, or if you want the young man demanding the heads of the responsible ones out here. We're with the students. And you? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.176.0	Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.177.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Congressman. Deia: I made a huge effort on behalf of my predecessors, who have made it possible to place and place the Catalan and Catalonia University in the leader and the most paid of universities. Look, I would say that the ingenious effort my predecessors have made was just to try and maintain the quality of the university and to be pointers in it, especially with those families, and those people, and those students, with mid- and lower returns, because, it's true, I won't find them out if I tell them that these years later, so they haven't been easy for the university system. The reduction of resources that all governments have been forced to do has impacted all policies, on all; also – also – on university policies and teaching policies, there has been no exception. And in this sense, and so as to avoid a more important flood of entrances yet, it was decided to increase the price of the license plate. Yeah, that's right. Now, this increase in tuition fees couldn't be... it couldn't be an individual and indiscriminate increase. It was good to get old at all times when no student was excluded from university access due to a lack of resources. Therefore, the increase in taxes was partly offset by a grant policy which allowed the system to increase its resources, seeking to affect the minimum possible equity in access. And that's the origin of the rent rate, or the social rate of university taxes. Therefore, we had one political and two less. On one side, taxes, and on the other, scholarships. One_little allows to balance in part the assumptions of the universities; the other little allows to guarantee access to the university for people with medium or low returns. And at this point I would like to point out that the effort that students and their families are making to support higher education by raising taxes to approximately 20 and a half percent of the cost of their service; that is, 80 per cent of the cost is paid by all of us through taxes. And I would also like to make another comment when it comes to taxes and prices and how they have increased, and percentages of increase. These percentages and imports are highest. The social pricing price gives a price adapted to each student and to his or her circumstances. And that's the reality. I do not deny that there are people or families with superior returns who have paid all the increase, which is there, and that happens, but neither..., and that will not deny us, and it is not less true, and this, for us, is the most important part, that there are many people who will end up paying less, much less, or even less, with this tax system. Today, 40_percent– 40_percent– of graduate students to public universities enjoy a scholarship or some discount, and that means about seventy_ thousand people. I mean, not everyone pays that 20 percent, people pay a lot less. In addition, speaking of equity scholarships, the existence of equity scholarships has also affected part of the change in criteria that was made by the State, when they changed three years ago, Minister Wert changed the valuation of the scholarship system, and made an assessment with economic criteria and with criteria of note, and left 6,000 people – at that time 6,500, now 6,000 people – who could take the scholarship according to the criteria with which they had previously held the scholarship, and they would not have been excluded, and with the equity grants these have remained and continue to collect. Therefore, you ask us: is there a compromise that with this change from 4+1 to 3+2, therefore, you do not suppose an increase in the price that students have to pay when they are enrolled? Yeah, that's it. He said: "Can they sign? It is signed; it is signed for a decision of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. There it is. And the compromise is that the change is done by model only attentive academic motivations. If it is done it will not entail an increase in the cost of taxes that students will have to pay the first year of master. And it won't assume, and that's important, no decrease in resources on the part of the universities that do. So, that's the compromise. And I'll give you some data, because you said, "No, with this we can..., the university is at the service of the rich and at the service of the people only with elevations... Look, it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen. If we look at the percentage, in relative terms, of the population divided to twenty-four years that is in college, it's a 40_per_cent, just like it was in the last few years. There was no damage, on the contrary, there was an increase; it was slight, but there was. And if we look at the students who are at university today, those who are at university today, it turns out that of 57_percent of the students who are enrolled in Catalan universities– of 57_percent–, their peers do not have higher studies. Therefore, today's university continues to be a factor of social cohesion, the social ascent. That's what we have. Miri, there was a compromise also – also – from the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia that from the year 2012 to the year 2020 would apply a repositioning rate of 50_percent of the teaching research staff and of the PAS to come and go giving an internship to this staff. There are things we haven't been able to do for a simple reason: because the basic laws of the State and the laws of assumptions have limited the repositioning rate since there was agreement in 2012. The year 2013 and the year 2014 the repositioning rate for the teaching investigator staff was 10_per_cent, not 50, as we wanted, and for the administration staff and services was 0_per_cent. And this has created a problem, therefore, of temporality and lack of staff stability, right. And we want to solve it. Until now we had the will..., the will of the entire university system of Catalonia, the universities, the administrations, the staff, the students, was to proceed to the stabilization of this staff. We couldn't do it, because we didn't have the instruments. From then on, we want to start talking about the stability of the administrative staff and the services and the teaching staff. This – this – is our will, and so we will begin negotiations with trade union representatives to see how we give, so compliment this objective, which is what we want. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , because in the title of his inquiry he said: "No..., as taxes, as the evolution of the price of materials has allowed, has caused a reduction in the number of students. Well, let's look at the demography, too. No, no, let's look at the demographics, because in terms of the coverage rate of university students, with students of the divided age at twenty-four years, it has increased. Therefore, if in absolute value there is a decrease, we look at how they have also decreased the percentage and evolution in absolute values of the young people of this country. Because if it compares and compares this with the rest of the autonomous communities and with the autonomous communities until and until they have increased the taxes in the measure that have increased in Catalonia, it will be as the decrease in the number of students is higher. So, if these things happen, no... there has to be a direct cause-effect between rising taxes and reducing the school population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.178.0	There's a word from Mr. Joan Giner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.179.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, thank you for your answer. Four points; let's start at the end, since that's more... The issue of reducing the number of students is a reality. I think we don't have to hear so much... or so, we can play the game of seeing if the youth demography is reduced and the absolute names are quadrupled..., in the end, what we have is a crisis situation where the people's income is reduced a lot. We defend that we must tend to a model much more similar to many European countries, which are models more free than they do allow entry to everyone. And it's obvious that in barrels like mine, where there's a 50_percent youth force, that an enrollment and costs three_000_euros a month, so it's a pal·liatiu because people don't go to school. So, I think it's cheating on the lonely, that. We're talking about the subject of scholarship fees, aren't we? In this case. It seems very interesting; I don't know if it's proposing anything new or something that's already there, because... I think that now what we're going to find or what we're going to tend to, in this case, is the decrease of 66_percent of the bid, that basically what we're going to ask is that, in the price decree that we're going to do next, it's getting back to the 2011 price, and not like a revolutionary solution, just like a "start here" thing, and then we're going to work, which is important. I was surprised by the 20.05_per_cent calculus of the docent charge. As we do not know, say, the method or numerical calculation that it uses, I invite you to publish the data and that we can put all and all, and above all the student associations that are dedicated to vetting for the quality of the public university. For me, I think it's the least. On the subject of reforms and guarantees, don't be mistaken, eh? : We don't ask that the first year of master has the same price they had the degrees. We believe that there must be a compromise where degrees and masters must have an equivalent price. It can't be in the end that we find out who the master is – and that happened with 4+1, huh? , or so, in my particular case – it cannot be that the masters are worth double or very high prices..., then we need, say, a law, a compromise in the coming years that access to the professions will not have a leap to the economic, cost, scale that passes between many degrees and masters to the Catalan universities. In the repositioning rate, which you said, it is true that the rate is 0_per_cent to the PAS and 10_per_cent to the PDI. The excuse, I say, is that there's been an extension of assumptions, we haven't had the tools... okay. So, now that we have the tools, now what we have to do is put ourselves to work because that's solutions. And what we have asked above all is that for the most flagrant cases, such as those in Chapter VI to Autonomous, we are looking for a solution. Because we're talking about 25_percent of the PAS and PDI staff in the Autonomous Region, a high quality university, the big ones we have in Catalonia, and it's a topic that needs to be solved as soon as possible in this case. On the subject of scholarships, the question is whether or not you would return to the universities, I repeat to you, the importance that is given to scholarships – I don't tell the ministry, because we are much more far away, but above all... –, to which you are compromised. And, on the subject of the precariousness of the faculty and the attendance staff, I think that more than solving the difficult problems, such as those of Chapter VI or those of the false associates to most universities, which is above all to make a regulation of the contractual forms of these investigators and these attendance staff. Basically, all we've been through the university have seen a lot of false associates, a lot of fellows occupying stable places at the university; in my case of engineering, telecos, I've seen a lot of people leaving for Malaysia, the United States and Europe, because they had a contract of these characteristics. Call a new regulation. And if we have the new tools, with the assumptions of this year, so we can do it, then, there, let's do it. And at times I need to create an academic career model, academic career models, which I have given security, to this staff. And, finally, I believe that the tools or the new tools to do this are not – and I repeat this – in some assumptions, so, just as they do, say, nine input sources – and we will repeat it and we will continue to repeat it in the near future – as a new tax model in this case that gives this input source to guarantee basic rights, as today, the right to study. And what we're putting in place, above all, is the government's thinking about this and thinking about it especially at the time of setting up our presuppositions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.180.0	The word has the counselor Jordi Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.181.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, you said: "What is the method of calculation that is used to determine the 20_per_cent effort, which is what families pay in taxes? Well, it is a method of calculation that is public, that we will already make it transparent, and, moreover, it has been endorsed by the High Court of Justice of Catalonia in a judgment when they come up with a complaint that they made, that they doubted some students or some collection of the Autonomous University of Barcelona..., therefore, it was denounced, and from here the High Court of Justice of Catalonia concluded that the way and method they used in this case the Administration to calculate what was the effort made by students and families in the matter of paying university fees was the appropriate method. And, therefore, 20 and a half percent is the price, and it's the cost that families and students who study, and the remaining 80 percent is what we all pay with our taxes. So... And this is... And, therefore, it seems to me that it is a transfer that is from society to students and families, that it seems to me that it is a transfer that we have to value all and we have to put in the right..., in full, because it is more important, more important, because the university continues to be one of the main social lifts in this country, and the data that I have already given it are data that they assume and that pose a manifest that this social lift still works and is currently valid today, in the days of today. Says you: "Master's prize equals degree prize. Look, listen, we can talk about everything, when there are resources; no... we have never refused to talk about this, but what we can't do is promise things that we can't accomplish. And now, in these moments, what do we have to do? Is it to increase university fees because there were no resources and to prevent the Catalan university from ending up in a much worse situation than it was at present, as we now want to commit ourselves to guaranteeing it without more assumptions? If there are more assumptions we can talk about, it is obvious, there are already resolutions of the Parliament that are approved in this sense; if there are more assumptions we can talk about these things, if there are no better assumptions and the Economic and Vice-President's advisor has already said it, that for this year there will not be... First, we still have no assumptions; second, when there are assumptions there will be an increase in inputs; when there is this increase in inputs we can talk about it. Then, careers, professional careers to give a job to the teaching staff; we have them, and we have them, and we have imaginations and pacts. That is to say, we want all the repositioning of all the retirements that there is, a 50_per_cent slips into repositioning of teaching research staff, and of this teaching research staff, the majority vagin for staff, maintaining the percentage that there is and that demands state law for us – at the moment – that there is a majority of staff that will work. We hire staff who are working and who are given a career-enabled career in universities through the Serra Húnter program and through all the programs that can do the same universities. This is what we want, and we also want this same disabled for the administration staff and you serve all the universities. I will remind you of some data, too, to see how the rates are, because of administrative staff and you serve... Currently, in Catalonia, at the conjunction of our universities, there are eighty-six administrative staff and you serve for every hundred teaching staff and investigator, while the average of this state is in seventy-two administrative staff and you serve for every hundred. This, we don't care, what we want is to give this off. Therefore, and speaking of scholarship, what we would like is to manage 50 million scholarships that the Ministry of Education and Science is currently managing and that we should be able to continue to administer. If we did, we would continue to insist on social pricing, on paying for income. Because what we want is that every time there is a larger base of families with medium and low returns that can have access, at the lowest possible cost, at the lowest possible cost, and also at the lowest possible opportunity, at the Catalan university. That's what we want. And from here, if we can arrange it – that there are Constitutional Court rulings that give us the power to manage the scholarships and these haven't been effective yet – if we can, then we would go in this line and in this direction. Thank you very much, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.182.0	The wish of the order of the day is to ask the government about sanitation. [[Question to the Government about sanitation]] [[300-00022/11]] Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.183.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, counselors, councillor Comín, deputies, deputies and people who accompany us both to the room and to social networks. My first words are intended to give thanks and respect to all those professionals who work in Catalonia's Emergencies System, professionals who think they deserve all the admiration and respect as working companions, who think it is good to remember here that they are dedicated to working for twenty-four hours to ensure everyone's salvation. And, therefore, as long as we are in a Ple as when we are sleeping or traveling, we always have professionals of salvation who are always available to give them attention and who, moreover, have a level of excellence, of professional excellence that I think is especially important, therefore, to recognize. And to contextualize something that I want to comment on today with this inquiry, I would like to remember, right? When Members and Members of this House came to this house in the evening at a certain level of extremes, they asked each other, drafting motions and negotiating. I guess at that moment or ask them, don't I? What do you imagine at that moment that would have happened if any of these deputies had an affair in this house? Surely he would have had an oppressive, strong, very intense chest pain; if he had not been alone at his home, then he would then have asked for help, but as he had passed the seconds, this clinical situation, of any one, of this deputy, would have been every time worse. And, therefore, we would have asked for help, and then we would have alerted the uixers, therefore, that they had a clear plan of intervention in Parliament and, therefore, we would have alerted the emergence services, that they would have come diligently, and while, probably, those uixers who were trained would have brought a suitcase that we had down to the front door, with a defibrillator, and obviously, I would not have to say, if I had been at the house myself and had been warned, I would have been corrected to provide assistance. The same one that I'd do right now if any of the deputies in this chamber fell apart, huh? And you had a really hard thing, huh? You're a tough health worker. But today we would play with an added advantage and it is that at the very end of this pass we have an SEM team that, therefore, in the matter of the second we would have the maximum health care that can be provided to Catalonia, because we are well cared for. And, therefore, it is a system that works extraordinarily well in Parliament and works, therefore, quite well in Barcelona. Easy to hear, because the rounds, the structural layout of the streets in Barcelona and that each cardinal point we have strategic hospitals, makes the model of ambulances and medical emergencies work as it works, with some normality. Now, I wouldn't like to be or have the same situation that I just described to you if, for example, you're in Valls tomorrow and it happens to you as happened to this lady, huh? That in the morning, at eight o'clock in the morning, he calls out warning that his man is offending himself very much. And, therefore, the emergency services tell them that they have to send an ambulance from Tarragona, located twenty-one miles away. Approximately, information sources that make this circuit in ambulance tell me that it divides minutes is the norm and, for many people say that it will take several minutes to arrive, so they reflect it on the report and find it with a critical situation of a patient that saturates to 75_per_cent. I mean, imagine yourself, don't you? , if you now have a great difficulty, then, to breathe, what would happen. Well, with all due diligence – and I come back to congratulate these professionals – two technicians sent in this situation. So they did what was best they could do in this situation, without having the support of a meth and a professional nurse destined for emergencies, and they did very well, and they did something that is technically said escape and run, which means carrying the patient from the ambulance and getting out as quickly as possible to find advanced help, huh? So, they put on an oxygen mask and this gentleman was saved, huh? And that's why I insist on congratulating and thanking the work that these professionals do. But, of course, if we're talking about topicality we have a problem, this is one of the cases. I've caught one of the cases today that are more cautious, more yours and that, in the world, ended well, huh? But there's a lot more. We have an important health problem – some of the companies from these icons were commenting on it the other day on a parliamentary question – we have a problem that you solved, and that you, moreover, solved... – as much as Mr Junqueras is not at his side – you have a solution without spending. I always like to bring ideas into this feeling, huh? And, therefore, the solution without spending is donated for redistribution, I told you the first day in your presentation. There are many ideas, I'll bring some today, but there are many ideas to take over and improve sanitation without spending, but simply redistributing resources better. And obviously I would try to do it with a conciliator, so as not to create alarmism, because I understand that it's a complicated issue and alarmism here is dangerous, but it's true that both professionals in the sector and professional colleges, such as citizen plataforms, such as health workers' unions, have made alarms, have denounced this issue and, therefore, it's a topic that concerns us and I think we should all be concerned about. Now, we have basically four types of ambulances: we have the Tangos, they are these basics, like what they described as going to Valls, where there are two technicians; we have the Mikes, who are the..., so, for which we have worked in the profession, the ancient VAMs, where there is a metge, a nurse and a technician, in that ambulance; we have the Indias, where there is a nurse and a technician, and we have the VIRs, which is the new creation – and here is the problem – where there is a metge and a technician, with the argument that they are fast intervention vehicles, as the name says, and that they work well in Barcelona. Clearly, the examples come when we extrapolate this to the territory and I am convinced that in a territory such as we have, no one would think of it, for example, in an operating room, in a difficult operation, leaving a surgeon alone doing and the anesthesiologist, so if you need it already you will cry it out. Or I don't understand how the squadron moves, do I? So we don't send them to a pick-up or a pick-up... well, first there's a squad ride: "If you need help, warn the other one. Because we're talking..., and in this, I insist, today I'm talking about emergencies and emergencies are all those pathologies that are time-dependent, because I have the idea of mind: infarcts, embolism, a stroke, someone who comes out of the way and, therefore, a polytrauma... Every minute that will pass on this circuit, every minute will exponentially increase the mortality of our patients. Therefore, it is a very worrying issue that, moreover, requires a health rigour to which policy I believe must give an answer. Well, how is that distributed, then, to the territories? Well, Tarragona... I carry maps for, then, if anyone wants to see how I've scored all the ambulances we have, both medically and in India, and I've also made Mikes and, obviously, we've tried to make a clear plan of improvement and restructure these ambulances across the territory, which, geographically, moreover, is more in line with distribution, with the lives of rapid access and, obviously, with cities like Tarragona, where there are a lot of people. To do so, then, let's put this: Tarragona doesn't fit, Vendrell doesn't fit because he's in Torredembarra; the secondary transfers, that is, transfers he does with a metge, when we need Lleida to get a patient into Barcelona, so he leaves for more than five hours Lleida without a metge and, therefore, is in Alcarras, whoever knows geography, so, well, that's a minute he'll be late. I'm not saying anything anymore if, in the meantime, Alcarra's doctor is working and, therefore, is acting, Lleida is left without meth. Well, and so, a long one will etcetera. And, besides, it's an inefficient model, because its deployment – as you said the other day and said in various communication media – depends on the circumstances. What's going on? To a home up a Tango, two technicians; up a VIR, therefore, with a technician and a meth and, if the nurse is needed, they have to activate India and, therefore, another technician and a nurse. Totally, when before we sent a Mike, who was a vehicle with the three companies, now four technicians, a meth, a nurse and three vehicles are coming. Clearly, when I propose an efficiency model I mean in this line, huh? And, therefore, I think this model needs to be adjusted. Model that at some point may be ineffective, because when we're in front of Mrs. Maria, Mrs. Antònia or Mrs. Carme, and the first person, then, is a person who has to intubate, who intubates it? My opinion is that he has to intubate the meth, that he's prepared to do it. Who administers the medication to a stunned patient? Who administers it? The doctor? When are the nurses, the ones who are able to take lives in a situation of shock? So, you don't have to disagree either, do you? I went to scientific evidence and here I bring the last article published a few days ago, in one of the best world magazines on the subject, in which – with a factor impact of four and a half – you clearly say that multidisciplinary teams, when one emerges, are the most cost-effective and, obviously, the ones that save lives. So, how about this multidisciplinary model in emergencies? I believe that what is not to take advantage of these doctors and nurses, because if they have a leftover time, then they go on consulting, and then leave things hanging and running, so to do their job. And so I think that if we don't do it with the police, we don't do it with the teachers, so I think we need to establish a clear job competition for these professionals and, as I've heard – and if anyone says it, because they've come out of the council, you'll be commenting on it – "Putting a doctor to an India isn't making a Mike." And, therefore, this theme, so, I don't know how you want to focus, but it is important for me to take over the professional – as you said the other day –, to take over the professional of primary care, which is just in contrast to this theme. And to finish this part of the intervention – as we propose to talk about it, so, on the second part, but – yes, I want to say, I am very clear, you are not to blame for how this worked and, therefore, I do from the..., I don't know, from my conciliator, as I know it, so I ask you to make a call, huh? Make a call; I think a call will save many lives, huh? It's not that I want to sound biblical, but it really is. Well, as I say, and finally, I think that all this has to be done, it can be done at zero cost, reorganizing..., and as you see on Holy Week and there will be accidents and all that, so, well, I want to warn you because when this young man gets here, I take the job very well done. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.184.0	Greetings from the Councillor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.185.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Soler, indeed, I thank you very much – very much, very much – because I understand that in this matter we all want to try to solve a problem. Let me, though, put them a little in the background. Let's just say, the model change, just in this case, we should, too, admit..., I have publicly admitted that there are problems and that we need to come up with – I said it the other day in this same hemisphere – if they are model or implant problems, and that is what we are doing. And at the end of the intervention, I'll clear it up a little bit more. But in any case, we'd have to admit that the model change has a good intention, huh? , why the model, from the start, what it does is increase the number of vehicles available; increase the number of meters, huh? : twenty-five contracts of us metges, in fact, to cover the new VIR, let's say, the fast intervention vehicle. Because, let's make sure that we double Mike with India and VIR, but from VIR there are fifteen, so we have to make five additional VIRs that do not come from the unfolding of the gods Mike. Therefore, in this sense, they are more vehicles, they are more doctors, and, above all, they are more flexible and more able to intervene depending on the specificity of the patient's situation. Therefore, the intention, the project, the will, in this sense is positive, let's say. The theory is correct – let's say so, I understand –; now the situation has given rise to problems. Also, another antecedent. We put the incidences, exactly, in their fair measure. They didn't, and I think my obligation is to recognize them, and I did, and I did it clearly, huh? And, moreover, we are acting and we have opened out to the contracting companies, because we understand that some of the incidents deserve the opening of a dispatch and, possibly, a sanction. But it is true that the incidences above all – above all, above all – have remained in non-urgent health transport; in terms of volume, the largest volume of incidences are in non-urgent health transport, are from the months of generation and fever and are in Girona. Therefore, I respond a lot to one of the awards and to the way it began to provide this service. And then, there were some incidents, which for us aren't minor, because one single incident is already relevant to the department, some incidents in the urgent health transport to the Jew, huh? And in this sense, we're taking notes. You see, the new model we understand has to adapt to the specificity of the territory, but without going back. This would be a little bit the philosophy of change that we understand lies in the deployment and implementation of integrated health transport. Why? Why don't we just go back? Because we are also getting positive data from the new model. For example, from the outset, an acclamation – which you don't need to do –: 82_percent of the activity of the SEM is vital basic service. And, therefore, here there has been no change, the basic life support model continues to feel, exactly, the same as always, and it is most of the activity of the SEM, and here there has been no change of model. So, if we go to the other 20 – still not up there – percent of the activity of the SEM, which is the advanced life support, here, effectively, we have positive and negative data. Therefore, we will have to be very nuanced, very curious at the time of, if you want to say so, correcting the application of this new model, it was no more than in the rectification, rather than rectifying what has not been good, we finish rectifying what is now better than before. Why, indeed, I would say: "What is the intention – we know very well – of the new model for which it does the advanced life support? It's trying to prioritize patient assistance in situ, avoid unnecessary hospitalizations. That's why the VIR's upstairs. The VIR that allows you to arrive much faster – just in line with what you say – because in urgency the time is now, that you arrive before, that the VIR has a higher speed of arrival and that allows you to identify better a series of things: first, whether you move or not, second, if you move, at what type of center you move. Avoid, sometimes, what is classic in the case of emergencies, which is double input, huh? Ingredients in a first center, which, when they make the patient's appreciation on arrival, end up deciding a_second ingredients in a center... The VIR that does, exactly, is that the metge arrives with the ability to make the appreciation in situ and avoid the input or avoid an input that does not follow what the patient needs, right? Okay. In this line, do we have any data to confirm that this intention of the new model is a certain intention? Yes, partly yes, why, what do we have? Since we have..., from the 14 of gener, because this starts to work the 14 of gener, that 21_percent of the cases are resolved in situ. That's because there's the VIR, before Mike gets here and the patient goes to the hospital, in most cases; in change, we can now keep the patient, resolved, in situ. The other thing that's very important too, which is: 70 percent of the journeys are done with India, it's done with advanced life support, with nursing. It means that you don't have to take the meth to move the patient from the scene of the incident to the care center you have to go to. And that, obviously, is improving efficiency. You have, indeed, placed on the table the key criterion, according to which we will have to evaluate the implementation and deployment of this new model, which is the efficiency. We made the change to be even more effective than we were. We made the change because the evaluation of the Barcelona model gave us the following conclusion: the Barcelona model is more efficient. The evaluation of the models of the countries of northern Europe, which is the Barcelona model, tells us: this type of intervention is more efficient. And that's why he decides, and that's why I insist on the initial argument to apply this model that he did years, many years that he did serve in Barcelona, the rest of the territory, with the conviction that there would be an increase in efficiency. Now what we're doing, right, is analyzing if there's this efficiency gain. When data tells us that 21_percent of VIRs resolve cases on the spot, or when data tells us that 70_percent of transfers do India..., man, this is data that says that from this point of view, we are improving efficiency, right? The meth is set free. When we didn't have India and we only had the vital service advanced with meth, the meth had to accompany the patient to the hospital or to where he was, and therefore the meth was not available to make another assistance that could be produced at that very moment. So, are there any efficiency increases? There are efficiency gains. Are there any incidents? There's-there's incidents. The two things are true now. And, therefore, what have we done? First, open expedient. Then, commission two reports: one to the Aquas, as an evaluation agency, and another report, directly from the emergency, to the same Servivei Català de la Salut. That what they're doing is putting an implant model on top of the table, checking if the implant is in agreement with that model and, therefore, an assessment model to see if the problems we have are strictly, exclusively, implant problems; it's to say, if they are better for professionals, if they make the people hear better the virtues of the new model we have enough, and the only one we need to fix is that, because it means that the problems will have been implanted. I insist, in the case of medical transport not urgent, the incidences have fallen to pieces from the month of March, to Girona. Why? Because that's where the incidences have been identified as implant incidences. All right, settle down, or pretty settle down, huh? The evaluation model and the evaluation of the implementation must bring us to a conclusion if the problems we have are indeed strictly of implementation, and then, I insist, the measures that we will have to take will be of this type of formation and explanation to the territory, or if there are indeed problems in the same design of five vehicles, five professional vehicles, five vehicles, on which bases, on which places, etc. – how many vehicles to each territory. In any case, as it is not disposable that there is a bit of everything, it is to say that the problems of the new model are partly implanted and partly designed, we have, already, planned before we have a plan to reform health transport is that, if the model is valid throughout the territory, what is certain that it is not valid is not to adapt it from the territorial delegations of the department to the specific circumstances of each territory. I mean, if we keep it in mind, if we decide not to go back to the old model, before, huh? Mike, just Mike, let's say it, and diem: "No, no, it's okay to have Mike, but it's okay to have India and it's okay to have VIR. If we decide that this model, really, gives a porosity, a flexibility, a higher reaction capacity, which I'm sure is not worth applying it in an automatic way, as if all Catalonia was Barcelona, because that doesn't work. And, if we keep it in the model, the reform that sure is to be done is the territorial adaptation depending on the specificities of each territory of this new model. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And if I do, then I'll just explain a little bit better. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.186.0	There's a word from Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.187.0	Well, thank you so much again, Madam President. Counselor, we sweep things, huh? They say to my house: "If he laughs, it is the water that leads. When so many people in the professional sector are saying that the system fails, the system fails. If you say with good speech that it doesn't fail, because there are other systems and other circumstances, I give it to the press release, so, what did it do..., and that, besides, I think it's perfect, right? And they published it all the media, said that, didn't they? , that if 19_percent of the rapid intervention vehicles have reached the patient, therefore, they are available... So, of course, if you read it that way someone who doesn't understand what it is to stabilize a patient, then it will be fine. I'm just saying, and that's why, if you see how I started my intervention..., it's: what would potentially happen to an emerging case? I'm not talking about normal emergencies, I'm not talking about secondary transfers, it's that I'm talking about emergencies, I'm talking about people who infarct and who, in the matter of minutes, die; or an embolism that, in the matter of minutes, die; or an accident that comes to Vendrell with a polytrauma and that as someone who gives him the tube dies offended in his own blood. It's that we're talking about this and not about something else, and that's why it does seem to me that the subject is especially difficult. Clearly, you said: "There are not too many unsolved cases. Clearly, because the medical community already knows how to work: it's prudent, it costs them a lot, so report cases, they mail you one after the other. I mean, we're trying to use the pyramid, so, normal, rule of law, to solve the cases. But that doesn't mean the system doesn't work. I assure you that every person, from the people who are contacting me, from among the SEM, in many levels, who contact with many, therefore, tells me that this, therefore, is not right. Tell me Mike doesn't carry any less, it's just the other way around, if that's what he already did, Mike. And they were optimizing, because with the same vehicle they used to ride the meth, the nurse and the technician, and they were carrying. What's the problem? Because from his words I deduced what I did read to the previous government, which surprised me. It seemed that the concern was that, when a meth or a nurse arrived at a place, they could stabilize without loading. As if it were cost..., little cost effect. And it's not like that, because before... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I don't know..., no. Counselor, when a doctor arrived from the VAM before and needed not to carry the patient, because stability, a basic carried him, and automatically Mike remained active. They don't explain this, and I know they don't, because the one who designed this deliberately forgot about it. But, of course, those of us who know them, we do. Mike could do this perfectly. So, my stance, and I'm back to insist. I think we need to redistribute this territory. I'm not saying you can just shut it down. If it's that with little moves..., if it's that I've said it very easily: I think I need a doctor in Tarragona, where there is a port, where there are many inhabitants. How does Salou feel about sending him to 061, which is based on Reus? And how late are twelve minutes to get to Tarragona? If you do this, it's free. You can't say no to that, can you? Clearly, what I do see – and from your words I tell you, eh? Because that's what they gave as a message – they're more vehicles. That's true. Clar, if a fast, basic vehicle comes up, huh? With two cave dresses, and they're already doing something... so, look, the health system's up fast. But, of course, it's that I wasn't talking about staying, so neither flowers nor decoration, nor that it's all very nice, it's that I was talking about actually having an effective system. And when we need a health emergency, we need to go who else can do it. I, of course, need to stabilize. That's what Mike did. If the big thing about these ambulances is that when there was a polytrauma, they stabilized it on the road, under the car. These patients no longer get to hospital resuscitations, they go directly to surgery or ICUs. Of course, thank you for that! That we now have a separate system, that for some things can work, but when they need a multidisciplinary team, obviously not, because the minutes have passed. So, I think it's time to brush up. I already know, I think that the topic of professionals for me is especially important, because I think that sometimes, if not, with this pyramid of information, so I think that the information above is quite sloppy and from time to time, too, it's important that the information comes from those who are on the street, huh? You're talking about incidences, dispatches. Miri, I think... in this case, huh? , and, again, with emergences–, the incidents and the dispatchers serve for the Barnaclinic, for the works of contract and expansion of the Broggi, the Truth – we will talk about in proper plenarys–, but they do not serve to fix this. This I think is a pact that I think we should make, that we should get out of here, you, with a call, say: "It's true, we have a problem. How can it be that, when Lleida's doctor is moving to Bellvitge, Lleida doesn't have a doctor? I mean, that's a problem, and it's called emergencies. They can't have the Tarragona in the tinguin meth and, therefore, move. Probably a lot of things could be done, huh? Today I came to make a statement at least; we would probably have to make a letter to the King Mags much bigger. But I would like this, which is important to me..., important because the week that you will have a holiday, and unfortunately there will be infarcts, and unfortunately there will be embolisms, and unfortunately there will be traffic accidents; we need at least our doctors and nurses prepared to respond to this they can access, and that no one comes out again saying in a public media: "And, if not, we will already call the CAP doctor and that he can with an India. Because, I insist, pushing a middle school teacher, leaving an unattended consultation with an India, it's not making a Mike – it's not making a Mike. So, I think it's... built. And to conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that we do not come here, so, to discuss this young man between a few days and that we are going to cover many of the issues that I think with a trick of his... I insist, it is a topic... that you would save alive. It's a trick. I have to write it down. Small changes, I insist, and I can call Mr. Junqueras and tell him. And besides, we wouldn't spend money, save lives. I think, counselor, that's why we're here. Many thanks, President; many thanks, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.188.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.189.0	Thank you, Madam President. You'd just want to put in context an expression that made you serve that I don't recriminate you, huh? , not much less – not the vein, Mr. Soler... –, which is « save lives. One moment – one moment – because we should try to be very curous, very curous, very curous with according to what expressions we serve in Parliament. We're clearing up the data. Mike hasn't disappeared. Life support advanced with metge has not disappeared. So you say that it was the one that assured us that you would arrive with the necessary conditions and professionals, with the necessary time, to make the necessary action, this appeal that you say is the one that saves you, and you say: "And therefore, we cannot give up this appeal, it has not disappeared. We had exactly 42 Mikes and now there are 32; from India there were 10, now there are 20, and there were no rapid intervention vehicles and now there were 15. That's why we're doing twenty-five more contracts, because there's a difference of five between the missing Mikes, who are only gods, and the VIR we believe, who are fifteen – five. And then it obliges me to explain one thing, which is very simple to hear and which you, moreover, know what happens so, that is that the EMS, when I call it, activates the appeal that falls depending on the gravity of the case, would only be missing. That is to say, the SEM at these times is on condition to say: "In this incident we have to send a Mike, because Mike is still in Catalonia, actually, for these cases of which you were talking to me. So, what I'm sure hasn't happened, I have to make sure with all force, is that there's no one dead – nobody – and absolutely no one – and I'm saying this with clarity, because we have all the cases analyzed in detail – in Catalonia because of the consequence of the new model, among other things, because, I insist, most of the incidents have to do with non-urgent health transportation, and the incidents, but few significant, that they have to do with urgent health transportation..., in any case – in any case – the change of model has been the cause of not being able to save a life, huh? Therefore, I insist, the EMS activates the units, it's Mike, it's India, it's VIR, depending on the state of the affected. In case of gravity, when the patient requires the intervention of the doctor, nurse and technician, the EMS activates Mike, obviously – obviously. And no life has been placed at risk, no one. Now, I made this clarification, which seems to me to be relevant, only to complement, that I do not correct, their words, I try to summarise the proposal in which I would like to find ourselves, because I would very much like to find ourselves, and that this subject may be resolved together, because as we resolve it more together, as more parliamentary groups participate in the solution of this problem, the more solid the reform will be, because it will be more well accompanied, let us say to ourselves, politically and socially, right? What I'm saying is, the first thing we have to finish is whether the failures we have today, the problems we have today, are implant or model. Hypothesis based on which we are working from the department: it's a combination – it's a combination – there are some of the errors that are implanted and there are some of the errors that are surely modeling. We were in an analytical error to say: "What are they, implant or model? It can be a combination of both. All right, if it's a combination of two things, the first thing we need to know is what size and what incidents are due to poor implantation and what incidents are modeling. To the extent that this hypothesis is true, that part of the problems are model problems, we will find ourselves with another decision, which is what I put them up to, ask them, to see if you agree with me, which is: these ‘model failures, these errors that we could end up concluding that they are model errors, are they resolved back to the previous model? – option 1 – i.e., we remove the VIRs and make Mike more, as we had until now, we renounce the VIRs, the rapid intervention vehicles – option 1 –; or maybe these implant problems – to confirm – are resolved adapting to the territorial reality, in a more precise and more detailed way, this new model? Because here we will also have to make a decision: if we resolve them by rectifying and returning to the previous model... Before you and I spoke informally about the case of the Pyrenees, where the model has changed, and it is true, there are no incidents there. I'm not happy now, am I? I'm the only one who says we're following, let's say, strict and say, "There are two ways to fix model failures. What I think we need to do, and with this I'm done, is wait for the reports – that of the Aquas we will have, as soon as possible, from here to one month and a half, and that of the Catalan service, before – and with the reports on the table I commit myself to putting them to you in knowledge of these reports and that, therefore, we decide together with the Health Commission if the correction of the model's errors has to go through to implant the new model from the territorial detail or to give it up. And we still don't have enough information to know which of the two reforms will work. Thank you, Madam President. And, I repeat, thank you for your construction, Mr. Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.190.0	The next item is the question to the Government on the environment presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government about the environment]] [[300-00023/11]] There's the word "Ms. Navy Bravo."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.191.0	Thank you, President. In December 2013, after a few days in which it had been necessary to activate the anti-contamination protocol, the Parliamentary Group Initiative per Catalunya Verds - Esquerra Unida i Alternativa was asking the Government about the shortcomings of the Action Plan and Air Improvement in the 2015 horizon. Indeed, there were many reasons why they should be questioned. First of all, he was very late. The plan, which was originally planned for the period 2011-2015, was put on public display in November 2013. There were only two years left to fulfill that. The government will surely say – or at least at the time – that, despite not being approved, many of its measures are already being implemented. We're not going to say no to that, but much less expect us to put a medal on them. Rather the opposite: there were measures under way, that is true, but precisely because one of the ‘virtues' – in quotes – of that plan was that it collected a lot of measures that were already done or that were already planned to carry them out within other infrastructure, mobility plans, which, while contributing to the improvement of air quality, had not been designed with that specific objective or for the areas where it was most needed. Reading the plan, of course, did not seem to be a plan really designed to detect the shortcomings that existed and improve on what was being done. It seemed rather like a sort of document facing the gallery, to show that much was already being done, when all the atmospheric measurements left clear evidence that what was being done would be good, it helped, but it was not enough at all. It is as if a doctor, like Jorge, tells me that he has found that I have a very serious problem and that I have to take steps to get fit, and I do what I do is give him a dosage and I say to him: "But, look, if I'm already doing all this. Obviously, if I have a problem, I have to do something else. Of course, if I stopped doing what I'm doing it would be worse, but it's not enough. Well, that was kind of what happened to that initial plan: it was fine, it would be much worse not to have had it, but it was not up to the gravity of the problem. There were basically a few things that they were going to do the same and some new that was practically a declaration of good intentions, and it wasn't enough. As time goes by, it is becoming increasingly evident that more was needed. That was in 2013, because it had been in non-compliance with the measures since 2010. Today we are in 2016 and we still do not comply. Just a month ago it was necessary to activate the protocol due to excessive pollution in the area of Barcelona, in this case by the African dust cloud that joined the pollution that we usually already have and blew the limits of particles below ten microns. On top of that, we had a subway strike, which I think will be discussed tomorrow. Well, total, that as a result of that 2013 inquiry a resulting motion was approved that included thirteen points with more than thirty paragraphs in total, that substantially improved the initial document and solved some of its shortcomings. Thus, the improved plan was finally approved a few months later and was already done by 2020, because we were already in..., well advanced 2014. This 2020 horizon is aligned with the recommendations of the « Clean Air of the European Union » programme. It sounded far away, 2020, but we only have four years left. Although we say that the motion improves the document, incidentally, in many cases as a result of amendments tabled by the governing party, the final text contained too much "to move forward in, "to improve in, "to revise, "to enhance, which made it so difficult or so easy, as we see it, to monitor its implementation. I say 'easy' because, in the face of some parliamentary question as to how the plan is going, documents like this are presented. [[The speaker shows it to the chamber]] , where it is said: « Measure one. Degree of compliance: advanced, intermediate, advanced, intermediate... Have we improved anything? Yeah. [[The joker laughs.]] These are not very concrete measures. What do we do with that? What we need is to know what results we are achieving with those measures, how many fewer cars there are, how many fewer emissions as a result of that implementation, those measures, and the key: when we will meet the objectives that we know more than fifteen years ago we would have to meet. And this is not what I say, this is what the European Commission says, which already said it in its day – you know – and which has said it again now, a little while ago. We are also told, in this letter, something worrying. We are told that in our plan, that of Catalonia, we have measures to be carried out by the Government of Spain, and that we do not seem to be very coordinated. He also says that if we do not agree, it is impossible for any forecast we make in our Catalan plans to coincide with reality. He tells us that with the plans we have today, there is no guarantee that we will comply. In 2013, while that motion was being debated, the World Health Organization stated that air pollution was carcinogenic and that the poor quality of the air we breathe is behind millions of premature deaths every year around the world. In relation to the pollution of Catalonia, it was estimated that every year it caused up to 3,500 premature deaths in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, in addition to having important economic costs and serious impacts on agriculture and ecosystems. The increasingly famous and familiar nitrogen oxides, in which we have suspended since we examined ourselves, since 2010, are the main problem. Also the particles less than ten microns, but it seems that in 2014 for the first time we have fulfilled, although by the hairs. But, well, anyway, that's fine. Although the policies promoted seem to want to point to some slight improvement – that is true – we are far from finding a solution. And so, taking advantage of the change of legislature that we have, we put this issue back on the table, to see if we can make a little more concrete what is the most urgent thing to do in the next four years. The main source of emissions of the pollutants that we are most concerned about is the very high number of private vehicles. If it hasn't changed recently, Barcelona was and I think it's still the city with the highest vehicle density per square kilometre in all of Europe. In addition, most vehicles are diesel, which in this case are more harmful. If we want to attack the main source of the problem, there are two options: to reduce congestion, the number of vehicles, or to reduce emissions from these vehicles. We are convinced that we must move forward on this second point, moving towards cleaner vehicles, hybrids in a first step, with alternative energy sources below. We have to work on this, but unfortunately it does not seem that we can wait for the necessary changes for a conversion of the car park of this type; that is clear. So, although it is essential to move forward also in this line of increasing the percentage of low- and zero-emissions vehicles in the medium term, with only four years ahead we have nothing but focus our efforts on how we can effectively reduce the number of private vehicles accessing the most polluted areas. We have to take action now. First, because if we fail to reduce the number of vehicles by the good ones, which would be our intention, we will have to end up doing what for the bad ones. We don't like prohibitions – we don't like anything – but with health it's clear that you don't play games. Secondly, and even more important, because if, in the end, we actually get to the point of having to impose on the citizens, at some point, some measure that can affect their day-to-day lives, we have to be prepared, and this is where we fail the most. We must have done our duties first, we cannot say: "Tomorrow you cannot take the car, and above it you wake up, because we have not even prepared the ground for you; because I have not had time to prepare for it in these fifteen years. Now we only have four left, so we have to act fast. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.192.0	Reply to the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.193.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, secretary of the Environment and Sustainability, I thank you for bringing this subject here to Parliament, and the concrete terms as you put it. This is a serious issue that requires a level of first-rate public commitment. I would like to take advantage of this inquiry to find out exactly what we are talking about and in what terms we are talking about it. The country, Catalonia, we could divide it into two areas, into two different areas. For a band, most of Catalonia – 89_percent of the territory and 32_percent of the population – the quality of the area is either very good or good, and it only records specific incidents such as your own. Incidences that did not only affect the metropolitan area of Barcelona, but also affected other regions. In fact, in this punctual episode for the pulse coming from the Sahara the municipality that was most affected was Berga, precisely, that in normal, ordinary terms, has a good air quality. Parenthesis: Activating the protocol is a sign that things are good girls, that means that before concrete episodes are taken the steps to be taken and taken properly. You have focused your intervention on that part of Catalonia in which we are in a more complicated situation. It is the area formed by: Barcelona and thirty-nine municipalities of its surroundings– fixed's, the paradox: a 2_per_cent of the territory, but a 60_per_cent of the population. This area is where the European Union's shields are being exceeded by means of the two contaminants: nitrogen dioxide and PM10 suspension particles to which you refer. These municipalities – as you explained – are a special protection area for the atmospheric environment and are, precisely, the object of this plan of better quality of the area. Therefore, I also want to value your positive reflection in relation to this update of this better plan with this 2020 horizon. How are we managing it? Through the Table of Quality of the Air of the Conurbation of Barcelona. This is a question that needs a very high level of political and social agreement, and from this perspective what I want to advance is that since the government we want to establish a national pact for air quality. This is a question of much, much relevance. It is important to count on the complicity of the citizenry; that the citizenry knows exactly that we are talking about a question that has a concrete impact on the salvation and life of the people. This is a basic and fundamental element; many of the measures that we are taking, that we will have to continue to take, respond, precisely, to these criteria. If there is any environment in which the Environment and Health are intimately linked, it is precisely this. Therefore, I also thank you for taking the opportunity to make decisions, that sometimes they will not be comfortable either for the government or for the citizenry in the short term, but that they can have an extraordinarily positive impact in the medium term. This is the idea that we want to move, some changes in habits that we will have to push, they will be fully compensated for the benefits that they will generate at the company's joint venture. We want to incorporate elements that give us more scope for action. Therefore, I would also like to take advantage of this inquiry to explain to you that by developing the laws that already exist, we will articulate a mechanism to finance measures intended for the best of the atmosphere. We will do so around the decree regulating the Fund for the protection of the atmospheric environment, which will allow us to recapturing around 2_million euros from those activities that have a higher level of emissions. While there is still much work to be done, the industry is doing its dues and reducing its emissions. The port, which is one of the other significant focus, is also advancing, but the problem – and you placed it very well – we have in the mobility; this is the great challenge we have to face. And like the department and the government we won't spare resources in measuring our possibilities to improve public transportation. This is the key. You explained it, and I did. Purpose: to reduce the number of private cars so that there is a good public transport system and those that circulate that are cleaner cars. This series, let's say, the basic scheme in the field of mobility. And that's why we need our public transport to be much more competitive, and that's why we're talking about climate change the other day, and now we're talking about air pollution, in this concrete area of nitrogen dioxides and PM10 particles; line 9 of the subway – perhaps one of the most powerful measures we can take against air pollution–; the express buses, which are starting to have a very important return; the T-Mobility, which will be the second major revolution without immediate need to expand the public transport network, but we are convinced that it will allow us to incorporate users; the extension of the General Railways to Sabadell and Terrassa, and the bicycle rail network. But here we have a problem, an emptiness that you know perfectly well and that we've talked about, that's the roll system. We have to make it much more competitive. We need to transform the Barcelona rolling stock system into the authentic metro of the metropolitan area, a_second metro system. This is a battle that is absolutely fundamental; therefore, the public transport battle. That's why we've undercut this priority in a very strong way. Beyond that, the government also does other things. It also promotes transition to the electric vehicle and other types of alternative fuels. For example, in the whole of toll management, a very powerful measure is to remove tolls for electric vehicles, tolls of competence of the Generality; we would like the State to also join this same layout. Those who have electric vehicles have the tolls of Catalonia absolutely free of charge. The different administrations are also pushing re-routing points; at this time, Catalonia is very much above the mid-state and is at a very advanced level in the European re-routing and fast re-routing points. And you incorporated another theme, and this one we have to work on and we have to work very rigorously. The metropolitan area came out, let's say, without having previously agreed to it, without having previously mentioned it, but laid down the limitation of the movement of the most polluting vehicles. This is a plan that we need to value in terms of money, but it has to be done well, and it has to be done together, and it has to be done in a concerted way, and we will work in this area. It is true that there are certain areas that are particularly sensitive in which we need to take measures that are not only promoting public transport, but also that we need to take some measures to limit the access of the most polluting cars to the most sensitive areas, those areas that we have accredited, that we have a clear awareness that they are the most vulnerable from a point of view of atmospheric pollution. And here there must obviously be more coordination with the General Administration of the State. And the General Administration of the State, from this perspective, is taking a lot of time to find a suitable line of work. You didn't feel that we were making a very important effort in that double scheme, did you? , which we have left to form part of this consensus, reduced the private cars that are circulating and that those that are doing so are cleaner, but the Government of the State, we would have to be bosses that eliminate the perverse cents that go in line with this scheme that we are working from Catalonia. I, for another band, the one who was commenting on it, that was the best in the running of the roll system. The scheme of work is very simple, what it is about is to move forward in two different lines – and I end up at the conclusion level. The first one. about this plan of improvement, we want to identify, uniqueize a specific number of priority actions, evaluate them, manage them and implement them. And second, we have to do this from the concertation in different areas, in the interdepartmental framework within the government, with various departments, but also in complicity with local administration and complicity with the various sectors; from the Royal Automobile Club of Catalonia to the automobile companies in this country. We must be able to ensure that we agree on these policies which are absolutely strategic for quality, for the standard of living in our country. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.194.0	There's the word "Ms. Navy Bravo."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.195.0	Counselor, well, talk whenever I focus on a small surface, but a 2-per-cent, but, well, it seems to me, it has come to comment, but we are talking about 4 million inhabitants. It's not a small thing. Totally in agreement that it is essential to improve public transport, the network of proximity, but, finally... On Monday I saw that today there were a few days in which the lines of action were presented, precisely, of your department and I was looking forward to whether this inquiry was finally meaningless, but with what you have commented I still believe that we can present some proposals that can help. The plan is very focused on improving public transport but, of course, it is not so focused on avoiding..., that is, on improving pollution in areas where it is a problem, and that is mainly because of this lack of coordination that we were talking about. In the line he was commenting that the follow-up of the plan is more philosophical than anything else. I give you an example: « TP3 measure. modal shift to public transport due to the creation and promotion of park-and-ride car parks – the typical dissuasive car parks. Let's go to the compliance report: "Advanced. Advanced? Advanced of what? How many travellers have gone from private vehicles to public transport through the measures of this chapter that have taken place since the adoption of the plan? On page 143 of the plan, in chapter III, which also places «activities of the Generalitat of Catalonia when in many cases these acts are carried out by the municipalities, it is reported that in 2008 there were thirteen_ thousand parking spaces and that ten_ thousand more were planned. In the compliance report it says: "Progress in compliance. Where are those ten thousand squares? Those who are – I also tell you that it is not ten thousand – are they where they play? Are they easily accessible and prevent vehicles from entering the most polluted areas? Well, no. What happens is that we have a list of stations in which you can make improvements in the parking lots and only with having painted a little better the lines in one of them, we already assume that that parking is fine, but we have not increased practically a single square. That's not an advanced degree of fulfillment, we're deceiving ourselves. We really need parking spaces, dissuasive parking spaces, which fulfil their function, that allow vehicles not to reach the areas of more pollution, because the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona – as you said – already announces on your website that it prepares the creation of zones of low emissions and restriction of polluting vehicles. There will be much to discuss, because I see that there has not been much consensus either; I imagined... but I didn't know it, but you have already confirmed it to us. Do you think that the actions that we had included in the plan – and « we..., I am talking about the Government of the Generalitat – have any kind of coordination with this proposal made by the Metropolitan Area? Are they lined up? Do you think that was the vision of reducing pollution in the most congested areas? – although it is clear that these areas were not defined at the time. I already announced to him that no, including measures that were already planned for the improvement of mobility, those that were already planned, that were good and necessary, but no extra effort was made to ensure that pollution would be reduced specifically in the most affected areas. Because, for example, to prevent vehicles from entering the low-emission metropolitan area, in which it is defined, do we benefit from the car parks in Barberá or Tarrasa? These are some of the actions that are included in the TP3 measure. If ATM says that polluting vehicles should not enter contaminated areas, shouldn't we put these dissuasive parking lots outside of them in strategic locations that are easily accessible? Measures like this are those that we want to be able to empower, that can be carried out in these four years, and that were not initially envisaged in the plan. Because that plan was not intended to take these exceptional measures, and in any case we must prepare ourselves for them, and, if we can, prevent them from being carried out; that too ahead. We are very much committed to asking the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia to coordinate with the Government of Spain, which is essential to meet the needs of the citizens, but we see that even among the Catalan administrations we are not able to coordinate well, and this we have to improve, because it affects them, it affects the citizens. Tables have been created, he has already said well, the Taula de Qualitat del Aire de la Conurbación de Barcelona, a few months ago, to which we hope they will be able to transfer, therefore, what we approve here in the next Plenary; that of the Camp de Tarragona, which we already had, and which has a specific problem very different from that which we would also like to talk about. We do things, we don't say no, but we can't settle for believing that we are good, because we can do a few crosses in the measures of the plan that we have fulfilled, and, less so, when they are put precisely so that they can be fulfilled easily. We cannot settle for progress reports; we must be able to deliver results to the citizens. It is difficult, we know, and other cities in Spain and Europe have encountered difficulties, but there are also many other cities that have achieved great improvements...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.196.0	Madam Bravo, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.197.0	...in a short time. Okay. We have to bring all this back and we have to make it not a nuisance for the citizens, but a pleasure. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.198.0	Counselor Josep Rull responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.199.0	This concept – thank you, Madam President – the concept of pleasure has pleased us [[relays]] ; we liked it because it is a positive element of this perspective. See, various questions that would be worth re-subtracting. The plan is a living instrument and must be adapted to the extent that the various actions were carried out. There will be actions that may be obsolete already, and other actions that we will have to incorporate, so they are very valuable these tables, both the table that we have made around Barcelona, as the table around Tarragona, because it is the area in which we will be able to make this assessment, this follow-up, of a band, and, for another band, to go up-to-date, to adapt, to go, tell us, to update all the actions that are initially provided for in this plan. You've gone off some ground, but you've tried to make a critical assessment of a question that's a very tangential issue of the system's joint. And you happened, in this second turn, practically half, talking about the park-and-ride, talking, let's say, these disincentive parking lots. And that's fine. But, you know what, the problem? The problem is when, in this concrete area, for example, rolling – and I insist on this issue, which is uplifting – people don't use the train because there's not enough park-and-ride, just because the system isn't reliable – that's the problem and that's the background problem – because trains don't arrive at the hour, because trains don't give guarantees. That's the point. Now, last week we didn't, the other week, we started donating some very powerful data in relation to the minutes lost by citizens and people affected by a system that is unreliable, for a system that doesn't work, for a system that is unable to capture us users. That's the background problem. And, therefore, we are marking the Moon and you are fixed in the saying. And the important thing is that we have a system that, well operated, with the proper reversal, would allow us to capture much more users. The other day I had a find with a platform that acts around the R3 line. We have, at these times, the C-17 congested, around Parets, around Mollet. We'll have to act and we'll have to do specific jobs on this road to improve congestion, but the big mechanism, the big bet is that R3 is competitive. That's the basics. Therefore, there is a lot of the theme of the park-and-ride, it is very good, but we need to go where there is the grate, where there is the most important ability to act. And here, I insist, we must find complicity on the part of all actors, on the part of all agents. Other elements that it costs us to be able to put into practice. I've got the whole eco-label thing going on, which is fun, which is fun, which is fun. He said: "We copy the best models of other countries. Similar situation is happening in Paris, it is happening in Rome, it is happening in London, it is happening in Madrid, and we are coordinating with these cities, but they have mechanisms that are very powerful, that are the eco-labels, that will allow us to do this..., to be able to garbellar well who are the vehicles that we accept, at a certain time, that can enter sensitive areas, and to others, no. Because if we don't have all the instruments, we won't get out. That's the problem and that's the background problem. And here we have not seen, on the part of the General Administration of the State, a clear and unequivocal compromise. And we, too, in this matter, want to have all the decision-making capacity, all the control capacity. And it will be better, a sense of doubt that it will be better, because who has the register of the various vehicles we are not; the Government of Catalonia does not have this information, which has this information is the General Administration of the State. And this is an important basis that we need to be able to move forward. And on this coordination, at these moments we have taken care of the Metropolitan Area; after that announcement, we have met with the Metropolitan Area; we are working together, we are working with the most important assemblies of this round, and, obviously, at the Barcelona Air Quality Table, which I will chair, at the next session that you are doing, we will establish these steps, in that line of national agreement, because this is an important issue and it is a sensitive issue. And I end up with one last question, from a point of view of the calculations that we do: it cannot go unnoticed that everything that has been named "the fraud of the diesel has made those predictions that we have established and those results that we believe on the basis of certain schemes have been severely shaken, that is not less, because we have made predictions about some dates that we considered to be true – that they were certainly – and now it has been believed, in an important volume, that this has not been there. And that's no less than the time to reverse the situation. In any case – I finish, President – there is an important level of consensus that I would like to see united in this chamber; this is a question that is uplifting, important, transcendent, country. And, secondly, we will deploy all the measures that are essential, pleasing or not pleasing, in order to overcome this situation that is detrimental to a fundamental good, which is the quality of life and the salvation of the people of this country. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.200.0	The next item is the question to the Government on security policies presented by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government on security policies]] [[300-00024/11]] The word has Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.201.0	President... Counsellor, Members of Parliament, if you will allow me, first of all, I wanted to start this speech by remembering the agent of the Corps of the Mossos d'Esquadra Santos Santamaría, who tomorrow marks the 15th anniversary of his death in the attack of ETA in Santa Margarida de Roses. And we would like tomorrow to read an institutional statement in your memory with the support of all groups. Having said that, we must also reaffirm the commitment, respect and support of the People's Group to all the security forces, especially the Mossos d'Esquadra, which, after all, are always working to defend our freedom and are not always recognized as such. Mr Councillor, today we are conducting this inquiry, because, for the People's Group, security is one of the most important services that should be given by an administration to its citizens. In democracy, good service and good management of security guarantee social peace, guarantee the free exercise of our rights and freedoms, guarantee or must guarantee the good management of public space, and ultimately guarantee the safety and good coexistence of all those who live in the same society. And, also, today, unfortunately, we must be very alert to that great threat that exists throughout the world, which is jihadist terrorism. Mr Councillor, since the beginning of the mandate a few months ago, including your appearance in the Committee on the Interior, you have been using a kind, moderate tone, which I thank you for and which I believe should be the tone that we must use among all of you. But it is true that its tone and its forms hide a position that has not just convinced us. To this day, all we have been able to see are signs of weakness. It has begun its mandate in a particularly submissive manner before the CUP. Their needs to form government have shown them, in matters of security and prevention, as a weak and complex government. And, on these issues, showing so much weakness is not good, because, in the end, the great harm is society as a whole and the individual in particular. They begin the mandate by announcing that they will withdraw from the knowledge of how many judicial cases, supposedly seven, all of them due to major altercations caused by anti-system groups, alternative groups, in the best style of street terrorism, such as, for example, the major riots in Can Vies. We have asked you in writing what causes you are going to withdraw from, obtaining by answer the greatest of the silences. Do you know what the message is? Well, one, if you want to get something, you burn two containers, you break five windows, and there's nothing going on here, or maybe I can get something. And that's not the message we have to give. Look, Mr. Counsellor, these images..., is not the kale borroka of the Basque Country; this is Barcelona, this is Can Lives. ( The orator shows some pictures.) Do you see them well? Do you believe that we can withdraw from any cause where these facts occur? Look, even a mobile unit of TV3. Maybe that makes them more sensitive. Then you continue with the unnecessary creation of the commission of electric pistols; unnecessary because it is a measure that many countries of Western democracies use and, therefore, its use is more than proven. Knowing, moreover, that, in our case, in the case of the Mossos, it would only be used by intermediate commands and in cases of extreme necessity. What do you want to achieve with this commission, Mr. Counsellor? Discover the garlic soup? No, right? What's going on? That you come here, in the parliamentary seat, and make a gesture of eternal love to the UPC and form this commission so that these gentlemen do not get nervous; a commission that, in the end, for the only thing that will serve is to waste time, delay important decisions..., and a bad example and a bad consequence. I mean, every time we have to take a step to improve the Mossos d'Esquadra's day-to-day task, are we going to do a six-month commission? We're on our way, Mr. Counselor. When I have to buy bulletproof vests or bullets for shooting practice, or some measure I'll comment on later, are we going to set up a commission? Counselor, this image of weakness in the end that you strengthen is those who go against the system. And we're on. You have to be aware that there has to be a more proactive action of the Mosses. We cannot allow the law to be broken in front of the police and not to act. Images like those of the city of Barcelona with unauthorized concentrations in which illegal activities are carried out are a shame for this society. And, of course, I am talking to you about the "top manta", which affects not only the city of Barcelona, but much of the Catalan coast. Unlicensed concentrations, confrontation with different police forces, illegal sale of products that are also forgery or have not passed any kind of health control or quality... Only with these examples can we deduce here four faults or crimes: confrontation with public authority, private occupation of the public highway without authorization, economic crimes for illegal sale of counterfeit products or that have no health guarantee, and also those people who are on the street are surely exploited by networks, because we are talking about organized crime. For all these reasons, if the Urban Guard does not act because it does not feel politically supported by the municipal government, the Mossos d'Esquadra can act ex officio, which have not done so until today. Don't make them mere spectators of what's going on in our streets with the excuse that the mayor or the mayor on duty doesn't ask for help. You have an obligation to fulfill without any excuse. Even yesterday the merchants of Barcelona, who feel unprotected by the mayor and this government, went to the government delegation to ask for protection against this unprotectedness. They exercise the democratic authority of the security forces to strengthen the quality of life and safety of those who comply with the laws and pay their taxes every day. They guarantee their peace, their coexistence and their economic stability, and do not give barracks to those who, on the contrary, go against the laws, skip them and fail to fulfil their obligations – and I am not talking about the government, in this case. You will have to review the Catalonia Security Plan, and we hope that it will be done with responsibility for service to people and territory, and not as a placebo against the anti-systems. We will have to talk about important issues such as the Equipment Plan, or another much more important issue: the police modelWhat police model do we want for Catalonia? Ratios that we don't fulfill; regions that barely have a patrol or two that do patrol at night. Obviously, that is insufficient, Mr. Counsellor. Coordination with the rest of the local police and security forces will also need to be discussed. It will be necessary to talk about the agreements that are held with different municipalities, especially that of Barcelona. An agreement that would have to be revised and that, although the role holds all that, the coordination between the Urban Guard and Mossos d'Esquadra has not been exemplary, especially because of the continuous public discussions between the respective political leaders in turn. With joint patrols that were more an aesthetic than an effective measure, or a coordination room in which instead of sharing tables per district, each body had its own separate. And, obviously, when this agreement is renewed, it will be necessary to involve other security forces that continue to act in the city, such as the National Police, the Civil Guard and the Port Police. I can admit to you, Mr. Counsellor, that there is some issue, no: a subject of special need and urgency to deal with, and that we must deal with it with serenity and prudence, and it is the danger we have in Western democracies of jihadist terrorism. A global and present danger. And if you ask us for cooperation and prudence, from the People's Group you will have it. But the same respect we ask of you, your Government and your party towards the Government of the nation, because if not, it would be unfair, and it is not worth making excuses to have a meeting with the Minister of the Interior to work, because mechanisms to work and coordinate are there. And you can do things: give the Mosses the necessary training, which doesn't mean two-hour talks. Give them the necessary training. The means necessary to fulfill your duty. And, of course, not to set up a six-month committee, but to put on the table the debate of being able to carry out security patrols with long guns; something that is already being done in France, by the local police, and that, of course, you know that the Mossos d'Esquadra are requesting it and that is necessary. To conclude, Mr. Counsellor, do not show any more weakness in matters of prevention and security, show that your priority is to ensure the good coexistence of people in public space, give security to people who comply with the rules that this Government is on their side and that it will not slow down every time someone threatens to break a pact or lose a vote. Counselor, I ask you to act as an Interior Counselor and not as a relaxing or valerian government advisor with the CUP. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.202.0	Reply to the Councillor of Interior, Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.203.0	Many honourable President; honourable Member Villagrasa, I agree with this question because it allows the Councillor of Interior and allows the Government of Catalonia to clarify some aspects that you, therefore, have directed, I believe that in the form of direct criticism of the Councillor, in aspects that this Councillor has never said. And, therefore, it is good that in his parliamentary office, that it is ultimately where it is reflected what are the positions of a government, it is good and it is good that you ask me about things I have not said. You said that I had said that we had withdrawn from knowing how many court cases, that it is true that a newspaper published it, and it is true that the same day, since the Department of the Interior, it was precisely what it was talking about. And you see with photos, which can cause a great demagogic impact, say: « Miri, Can Lives... Yes, Can Lives, we have already clearly said that we will not withdraw from Can Lives. How do you want us to get out of Can Lives if we've got agents from the Squad Mosso Cos? We will never withdraw from a case where there are agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra injured or public good of the Generality who have come out, also, with a heaviness, of a public act of order, and which, in the end, therefore, there are benefits of the Generality that have been affected. That's what we're gonna do, that's what we've done. And, therefore, do not tell us that we are withdrawing from some cases from which we are not withdrawing. Do not tell me either – and I see here Members and Members of the CUP Group – who are marking my agenda, because it is not true. It does not mark me the CUP, nor does it mark me the Popular Group, it marks me the need to preserve the security of the citizens of Catalonia. That's what sets me the agenda. And that's the Department of the Interior's priority. And obviously, we want to work together on everything that goes on the line of defending security, preventing crime, helping citizens, bringing welfare to society, because providing security is providing welfare. Therefore, this line is indeed a line that I defend and will defend as the Councillor of the Interior. And, therefore, we will neither withdraw nor withdraw from those assumptions where there have been misled and, moreover, what we will do is follow what marks us – and I said this in the answer to various oral questions – the same case law of the Supreme Court in these cases, which is that when the Ministry of the Prosecutor is already acting, we do not act as a popular accusation, goes beyond what marks Article 125 of the Constitution, and that is what we will respect; but we withdraw, and you have set the example of Can Lives, which is very quiet, that Can Lives will not withdraw from us. And, therefore, it is an aspect that I wanted, therefore, to put into evidence. His interrogation began, and I thank him, recalling a death squad move, murdered, by a terrorist gang, by ETA's gang, Mr. Santos Santamaría. He died in Roses, fifteen years ago – tomorrow will be fifteen years. Tribute to him and to so many members of the security forces and bodies, following the Squadron Mosses, following local police, following the security forces and bodies of the State, to all of them our record, our tribute. I also want to announce that in the next few weeks we will inaugurate a monolith in record of the dead squadron moves, in testimony to people, and the example of Santos Santamaría, that tomorrow will do these fifteen years, so, also allows me to put it totally in value. You said that if we had..., I didn't just hear the argument you gave me with the 'top blanket', because the 'top blanket' doesn't allow permissiveness. And that's what I said, and I said it in August, which I compared, on my own motion, to the Parliament of Catalonia after the events of Salou. And, therefore, he also puts in the mouth of this counselor, or the Department of the Interior, aspects that we have not said. The top blanket harms society, because it harms intellectual property, copyrights; industrial property, with so many forgery of products before companies that have paid their rights, which are vulnerable on the part of the top blanket. And the top blanket, obviously – obviously – causes a serious damage to the small trade, to trade in general, to the fabric of our cities' produce, to lower the blind every day, to pay their taxes, to come legal, not falsified products, and to see in the top a totally persecutable activity. So I don't admit to saying we're not chasing the top blanket, because it's not true. The pursuit with very important results – there is the director general of the police, who accompanies us in this debate –: we are descending in the name of parties of the « top manta; there are cities in which the descent, for a good collaboration between the local police and the Mossos d'Esquadra, has been spectacular. Today's newspapers contain the example of the Vendrell; there could not be many other places in which he went down. He has also gone down to the city of Barcelona, but it is also true that – he has also gone down to the city of Barcelona – the facts show us, beyond what we can see, the criminal facts we have in statistics, but beyond the data... Mr. Villagrasa, although we arrive at the conclusion that he has succeeded, I want to set the example of Barcelona, because it is very direct and we have it very close. We are various security forces and bodies and the theme of "top blanket is polyhedral; it is not unidirectional, it is polyhedral. And on the subject of "top manta every police body we have a range of skills that we need to complete and that we want to complete. And, obviously, here is the CNP, which has foreign skills, to age because people, therefore, have their regular situation; the Civil Guard, which has a very important competence at ports and airports, to register, for example, content, to do a task that is done; the Urban Guard – in the case of Barcelona – which has the most direct competence for the administrative sanction before those who occupy the public space without law or who are doing illegal activities in public space, here is also a direct competence of the Urban Guard, and, obviously, the Mossos d'Esquadra Cos, which is with the investigation of crime, with both the services that matter to this person, and, obviously, with the latter, with the group that is in charge of the group. And, therefore, we must act. And we also have to act in these cases in which it is the last grace – many times the weakest, Mr. Villagrasa – but we also have to act. But you will also understand that action, when it is done in this last grace... – and the invitation that I speak with many local police, who have done their job well–, this later grace requires, when there is a local police own, full coordination with this local police own, to do joint actions, to do intensive patrols that come to give a more effective response because this vague phenomenon disappears from what is our social fabric, which is our fabric of coexistence in our cities, and that, unfortunately, when this phenomenon happens, it is something that fails – when this phenomenon happens it is something that something fails. So, let's go to the beginning, which is what we do from the Squad moss cos with good results and indexes that, I repeat, are coming down. But let us not deceive ourselves, we need the collaboration of everyone, of all the forces and things of security that we have competition in this area. I say this now: whenever we are asked for joint patrols, there we are; whenever we are asked for concrete actions in certain points, there we are. You can ask the president of the Harbour Authority of this city of Barcelona. When required, we acted together to give an effective response before a phenomenon such as the top blanket, which was very directly affecting an area adjacent to the same port facility. And there, too, because there's another police thing; here's the Port Police, too. That also, therefore, was made a joint arrangement. And also with the Civil Guard, which has competitions inside the ports. And, I repeat, this collaboration, when it is done and is intended to be done with all the administrations posted online to give an adequate response is an action that gives its fruits. And I finish this first intervention simply remembering that, on the subject of the devices these, the TASER guns... Miri, I on the subject of the TASER guns only want to remind one thing to Mr Villagrasa: this Parliament of Catalonia does nothing but the one that the Council of Europe asks of it, that the United Nations ask, that the one that made the majority of the countries around us, that is that, before some devices that will be incorporated into what the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is, there is a parliamentary debate previewed. And you don't want this parliamentary debate planned? If you are against, Mr. Villagrassa, really, what the United Nations and the Council of Europe say, what do you say?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.204.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.205.0	... – I finish now, President – that before the acquisition of this type of weapons there is a profound debate on whether the power executed as the legislature of the country. You're part of the legislature, don't you want to have this debate? To give light to the doubts, to give certainly to those agents who will then use them, because there is also a parliamentary endorsement with the debate of all. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.206.0	I know it's hard, but time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.207.0	... – I'm done, President –, and we'll have occasion on the next turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.208.0	The word has Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.209.0	Mr Councillor, is the parliamentary debate on electric guns to last six months? You say that to you the CUP does not condition..., if it was in parliamentary instance that you decided to set up this commission. When, today, perfectly, these electric guns could already be distributed among the mossos d'esquadra. They could have them right now. But why don't they have them? Because you gave in to the CUP, in creating a commission of something that is already under discussion. And if you want to debate, you can debate in a committee on an ordinary basis, not be spending six months wasting your time. On the subject of the « top manta, do not tell me that in the city of Barcelona it is less, that in the city of Barcelona it is less « top manta, because it is an insult to the intelligence of any Barcelonan. I..., if you like, when this plenary is over, you come with me to Plaza Catalunya and we can see what I saw yesterday at 9:00 a.m.: it was a bazaar, practically to pass the subway you had to jump between the blankets. If for you this is going to be less..., I don't know, I'm in letters, but I can add up. And when I say that you can act with the « top blanket is because when there are clashes with the public authority or economic crimes – that there are – the Mossos d'Esquadra can act of their own accord, you don't have to wait for the Urban Guard or the Mayor of Barcelona – who won't do it – to ask you to act. Therefore, it is you, the one with the mandate, who has to give that permission for them to act on their own initiative. And it is desperate for a merchant, who cannot trust the Government of the Generalitat or its mayor and must seek protection from the Government Delegation, as it did yesterday afternoon. Then you did not talk about the security plan, which is something we are concerned about; we are concerned about the content and how it can be discussed. And I repeat to you again: I hope that the security plan, in the end, will not be treated as a placebo to calm your friends in the CUP. There are worrying data: since 2015, the city of Barcelona has a victimization that continues for 20_per_cent. In Catalonia..., in Baix Llobregat, Garraf and Penedés, the robberies by guns have increased by 30_per_cent. In Catalonia, home-force thefts have increased by 16_per_cent, sexual assaults have increased by 7_per_cent and the set of threats or coercions, by 7_per_cent. There's a public safety problem. We are therefore concerned about the content of the security plan, which really meets the needs of individuals and territories, and we want to know the spirit of that plan and to be part of that work. If you need more mossos d'ésquadra, listen, we are willing to support you in whatever you need. If you need some parliamentary mandate for the Mossos d'ésquadra to act on the street against the « top blanket, we really are happy to support you. But please respect – respect – and support the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. The TASER commission, for them, and when you talk to the unions tell you, it's an intellectual insult to their work. And just as I also hope that the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps will be supported, every time social media attacks them and misses their good name, because currently those who are making the complaints and the legal defense are the unions themselves, it is not the government, it is not the councillor. And the mossos d'esquadra, in that sense, feel quite unprotected. I, Mr Councillor, will come to an end, but I do ask you in some way that the security plan does not take too long – it does not take too long – in your planning and in your review, that we can have a debate, this yes – this yes – long and arranged for it to be a good plan, that it does not need to be annual – I believe that a security plan can be multi-annual, even three-yearly, for it to be effective – and that it meets the needs of Catalans. I repeat: we ask you to be the Councillor of the Interior, and not to be the calmer of the Government with those who do not believe in the system or with those of the CUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.210.0	There's the word "Interior Counselor."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.211.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, some concrete data... you gave me the data of the "top blanket, I bring you the data of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. The cosos dels Mossos d'Esquadra tells us how, in the city of Barcelona, 70_percent of pieces of « top manta de tot Catalunya – 70_per_cent– are located; but, despite this considerable volume of concentration in the city of Barcelona, these pieces, also in Barcelona, have decreased by 8,5_per_cent this past year 2015. Therefore, I give him the data that are contrasting and, I repeat, the Director of Police will also be able to really believe them. Tell me the topic of housewives, that I highlighted myself when presenting the criminal balance and that we are very concerned, and that we are acting and very much. And they do it very well, with a lot of rigour and professionalism, the Squadron Mosses, which today – today itself – have just done an operation to the city of Barcelona and to the Hospitallet de Llobregat, and have just dismantled a criminal group of eleven people who were dedicated to housewives and who later came to certain establishments – that I do not want to say the mark of the establishment, because I don't want to now, neither, stigmatize – but that they came later, because people were going there to buy the things that had been stolen. And today, today, it has disarticulated itself; we are totally above it, and this good pocket of the Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron S. But I also want to put it in value..., because you gave some data..., effectively, so, some data, like the robbers with strength at home, but I have to tell you that in the last four years we have downloaded a 9_per_cent crime in Catalonia, that in the last year we have downloaded, also, crime clearly in Catalonia, and that, by luck, Catalonia has the lowest homicide rate in Europe, only in Guanya Luxemburg. Therefore, an index of homicides per 100_000 inhabitants we have located at 0.57, almost half of what is of reference to the European Union. So there's a good level of security. Allow me to tell you that Mr. Hoffman himself, on behalf of the GSMA, sends a letter to this interior adviser congratulating him for the high degree of security he is perceived and for the security device he considers to be "of the world's first division," he says, who have applied the Squadre Mossos, also working with other forces and security objects, to ensure an aspect that was of great concern to him, and that everyone recognizes that he has made a good task. Therefore, I admit the points that between all – and the actions of today itself show that we are above –... but I also admit 'but, overall, we have the fate of living in a territory where the criminal indexes and the security indexes go in the right direction. I need all of us to be able to build a security debate that I've always been in this direction. He was talking about the fight against terrorism, and obviously we need to keep up with everyone and work with everyone. I myself had occasion... to send a letter to the Minister of the Interior asking for the meeting of the Security Board. Why? Because we need it. It's true that they're already in a functioning government, but I think there's nothing to stop us from meeting with the Security Board, because these aspects really matter, worry, take care of ourselves, and we'd like to have parliamentary consensus to pull it forward. Just as we would like to have parliamentary consent for this security plan that we are working on, which, as I said in your Parliament, we will approve and obviously debate. And I already invite you to make as many contributions as you think appropriate and necessary. Like your group, all the groups in the chamber, I invite you to make contributions that you consider to be relevant in this area of the security plan that we are already in the approval phase and that, therefore, we want to share, as it cannot otherwise be, with all the parliamentary groups. And I'm done: a newspaper as little suspicious as ABC published a few days ago this photo in the centre of Madrid [[the counselor shows a photograph to the chamber]] Where the people also had to make themselves at the middle of a very central street on the side of the Sun Gate for a phenomenon... There are no Mossos d'Esquadra there, there are forces and bones of security of the State and also the police, obviously, Municipal of Madrid. But what I want to say is that, unfortunately, this phenomenon, which has deep roots and which also obeys fears that they need a very global reflection of all, is a phenomenon that, unfortunately, we do not just pat here, but is more present, and is also outside Catalonia. And thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much too, honourable Member, for your inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-16-1201.212.0	They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
