ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Confidence question from the President of the Generality (continuation)]] [[204,000,0001/11]] Good morning. In accordance with the agreement of the Board of Spokespersons and established by Rule 146 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, the debate shall be conducted in accordance with the sequence which has been given to representatives of parliamentary groups. Each parliamentary group will have an initial half-hour time. The president can use the word as many times as he says, without time constraints. When the President responds individually to one of the Members who have spoken, he will have a similar reply. If you have answered the replies, which will also be timeless, the group will have five minutes. The vote on the question of confidence of the President of the Generality will be made public by appeal, in accordance with Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. I recall the delegation of vote which, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, made Mrs Esther Niubó, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in the spokesman of your group, Mrs Eva Granados. As set out in Rule 150.4 of the Rules, the announcement that the vote on the question of trust will not take place before two-quarters of this late. In the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas, president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.2.0	Thank you, Madam President. Authorities accompanying us, Members and Members, Councillors, Councillors, President, only a year ago from the last elections of 27 September, it seemed that it was yesterday but it was a year ago, and, after many months of talks, after these elections, you made an agreement to establish, a parliamentary agreement – I don't know very well how to say – with the leaders of the CUP, and more than that you gave many lessons of how to make an agreement, how to give it to one side... to an authentic community, while the rest of Spain, therefore, did not have this one. But only five months passed, five months after you made this agreement and gave so many lessons to be learned, because you planned to do something that had never been done to democracy in Catalonia, which is a question of trust. The truth is that yesterday, when we talk about exceptionalities... it's true that you have many exceptionalities as President. I mean, he didn't show up as a candidate, he was screened after a few months of negotiation; he's the president who's the longest he's tried to keep his confidence, and he's the president who's the fastest he's lost this confidence in this chamber, only five months later. Plus, yesterday, when you wanted to renew this parliamentary confidence, you just went to a group, the CUP's lords. And I think it's normal, because when a president of the Generality only has a project, which is to declare independence, and the more he wants to skip democratic legality and without respecting the courts, and the more he does it, that there is no alternative, it's normal that the only partners that triay, that keep, follow the leaders of the CUP, that are a legitimate force, obviously, but that is an anti-systemist, anti-capitalist, anti-European Union, anti-euro force. And we're not happy about this. I don't know if anyone likes that you have to make a question of confidence five months later and that you don't have any more alternatives, etc., but we don't like it. And not just from the personal point of view, which I already know I wish him the best, like everyone else, on the personal plane, but because that, objectively, is not good for Catalonia. This situation of instability, this situation of an affluent government that has to renew confidence every five months, this situation of a government that has no alternative but to declare independence and that has no partners more than the leaders of the CUP, is objectively not a good situation for Catalonia. But you are the only ones responsible for this situation. And I..., will allow me, however, as is said in the castle: "Who has seen Convergence and who now sees it? Convergence– Convergence–, which had governed Catalonia for decades; Convergence, which was that party that brought together a social majority from centrality and transversality; Convergence, which is now renouncing its program, renouncing its principles, betting on independence, when it had fought it politically and verbally... [[Widow's remorse.]] They're... I don't know if they're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.3.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.4.0	... nervous or... they have twenty-six minutes left to listen to me. I'm saying it because... [[Rialles.]] Go get some strength, huh? [[Greetings.]] And ruling Convergence with Esquerra and the CUP! Who has seen them, Mr. Puigdemont, and who now sees them? But yesterday you didn't say anything new; you didn't say anything new, you didn't say anything new. You've lost the Catalans three more months. Because the big question is, why didn't you raise the question of trust directly in June, if you haven't made any changes, if you haven't made any corrections in your approach? Why are you extending yourselves? Why are they prolonging the agony? The citizens know, not only those of Catalonia, but those of the rest of Spain, who will follow the debate, know that nothing has changed. Nothing has changed but, despite all this, what you continue to say remains as serious as what you said six, seven, and a year ago. Because a politician in the twenty-first century who's betting to jump over the laws and declare independence, that's serious enough to keep us, even if it's not new, surprised. And I tell you one thing: you can say whatever you want, you can do many questions of trust, you can prolong the agony whatever you want, but neither now nor ever you will have the authority neither political, nor legal, nor social to pull the Catalans out of Spain and the rest of Europe, and that is why you will not get it however much they prolong the agony and how much they repeat it many times. And luckily – luckily – we are not anywhere in the world, luckily we are not living in any century of history. Fortunately we are living in the European Union in the 21st century and there are democratic controls so that politicians like you do not think that they can do what they want and they can be above democratic laws, the courts and these things that affect the people of the street. As I was saying, you have not raised anything new. You did not come here to make self-criticism, to recognize that you had been wrong in some things, to say: "We with our powers have been wrong in this, in this, in this. You did not come here to make any proposal to negotiate with the Government of Spain to improve Spain, to reform the, to change the Constitution, to change the laws that are not good. He did absolutely – absolutely – nothing. You did not come here to say that with your votes in Congress, even if you are in the Joint Group, you will try to have a government in Spain to commit to make a reform sheet for Catalonia and for the citizens of Catalonia. You didn't say any of this, because this would have been a real novelty. No, the only thing you came to say to us again is that you return to the referendum! He's here again! You go back to the referendum! The same ones who said it was already a past screen return to the exit box. You said that it was already over, that it had already been over. And the truth is, I have multiple statements. From Mrs Forcadell: "On 27 September it was the final referendum. Mr Rull: "September 27 is the referendum that we were not allowed to hold. You yourself, too, in Parliament. Or statements by Mr Mas in October 2015, that this is particularly interesting, right? ; says: "If a referendum offer comes from the Government of Spain, it will be late. Because, look, we, the referendum, have already done it. That's October 2015. Just a year ago. And besides you not only ridiculed with these statements the people who continue to raise a referendum agreed with Spain, but you had said that already this, had already been done, and that it was also what justified them to spend the money of Catalans and to pass laws of disconnection. I mean, you didn't just say you did, but you also said you were already there and ridiculed the people who kept proposing it. There are very interesting statements from your advisors, aren't there? , which says in October 2015: "To distract attention, some have recovered impossible solutions, such as the agreed referendum. Or you yourself, just three months ago, in June 2016, said: "The option that the Spanish Government can convene or agree to a referendum is an option of these that do wander through the outer space for the times of time. So, the faster we go, the better. And this is not a simple change of heart. Because I believe that in politics we must have the capacity to correct and change our minds, provided that it is good for the citizens, and to be able to give in to a negotiation. But this isn't a change of heart, it's just that you didn't tell us yesterday that you were wrong to say that you had made a referendum and won it. You posed it as if we had no memory, as if we had amnesia of what you have said here; you did not recognize it at all. And besides, it's something that goes back to the beginning, it's something that goes back to the beginning. It's something that never comes, the referendum is what you get out of the drawer, you put it back in, you pull it out again, and it looks like endless history, right? I believe that more than a referendum could be called a 'neverendum', because it is really not going to be the solution of anything. [[Greetings.]] Not only did you say that you had done it and that you had won it. Not only have you ridiculed those people who continue to bet on the referendum. It's just that what you said yesterday, Mr. Puigdemont, about returning to the referendum, discredits everything you've been doing these months. That is, without recognizing that they did not make that referendum and did not win, what have you been doing all these months, spending the millions of Catalans' euros on state structures? But were we not left with a democratic mandate? We have all heard it a thousand times: "We have the democratic mandate of the ballot boxes to do what we are doing, we have to declare independence and we need state structures. We've already done the referendum. And now it turns out that you again recognize that no, that you had not; that you had not, and, of course, that you had not, obviously. It is a democratic mandate that mutates, like the agreements of the CUP, is mutating over time according to what you are interested in. And, truth be told, I think there have also been a lot of changes in this democratic mandate so immobile, that it was supposed to have left the polls, right? You said the referendum was on 9-N. Then they said they needed September 27, because it was the way to make a referendum through the elections. Then it was said that you had to make a referendum, but not on independence, but on the Catalan constitution. And besides, Mr Junqueras publicly acknowledged that, man, that was the best way, because they knew – this is textual – that many people who would vote no to independence would vote yes to a Catalan constitution that would increase rights, and so they already had the referendum done. No, no, without modesty; without modesty, they recognize it this way, quietly, don't they? And then Mr. Junqueras also said that maybe what they had to do was a referendum on disconnection laws; of that just a few days ago, right? , according to some prestigious media. But no, we go back, we go back to the exit box, we talk about the referendum again. Mr Puigdemont, this is a huge takeover for the people who trust you, for the people who want the independence of Catalonia, for the people who leave September 11 to ask for independence, this is a takeover. For the social majority of Catalans, of course, who would want you to be working on social problems and on another set of priorities; but for the people of good faith who want the independence of Catalonia, this is a take of hair. And it's a time we can't afford to lose anymore. Because you, it is curious, ask for a referendum; as you cannot do, you say you make one up; you say you win it, you behave for many months as if you had won it, spending millions of Catalans' euros; then, all of a sudden, you ask for a referendum again and you are already saying that if you don't give it to them, you do one again. But it's the hamster wheel! [[Greetings.]] As we have told you many times since the opposition, you are on a static bike, you are pedaling, but you do not move. And they consume effort, because they do not devote themselves to anything else. Energy, they burn; time, of course, they spend, and energy, electricity, they also consume, because they are the resources of Catalans. But that's not moving forward – that's not moving forward – Mr. Puigdemont. That is, as Mr Mas said in the year two-thousand..., a few years ago, really: "We cannot take Catalonia to a project that generates collective frustration. And I absolutely agree with what Mr Mas said just a few years ago. Because we have also recently seen other projects to get the citizens out of Europe, we have just seen it with Brexit. Catalonia doesn't need another Brexit, Mr. Puigdemont. He's not our model. You speak of Brexit, you speak of Kosovo, as if they were examples to follow. For us, they are no example of anything. Why, are you going to recognise the Catalans that Catalonia's independence means leaving the European Union? Yes or no? Are you going to do as the English separatists, who spent months walking a bus saying that leaving the European Union they were going to have 350_million pounds more a week, and the next day – no, they don't expect a year, no, the next day – on television, they had to admit that it was a lie, that it was marketing, that it couldn't be guaranteed? Are you going to do the same as the English separatists? I don't think that's what the country needs, honestly. And besides, I think that you on that static bike live very well, because there are a lot of people living on the process in Catalonia for a very long time, but a lot, a lot. And I think it's good for you guys that this isn't... don't move, is it? But I'd ask them just one thing, and it's that they get off the static bike and walk down the street of reality in Catalonia. On the street, in which you do advance, walking, walking, cycling, as you wish. In Catalonia, 60_per_cent of pensioners do not arrive at the end of the month, they have problems reaching the end of the month – 60_per_cent of pensioners. And you're saying that you have to open embassies in..., I don't know where Mr. Romeva has opened now, that he won't receive anyone, but no need, no matter what, we have a new embassy there. There are four years waiting list so that in some areas of Catalonia Catalans can put their parents in a public residence. Four years. And you're here with your priority. When they go to Madrid they don't ask for improvements in this sense, no. They're asking for a referendum. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, no, no. And now I'm gonna explain to him why, too. Now, that does – that does –, in Catalonia is where there are the highest charges and where they charge the most. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Some applause.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.5.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.6.0	And it's not just where there are the highest charges and where they charge the most, but they've increased the high charges since you're in government – since you're in government – because, of course, the process needs many high charges and very well paid, to keep..., to stay on this static bike. Where the public media are more expensive than any other autonomous community in Spain. That's right. But we are second in line in health spending as a percentage of GDP. These are the priorities of the Government of the Generalitat, which says that it cannot better address social needs. And we are the most indebted autonomous community. Catalans are Spain's most indebted Spanish citizens. And is that also the fault of the Government of Spain? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, yes? For Mr. Mas did not say that when he led the opposition, when he told the tripartite that they stretched out the arm more than the sleeve. He did not say: "You are in debt to the Generalitat, but the truth is that you cannot do anything else, because since it is the fault of the Government of Spain... I, that, never heard Mr.Mas say it in these armchairs, in these seats. No, no, he blamed the Government of the Generalitat and said they were mismanagement, because it was true. Now you have broken the record and more than doubled the Generalitat's debt. And this is the reality of Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont. The reality of Catalonia, whether you like it or not, is this. You can't even pay the pharmacies and you're talking about creating a new state. If they cannot maintain the services of an autonomous community, how will they create a new independent state? If they don't have money, if the Generalitat is unfortunately broken. And that happens to you, and it doesn't happen to other autonomous communities that have the same funding system that we have, that have even more of the fiscal deficit that you always say we have. That is a reality of the Generalitat's mismanagement, which you want to cover everything with the « stellate, but which is there, that one day, when you get off that static bike, which is not going to be eternal, you will have to look at it, and you will have to face reality. But if they get off that bike they'll see one thing too, and it's that the political majorities across Spain have changed. There is no longer an absolute majority of the People's Party. There is no longer an absolute majority of any old party. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, there aren't anymore. And you want the Catalans to let go of an opportunity, a historic opportunity to have a new government in Spain that does not continue to apply the same policies as ever. But, of course, for you there is no alternative, there is no alternative but independence. And I say to you, Mr Puigdemont: you say that there is no alternative. When time passes, when we arrive next year, and when you see that independence is not going to declare it, and that we are going to follow the same, you will not be able to lead any alternative, because you have denied that there are alternatives. You have denied that there is another way out for Catalonia to continue in this conflict and declare independence and leave Spain and the European Union. You have denied that there are alternatives, so you will not be able to lead any, when time passes and reality is seen. I believe that we must take advantage of the political change that has taken place in Spain, and we want to take advantage of that. And it is true that in these last few hours, the truth is that the situation of the old parties, some in particular, thinking more about their chairs than about having a new government in Spain, the truth is that it is shameful, honestly. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.7.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.8.0	They have at least twelve_minutes left to keep listening to me; hold on, hold on that they will really be able to bear it. [[Greetings.]] I know it's easier for you when the Socialist Party comes out, when the CUP comes out, when Catalonia comes out Yes, it's Pot, or even the PP, that you can tell him about corruption and cuts and Rajoy. I know the most uncomfortable speech is ours. [[remorse of the voice]] But I simply ask you to listen; to listen, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.9.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.10.0	In Spain you must take advantage of the change of majorities, but you do not want to take advantage of the change of majorities, because you have no intention of reforming Spain, because what would you do, in a reformed Spain? Where would his speech remain, in a Spain that worked well? I wouldn't have any kind of tour. And that is why we, in the Congress of Deputies, with thirty-two Members, while you are in the Joint Group, call for reforms from the Government of Spain. And we have been able to do so with the Socialist Party and the People's Party. And do you know what we have demanded of these old parties, if they want the support of Citizens? Many things that are historical claims of the Catalans, many things that you have refused to ask already, because you have said that already that, already, is a past screen; that of the referendum, no; but that of asking for a new funding system, seems impossible, doesn't it? For we have granted an investment agreement in return, not a referendum, as you do, no, no, in exchange for improvements for the Catalans. And a new funding system, for example, that gives more resources for health and education; basic infrastructure, which is a shame that is not made, like the Mediterranean Corridor, because we do want to connect Catalonia better with the rest of Spain and with the rest of Europe, not like you, who want to disconnect it. Do you know what we have asked for? Improvements for the self-employed. Catalonia is the autonomous community with the most autonomous in Spain; and if the autonomous pay less, they have more social protection and suffer less bureaucracy, that is also good for the autonomous Catalans. But you are not going there to defend the self-employed, you are going to defend the referendum. Do you know other things that we have also achieved? That the model of work of Spain be changed, which is a real failure in you have participated, because you have always voted in favour. So that there are decent contracts, so that equal work and equal conditions can be equal rights. And that is in agreement, not because the PP wants to incorporate it – because he continues to defend his labor reform –, not only because the Socialist Party wants to do it – because he defends his own, returns to Zapatero – but because they have been forced to do it. Do you know anything else that we have also incorporated into these agreements, Mr Puigdemont, that you have not gone to Madrid to ask for? : that women have more weeks of maternity leave, which is a real shame, that we are in the queue of Europe, that there are many women..., that yesterday there was news that 40_per_cent of women who become pregnant are afraid of losing their jobs. We have asked, and there has been a commitment – they have had no other – from the PP and the Socialist Party to increase the number of maternity weeks and equalize the leave with that of paternity. You, this, have not asked. Do you know anything else we have asked for, for example? Eliminate strangulations; but, of course, how are you going to want to eliminate strangulations, if here you have voted against eliminating those, if you have strangulations; you have had them many times. We have also called for a reversal of the tax amnesty, that shameful amnesty, which means that fraudsters do not pay and that middle families are taxed. But, of course, how are you going to want a People's Party tax amnesty that you voted for? You have voted in favour of the tax amnesty in the Congress of Deputies, without need, moreover, because the People's Party had an absolute majority. Or, for example, we have asked for support for families who do not reach the end of the month, salary supplement, as they have in the UK or Sweden. But you didn't go there to ask for any of this. You have not said that your votes in Congress serve for the new Government of Spain to commit itself to doing all this – no, no – because you already live very well in the blockade. You don't want a new government in Spain, because if Spain goes better, you go worse. And we believe that changes cannot be blocked. And more I say to you: you talk about that there are no alternatives, but I believe that there are alternatives in the whole of Spain, as we have told you, and also in Catalonia; because I do not know if any other opposition group is going to buy you the speech, but we do not. The fault of everything that happens in Catalonia is not the Government of Spain. He has made many mistakes, they have been very, very wrong, and we are the first to criticize the first to demand changes in governance agreements. But the fault of everything that happens in Catalonia is not the Government of Spain. You too will have to do some self-criticism. In addition, we are so convinced that in the Parliament of Catalonia and in the Government of the Generalitat things can be done in another way, that we are the parliamentary group that we have put forward the most proposals in the Parliament: eleven proposals of law – eleven – more than twice, in six months of virtually parliamentary term, nine counting the summer and the issues of trust, etc.; more than twice as many as the supposed leaders of the opposition of the Republican Left of Catalonia presented during the past parliamentary term. I know that as a leader of the opposition, they had it rather as a position and not as a reality. But we have put forward proposals to talk, for example, about textbooks. Mr Puigdemont, why do Catalan children have to be children who cannot have free books in schools, as they do in other autonomous communities? Why do Catalan children, according to which school they are educated, public, in Catalonia have free books or do not have them? Because in Catalonia there are schools that have free books but it is not because the Generalitat has facilitated it, but because parents have organized themselves to make a public bank of books because they know it is a good alternative, because they know it is. Why, depending on which public school Catalans study, can they have free books or not, Mr Puigdemont? We have introduced a law, a proposal for a law, to improve waiting lists in health care, waiting lists to access a public residence. We are talking not only about increasing resources, but also about how those resources are used. Why can't we work to reduce waiting lists, Mr. Puigdemont? We have also introduced a law – I am not going to say it all, because there would be many – to encourage birth and to help Catalan families have children. Who will pay the pensions if we do not help families to have more children? You don't want to talk about this. Even... laws that don't even cost one, they don't cost a single euro. For example, improve protocols to prevent child abuse in schools. Or, for example, have a debate on the rationalization of duties in schools as many parents ask and as many teachers assure that it would be better for equal opportunities. But do you know what you have done, from Parliament and from the Government, to all these proposals for citizens' laws? To present an amendment in its entirety so that it cannot even be discussed in Parliament. You don't want to debate anything other than independence. And I say to you, Mr Puigdemont, when we in Parliament want children to have free books, we are thinking of the children of families who left the demonstration on 11 September and those who did not. When we talk about waiting lists, we are talking as much about the people who came out to the demonstration and want independence, as the one who stayed at home knowing that we are better inside Spain and Europe. When we in Madrid, while you are calling for a referendum, we are calling for improvements for the autonomous and more weeks of maternity and paternity, we are thinking of those who vote for you and those who vote for us. And I think that's what a president of the Generalitat should do. Because it is clear that today, surely, you will come forward with this question of trust; surely, your partners, your only partners, the only ones you can address, the only ones you, yesterday, in fact, addressed, will probably give your support. But when that question of trust is won here, Mr Puigdemont, when the votes, in seats, of Junts for Yes and the CUP add up more than those of the opposition, they have to remember that, in the opposition, we represent more Catalans than you represent between Junts for Yes and the CUP. And what we want is to rejoin the Catalans – to rejoin the Catalans – because we are convinced that talking about eliminating strenghts – those that you like so much – to remove the tax amnesty – that you voted in favour – to improve labour reform – that you voted with a great deal of impetus, there in Congress – when we talk about all that, we are talking about all the Catalans, Mr Puigdemont, of all, have the flag that you have in your house, have the flag that you have in your heart; of all the Catalans. And I'm going to tell you one thing: you're not just thinking about the independenceists, you're not thinking about any. Because the people of good faith who want independence, when they see you get off the static bike, will also frustrate your legitimate expectations. I think we're still wasting time, Mr. Puigdemont, but I'm convinced that, in the end, we'll have a government in Catalonia. We will have a government in Catalonia that will think again of all Catalans, we will have a government in Catalonia clean, that will not try to cover with the « stellate that the government party has fifteen seats seized by political corruption – fifteen –; not one, neither two, nor three, no, but fifteen. I am convinced that we will have a government in Catalonia with a viable, sensible and inclusive project. And you know that we have never asked you impossible, you know that we are aware that the accounts have to be squared and that governments, especially in times of crisis, cannot reach everything. You know that we, in that, are conscious. But what we cannot support is a project that is not good for Catalans, that brings us out of Spain and Europe, and that you know above all that is not going to happen. We are going to have a government in Catalonia, no doubt; a government that is dedicated to building bridges and not breaking them, which is what you do. We are going to have a new government, no doubt, that I believe it will be decisive before the Government of Spain. A new government that has the capacity to get things in Madrid, a new government in Catalonia that fights for the Catalans here and there, and does not ask for a referendum – no, no – calls for improvements for the autonomous, for the families, for the women, for the people who are in a situation of dependence, etc.. I'm sure we'll have it again. I am convinced that we will have a government of the Generalitat that is up to the level of the land on which we live. And I'm telling you, I've been lucky enough to see Catalonia from the outside and from the inside. I, when I was a little girl, saw Catalonia from outside, from Andalusia, and I guarantee it was true admiration what we felt in the rest of Spain – admiration. And now I see her from the inside, as Catalan, and I want to get back that admiration that Catalonia has always had and that even the rulers of Catalonia have always had again. Now, when you look at Catalonia, you don't look with admiration; you look with concern; even your partners in the Basque Country, like Urkullu, you just have to review the statements you have made in this campaign so that they won't join you. We believe that we will once again have a government that has the confidence of the majority of Catalans and not just the majority of seats. We will certainly have it, Mr Puigdemont. The question is: how long, how much money and how many opportunities are you going to make us lose along the way? Thank you very much. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.11.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.12.0	Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and vice president, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you for your address. I know that there are many things between us – a lot of things – but, given the transcendence of what we are dealing with here today, I would like to thank you for the tone in which you have expressed deep disagreements, some that I will try to beat them down and, finally, discredit them, but also with the same good that you have addressed, that I think it is a good start to face the setbacks that you have in front of this country. You tell me that, five months after I acquired the condition of president, I submitted myself to a question..., announced the submissiveness to a question of trust and that we had lost the stability, and that this was a project, come to say, that it did not hold up. And, besides, it was a retreat that we had made... that we had given some lessons, in this sense, to the Spanish State. I am sorry to confirm it, and I am also sorry that the times confirm it: eight months or almost nine months after Spain there is the same government as there were. In recasts, in fact, because it's the second time it's working. Therefore, believe that, with all of them, let us say, problems that may exist in Catalan politics, there is a distance, in this case, from the situation of Spanish politics, in that it is not only that there has not been a government in a parliament, but that there is a lack of the most absolute and fundamental democratic control of this Parliament in the government. Can you tell me how many times the Spanish government, in these new months, will be under a control session? Zero. Therefore, this marks a completely different understanding between one situation and the other. And yes, I think we can give some lesson in this sense: the lesson that people very far away, very confronted, even with completely opposed social models, we are able to reach agreements for the country. People who have a much greater ideological distance than that which separates, for example, the Socialist Party from the People's Party, and who, at this time, are unable to reach an agreement, let us say, for the sake of the Spanish State. That's a lesson. And, believe me, I don't feel proud that I can be president of a country that is able to reach consensus, that is able to come up with all the difficulties and disagreements in agreements, because I don't lose sight of something that I think you have lost sight of at some point in your intervention, when you were talking about democratic controls – I don't know if I'm saying it as a threat or what – they say there are democratic controls planned for situations I've been exposing to. The best democratic control is the citizens – I'm not referring to your parliamentary group, am I? , not to his political party – the citizens and citizens of Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Also. You're a part of it, and so are you, too, huh? But the best democratic control, the proof of the democratic quota, where governments can control them well and which can legitimize them to rule or remove them legitimately, the best democratic control – and there has been no other system that has overcome it – if citizens, their vote. I would ask you..., or I would ask you if you agree that this is the best democratic control, if you agree with this, because, if you agree with this, we will have advanced some other grace, and perhaps.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He repeated several times that I have not made a proposal to the Spanish State. I think he's wrong. I did not make the proposal you wanted to listen to, but there is a difference: not all good proposals are what you want to listen to. There are other proposals. And I have made a proposal, not to Mr Rajoy – and I think I have said it explicitly – because indeed Mr Rajoy is well-placed in his ‘no; not only ‘no to the reference,' not to a follow-up of questions that I will explain to him and that they have to see with why his proposal of agreement for transformation is not possible with the People's Party, and less so if you think that this Catalonia can benefit from it. I have made a proposal to the Spanish political system in its conjunction, because it has made it possible, there is a real option, not just arithmetic, but there are political sectors in Spain that agree that it is possible to allow Catalans to vote. We said that before the elections, during the elections and after the elections. And, if you look at it, in the resolutions approved for this Parliament, the proposal for a reference granted is still valid; it has never expired – it has never expired. Another thing is that we think this proposal will be agreed with the government of Mr. Rajoy, or Mr. Rajoy with Mr. Rivera. That's another question. But this is a proposal in which there is scope – and today it proves more than ever – of possibility..., no one can deny it. Do you know why it's proven? Because there have been two elections, there is still no government, there is still no state project, and there can probably be third elections or a government that in this case will be a very frontist government, against the demands of most Catalans. I will not answer it, therefore, whether or not it is a prey of hair to the independenceists of good faith, they will judge it; but what I will answer is that to what we are announcing here, to what we are doing as to Government, of which yesterday I did a test and the week that we will tell you in more detail, is precisely to what these people voted. The worst shot is not to complete the electoral programs, the worst shot is to tell the citizen that a person is willing to lose credibility because things continue as always: to make Mr. Rajoy president. That's a hair plug, that's what it is, and those that mark a before and a after. Besides, you think about saying things that have been repeated so many times, there's no guarantee that they can't be denied or, let's face it, discredited for the truth. You say the British separatists, and you have used a very curious concept – the British separatists – that I assume that the reference must be declared illegal, because it does not seem to me that we are in the process of allowing the rest of Europeans to separate from Europe, which is the argument that you defend because one day Catalonia can vote... [[applause]] But the British separatists, apart from giving a subtly democratic lesson..., complementing a mandate held by British politicians, gave a democracy lesson when they allowed the Scots to vote. You say: "You should explain the truth and say that the independence of Catalonia automatically entails the exclusion of Catalonia from Europe. I won't answer it, Mr. Guy Verhofstadt will answer it, that they know him very well because he has portrayed himself many times on the side of Mr. Rivera. What does Mr Verhofstadt say? So, look..., who agrees with the Scottish president that an independent Scotland would be..., would be automatically a member of the European Union. I agree. I agree with what Mr Verhofstadt has said; for, moreover, you are right. Why, let's say, the logic, the real policy, the one that rightly recommends working for the interests of the citizens of Catalonia, Spain and Europe is what advises that Catalonia, like Scotland, continue to be members of the European Union; among other things, because Catalonia is a net contributor of the European Union, and among other things because it is there. And because its vocation is clearly Europeanist and because in the founding values of the European Union, and in all the political struggles that have taken place in Europe to reach the European Union, in all and every one of them, which has undoubtedly been Catalanism. Not everyone can say the same – not everyone can say the same – we were in World War I or World War II. In the conquests of Europe that eventually came to be united, in every and every one of them, in battles, not always peaceful, Catalanism has always sorted the right camp. And, therefore, we feel, at last, founding members of the values of the European Union. You're talking about pensions, you're talking about a follow-up, and I'm glad you said it, and I already got a document that got me here when we met you and me. I was glad to see that many of the proposals I made were directed, let's say, at a parliament and a government of an independent state. Because I believe 'there wouldn't be anything we'd like – and the Lower Councilwoman would be delighted – that we could increase the pensions of our citizens – believe me. And think that we wouldn't like it as much as we would be able to legislate on so many and so many things that you passed on to me on that list – that I've taken it very carefully – but that, in reality – and I think that this is enough known to everyone – belong to the powers of the State and that for this reason we claim independence: to be able to regulate and manage these powers for the benefit of the citizens. It's not true that we're following the most, let's just say... that the waiting lists for residences are four years late. What is true is the state's incompliments in financing. And I'll make it a list because, if you get to the government, which you're about to see, remember. And we'll remind them of the state's failings. Let 'em, for example, with regard to the question that concerned him about social services... [[Pause.]] Excuse me, I've had... [[Pause.]] Here. Look... I'll find it..., I'll answer it at the end, because there are so many papers here... But, anyway, I will tell you that what is the compliment of the State with regard to Catalonia – and that's what I wanted to convey right now – leaves much to be desired. And I hope that, in the possibility that they tend to inflate in the Spanish government, they'll remember. For example, do you agree or not that we are following..., or is it just that we are following the third autonomous community that generates the most resources and the penultimate in real resources discards? Do you agree or not that 8_percent of the fiscal deficit..., with the Catalan fiscal deficit since 2000..., since we have accounts, that, this, 2012..., 8_percent of the Catalan fiscal GDP that does not return to Catalonia? Do you or do you not agree with the third additional provision and the 3,710_million euros you owe us? Do you or do you not agree that the State invests only 10_percent of the total to Catalonia? Do you agree or not that the Roller Plate is not being completed? Do you agree or not that in the Dependency Law, which you have to see directly with social services, the State only finances 18_per_cent, instead of 50_per_cent? Do you or do you not agree that education has fallen from zero to three years from EUR 600_million? Do you agree or do you not agree that 150_million have not been passed into the fellowships? This is all state failures that directly affect the services that this government can provide to the citizen. If you care so much about the people you serve, if you care so much about independence that we talk about independence, take care of it, and we'll agree. Whatever happens that you don't seek the agreement – you don't seek the agreement – because if you wanted to make an agreement, if you wanted to be inherited – as you say – from the historical claims of Catalanism, you would have made a proposal with the People's Party or with the Socialist Party, for example, significantly different in language. For example, in the matter of all the incompliments that there is to be found in the Constitution for which it makes to the scholarships. For example, in all the incompliments there are in investment commitments to Catalonia. That doesn't look like it. For example, in the explicit compromise – which you could feel alive in the trip to Valencia – with the Mediterranean corridor, which shines for its absence. This would be done, let's say, inherited from the historical claims of Catalanism. You're a bunch of crackers, because you've done two... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, they are – they are. They have made two investment agreements and, as a result, zero – zero. You didn't make it. You say: "We have succeeded – we have succeeded – that the conditions of the women are better, the permission of motherhood... They have not succeeded in anything – they have not succeeded in anything. You– you–, talking about static bikes, you get virtual things, like the one hunting a Pokémon and you think you've got something real. [[Rialles.]] No, no, it's virtual – it's virtual. [[Greetings.]] You stop hunting Pokémon and are dedicated to reality – reality, reality – because when you prove it – when you prove it – you see that it is much more complex than you would like to recognize. For example, they have proven to the Basque Country and Galicia that the political situation has been perfectly eloquent about which is the credibility of their proposals and the bondage of their reform: exactly, zero Members– zero Members. Finally, you say you want to unite the Catalans. Miri, to begin with, I'm going back to insist, don't divide Catalans by language. There is no easier way to unite Catalans than to make it, from language, a political and confrontational issue between communities. You were born for this – you were born for this – and so until you recognize that with language we don't have to do politics, you won't be with moral authority to claim political unity from the rest of the people. He says we're proposing things that we can't do and that what we're supposed to do is take advantage of the change airs that he says we're snooping for Spain and that we're supposed to take advantage of the opportunity. Miri, I'll address you with a historical claim to Catalanism, huh? "Catalonia must be recognized as being born and involved in co-ciding Spain, at a time when the political change in Spain has opened a new stage, putting aside the scenario of confrontation and replacing it with a new one of political collaboration. That was said exactly one day as today, September 29, twelve years ago, President Maragall. Then there was also this political stage scene that would overcome the confrontation, in which Catalonia was proposed to co-exist, and also asked for historical Catalanism – because it is a demand of historical Catalanism – the recognition of Catalonia as a nation. This is the list of the historical claims of Catalanism. And you know what happened, twelve years later? That the people who..., good part of the people who defended this today, in this forum, such as today, September 29, 2004, said people, today, these people, twelve years later, finding that this appeal that you now call us back, let's say, to call us because fem, it was not possible, or not only possible, but that it was sounding doors, part of this people today asks that Catalonia be an independent state. That's what someone should think about. The synia, the static bike that you say, the stick and the cake to enjoy scenes for the reform of Spain, today, believe me, has expired. And I am not saying this with euphoria or with joy, I am saying this in recognition of what you have often called, that it is real Catalonia. It is certainly a finding that Mr Urkullu has also arrived at, that you like to mention only the headlines and the highlights of the press. Mr. Urkullu, do you know what you're saying to the whole interview? Because interviews are not just headlines and big letters: small letters are also part of the interview. He said: "Euskadi and Catalunya are national realities that demand recognition and a bilateral deal. That's what Mr. Urkullu says. Do you like this Mr. Urkullu? To me, yes. Do we claim him completely, Mr. Urkullu? Yeah. Moreover, Mr Urkullu knows, and this Parliament also debated it, that the Basque Country, which you do not agree with, has an economic and financial concert that allows it, at these times, that the citizens of the Basque Country have a much higher per capita expenditure than ours. Do you agree with the economic concert for Catalonia? Because I see they're very fascinated by Mr. Urkullu, fascinated. So, listen, I'm taking over your agenda, I'm taking over the economic concert proposal – even though it will also come late, because we voted for this Parliament with a very large majority – I'm also taking over your request for a bilateral relationship with the Spanish State, I'm taking over the demand for the recognition of Basque and Catalonia at birth, and we will agree. What happens is that you don't care. You are interested in the title holder, who always, in any case, as the characters are who they are, has to look for a standout for someone else, and the title holder who you are interested in is only a small part, because they should know better the history of the Basque Nationalist Party, more than a hundred and twenty years of history, and whose historical claim has been, which is a claim to which we have accompanied and accompanied from one side of Juntes per el Si. So, the week you see, the list of concrete questions that this government says it doesn't do because it's refusing to see the reality, we'll talk about it enough, but they think that when we, when I spoke yesterday about a project that calls it the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans, it's because the costs of Spain's dependence, that they're inventoried and that they're there, are costs that affect the butchaques of all Catalans, those that are independent and those that aren't. And that the efforts that this government has to make to meet its commitments, for example – another falsehood – to pay for the pharmaceuticals, because they charge for the pharmaceuticals, they cover and, in fact, they have never charged as well – they have never charged as well – as now... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Albiol, and as long as they cover.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.13.0	Please, respect. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.14.0	So much. If they want to give the data. You know, that, and if you don't know, they do a lot of bad parliamentary work, because the data is public. So, we'll talk about all this, we'll talk about how we can improve the citizen's service in this country and why we can't reduce waiting lists, as we'd like, without any assumption. All of this, I invite you to participate in this debate, because if you agree that this country has to resolve the issues affecting the citizens of Catalonia, we will easily agree. What I think will happen is that when we arrive confronted at the definite moment of knowing that each one votes before a concrete proposal to improve the waiting lists, to improve the Squadron's Mosses Cos, to improve the social services, to improve the finances of the assemblies, you, your vote, I know what will be: it will be contrary, as in other things. And sometimes, even with votes against, you, that criminalise both the fact that we can reach agreement with the UPC, you don't, you don't make any, you don't match your vote with the UPC when it's near here and when it's possible to get the government down. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.15.0	It has the word the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.16.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I believe that, of course, as long as we disagree, we can also maintain a cordial tone; I believe that we have always had it and I hope that we will always have it. I'm gonna go repeat or rebut some of the things you said. You speak of the political situation in Spain and criticise that there is no stability, criticise that there is no government, criticise that Mariano Rajoy's government has been practically a year without parliamentary control, and I can only say that I fully agree with you. We are so concerned that they do not want to be subject to parliamentary control while they are in office, because these functions are already eternal, that we have brought an appeal to the Constitutional Court to rule whether a Spanish government can actually spend a year in office without assuming parliamentary control. And, therefore, in that we agree and, therefore, we will not disagree. But the important thing is not – I tell you – to have government or not to have government, but what that government is working for. Because here we have a government of the Generalitat, but what are you working for? To jump the laws and get Catalans out of Spain and the European Union? That doesn't require a government. We believe that for that it is really not good to have a Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Besides, I already know you're in the mixed group right now, but you can't talk in third person about what's going on in Congress of Deputies, because you've voted not to unlock the situation in Congress. And you, who speak so much of the People's Party, and it is clear that it is no dish of pleasure for anyone to have to make Mr Rajoy again president, but you had an opportunity to change the President of Spain and, as you say, "to throw out the People's Party of the Government of Spain with the agreement of the Socialist and Citizens' Party". And what did they vote for? No, I don't. Why? Because you're very comfortable in the blockade. For you, the worse I go there, in Spain, the better for you. Because if Spain starts to get better, how are they going to justify to people that they have to do anything to get out of Spain? You guys, the worse, the better. And we believe that there, the better, the better, because what happens in Spain also affects Catalans. And that the autonomous can't start paying less from now on, because you block those agreements, it's bad for the Catalans. And because we can't have a tax cut, it's bad for Catalans. That we can't have more weeks of motherhood and paternity, it's bad for Catalans. But you're not thinking about the Catalans, you're thinking about just prolonging the agony, on that static bike. How well you live with ministers who make certain statements. How well you live with an absolute majority PP, with the policies of the absolute majority, many of them agreed with you, such as labor reform or tax amnesty. How do you feel, Mr Puigdemont, that you voted in favour of the People's Party's tax amnesty? That's not what he's talking about. From energy reform, you sometimes say 'that we cannot do anything, we cannot boost renewable energy because the evil Spanish state does not leave us. But if you have given the right to the energy reforms of this country, to the last of the Government of Spain. But how can they have this double morale, if not something else? What you know is that if the PP stops having a majority, you run out of cabbage, you run out of cabbage to be able to say one thing here and in Madrid. To be able to say here that the evil is Spain and then in Congress vote with the PP government. You have fought a lot with the People's Party in public, but in offices you know how to reach agreements with the People's Party. And until very recently, until very recently, they have voted on proposals even if they did not have to vote on them, which, from a strategic point of view, I have not just understood, have they? , that of supporting a tax amnesty and a labor reform did not just understand. But well, you did, because you thought this was going to go on like this forever, because you thought you were going to keep giving it to the little machine. Therefore, you have done nothing to unlock the situation, you have done nothing to stop Mr. Mariano Rajoy from going unnoticed and without subjecting himself to parliamentary control, which I believe is Mr. Rajoy's dream, to remain in office always and not have to give any kind of explanation in Congress. You have been participants; therefore, do not speak in third person. It is true that they have fewer and fewer seats, but they are still there for the moment; therefore, they are also responsible for their votes in Congress. Then you speak, again, of hunting Pokémons, and of who does, therefore, the most foolish elucubrations and... I only tell you one thing: next year, by these dates, we will see who has dedicated himself to hunting Pokémons and who has dedicated himself to working for the Catalans. [[Greetings.]] Because the only good thing that... well, they've done other good things, I'm not gonna say the only good thing. But something very good that you have done about this is that you have set it an expiry date; you are extending it, this is like..., before it was a preferential consumption date, now we are going to date an expiry date, but you have set it an expiry date, even if you do extend it, even if you ask for extensions, but it will end, and the time will come when we will see if you have told the Catalans the truth, if next year, as you said the other day on a public radio, the day will serve to celebrate the independence of Catalonia, of 2017, or we will be here again talking about the things that matter to the Catalans. Time will tell, Mr Puigdemont, time will tell. The bad news is we're going to waste a lot of time on the road; that's the bad news. And with regard to the democratic mandate and the electoral programme, there is full agreement: the electoral programmes are to be fulfilled, and more so when one has an absolute majority. And I would love for the Convergence Government to have fulfilled some of its electoral agenda during all these years. The one-stop shop, my God! , how many years we've been reading about in the programs and it's still not a reality. But do you know one thing that can't be fulfilled even if it's on the election program? Something that's out of the democratic laws and the courts. Because, if not, it's easy, isn't it? If you do not want to comply with Community directives on employment, you put it on the electoral agenda, win and do not comply with them. And that's the perfect passport. But I don't know..., I don't know if you're a law graduate, but where have you studied law, democratic system? Because putting it on the election program doesn't mean that if it's illegal, it can be done. If the gentlemen of the CUP come to an election and say that they are going to eliminate all the floors of the coast, because they do not like it, even if they win the elections, even if they govern, they will not be able to carry it out, because it is illegal. Do you understand that politicians have to comply with the laws? , that for many promises we make to carry them out we have to respect them as the rest? So don't say that kind of thing. And then, with regard to the exit of the European Union if Catalonia becomes independent, do you see that they cannot hold a referendum if they do not recognise the reality? How are you going to make a referendum when you're going to lie to the Catalans? Look, here I have a list of all the statements of all the members of the European Union that have said clearly – and I read textually in a written reply from the European Commission – that when a part of the territory of a Member State ceases to be part of that state, for example, because it becomes an independent state – which is what you want – the treaties will cease to apply to that state. In other words, a new independent region, by virtue of its independence, will become a third state in relation to the Union and, from the day of its independence, the treaties will no longer apply in its territory. I am reading a written reply from the European Commission. And do you know who insists on this idea? Not Mr. Romeva, no, no. Joaquín Almunia, when he was Vice-President of the Commission and Commissioner for Competition, made it clear that Catalonia would no longer be part of the euro if it finally became independent. Viviane Reding, who was also interviewed on the public radio station in Catalonia, Viviane Reding, who was not a single person, Vice-President of the Commission : "The European Union cannot recognise unilateral independence. I fully agree with the previous analysis. Durão Barroso, President of the European Commission, speaking of the referendum in Scotland and saying that if Scotland becomes independent it should leave the European Union. I've got infinity. Van Rompuy... But I also have some who at best give you more confidence, such as Mr Pujol, in 2012: "That Catalonia would leave the European Union if it became independent is a fact. Mr Artur Mas, when he was intellectually fighting those who proposed independence, acknowledged that Catalonia would leave the European Union. But I think I'm going to take out a statement that you're going to gain even more confidence: that of yourself; you, who spoke yesterday of 'I have confidence in myself. Do you have confidence in what you said in May this year...? He didn't say it in Catalan media, no; he had to say it in an American_medium, the CNBC. He says: "The European Union is threatening Catalonia to pull us out if we declare independence. Why can't what you say in English be said in Catalan here in the Catalan media? [[Greetings.]] Why? You acknowledge that the European Union..., of course, is not a threat, it is a fact. The European Union is a union of states that sign the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. Therefore, what you recognize in other media, please have the decency to recognize it also in the Catalan public media, in which we all pay. I already know that maybe it's not the same thing to do an interview there as to do the one here, but be consistent, please. Regarding the fifteen points I handed him the other day at the meeting. Looks like we were talking for an hour, but I don't know if he heard me very well. Those proposals that we were talking about pension reform, the Mediterranean Corridor, the financing system, as it comes in the title of the document I gave you, in the initial paragraph, are not proposals for you to carry out them with the powers of the Generalitat, it is a summary of the demands that we have included in our governing agreements in Madrid with the People's Party and with the Socialist Party. Have they set in motion? No, no, Why? Among other things, because you block a government. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. If you would like to see a new government and that these reforms, which were not a proposal for you, were to teach you the difference between what you are asking for in Madrid and what we are asking, with thirty-two Members, you in the Joint Group, for you to understand what the difference in priorities is, simply. So I may have expressed myself very badly, but we were almost an hour talking, and I'm not sure he'll just find out, right? About Mr Urkullu. Mr Puigdemont, I have huge ideological differences with Mr Urkullu, of course I do, but I do not campaign for him in Basque campaigns, like you. It will be more difficult to explain the contradictions that you have with them, that you are campaigning for them..., than we are. And I'm telling you one thing, what they've been saying..., I'm not talking about you having programmatic discrepancies, which seems normal to me, is that the interviews, as you say well, you have to read them whole, you even have to come to the end, and when you ask for Catalonia, it says: "That, the adherence of many people, how we can broaden the base, the adherence of many people, that is not achieved with division and frentism. We do not bet on unilaterality, because it would never be accepted in Europe. Therefore, if you campaign for him, it seems to me that you have some discrepancies. [[Greetings.]] I also like you to take out the results of the Basque Country and Galicia, because it shows one thing: a whole president of the Generalitat, the election night of the Basque Country and Galicia, looking there, updating the results, to see if Citizens have entered or not; the first tweet they put, ours. [[Greetings.]] Man, flatter me– flatter me–; flatter me because that shows who is the leader of the opposition in Catalonia. And it's not the Socialist Party; it's not Catalonia Yes, it's Pot; of course, it's not the UPC; it's not the People's Party; no, it's Citizens. But that a whole president of the Generalitat, thinking to see how many we take out, with which the Socialist Party is bound – which you say nothing about that – is a sign that we will be doing something right. And it's also that I understand it, because Mr. Mas – and I have seen that in person – has gone from treating us as an insignificant minority – he said – to seeing how you have fewer and fewer seats, we have more and more seats in Congress, you are in the Joint Group, and in ALDE, so much as you speak of Europe, you have gone on to say that you were not going to let us in the ALDE group to have to say that you want to go because we are already there. [[Greetings.]] And, in fact, at the congress... [[applause persists]] , at the ALDE Congress, you have passed, if I don't have the wrong data, from twenty-seven compromisers to six, and we, who had none, have passed to forty-seven compromisers. No wonder that on election day, you, instead of thinking about what your comrades of the same party in the Basque Country, in which the Socialist Party has on it, I am not surprised that you are dedicated to seeing how much we have taken out in Citizens. And then you ask me if I'm okay with it, whether or not I agree with the government not paying what it owes in dependence, with the government not investing what it owes in Catalonia. Of course I think it's fatal. And so when we go to Madrid, in the agreements, instead of asking for a referendum, we incorporate, for example, the Mediterranean Corridor, because the Mediterranean Corridor is to better connect Catalonia with the rest of Spain and with the rest of Europe, not to disconnect it, as you want to see. Of course, it seems wrong to me when the Spanish Government does not comply with its commitments in rhaelies, and that is why we denounce it, and that is why we are presenting initiatives in Congress. We find fatal the cases of corruption you have in the Government of Spain; just as bad as those you have in the leadership of your party, just as bad, because you have looked a lot like the People's Party. We find it fatal that the tax amnesties, which you and those of the People's Party are voting for, are the same. We find it fatal when people's money is thrown into things that are not necessary, when you do it and when they do it. We find it fatal to keep political bars full of party plugs and to cut in health and education. We find it fatal, when you do it and when they do it. That's why we can order things there and things here. And I tell you again one thing that I have told you many times, and we recognize the two governments that governing is very difficult and that governing at a time of crisis is very complicated, and that there are no resources for all the needs that exist, and that you cannot make unfulfilled promises that generate frustration. But among that, between making populist proposals that the deficit must not be fulfilled and that doesn't matter, and we leave Europe and nothing happens, and defending that there are more political chiringuitos than any other autonomous community while it cuts in health as in any other autonomous community, there is a stretch of political centrality, which is where Citizens are located. And then, about the pharmacies. The pharmacies are getting late. And in fact, do you know what it takes for you to pay late? In the last payment, more than €9 million. What you do not prioritize the resources of the Generalitat makes it more expensive for all Catalans to pay to the social entities and to the suppliers of the Generalitat. That seems wrong to me when the Spanish Government does it and when you do it, because it affects the same when you cut and keep bars, when you commit cases of corruption, when you don't prioritize resources well, when you do that affect the Catalans who are independentists and the Catalans who are not independentists. And you said that I was standing as the heir to Catalanism; I did not say at any time neither "heritage nor" Catalanism, that is to say I... I know that I have done the intervention in a good tone, but that does not make it difficult for anyone who listens to me. Let's see if you're going to stay alone with the tone and don't get into the content. What I have said is that we in the Congress of Deputies are demanding from the old parties claims that are historic, from the Catalans. And I can repeat to you many others, such as the paid allowance, which you voted against, here in Parliament, years ago. For now it is the first time that the People's Party has recognized that it has been wrong and has to incorporate it into its government agreement. All those things are good for all Catalans. And yes, I am also concerned about the independenceists, Mr Puigdemont. I recognize him. I believe that you do not care very much about those who are not, but I do care about the independenceists, because I think they have the same problems, the same ones, the same ones that we are not, and because I think they will see their expectations frustrated, which you have generated in an absolutely irresponsible way. And of course I care about them, because when you aspire to be president of the Generalitat you have to worry about all citizens, not just those who vote for them. And I'll tell you one thing: there are many people at heart who would like to live in an independent Catalonia, there are many people who don't have to envy anything to you, or you, in esteem for Catalonia, but who know that what you are proposing is an authentic barbarity. Therefore, when you think of the independenceists, also think of those who would like to live in an independent Catalonia but who put their hairs to the point seeing what you are saying and what you are doing. And, ultimately, I think there are different alternatives in Catalonia right now. While you want to impose yourself, according to some Member, a mindset of conflict, we want a mindset of agreement, and we have demonstrated it in other parts of Spain. While you want to jump over the laws, we want to reform the laws. While you think the Constitution is a wet paper, we want to reform it and change it and adapt it to the 21st century. While you want to continue suffocating at taxes, we want to lower them. While you want to disconnect Catalonia, we want to connect the best and best with the rest of Europe and the rest of Spain. And, in short, while you, in the Joint Group of Congress, speak only of referendum, we want to be influential so that the demands of Catalans are a demand of the new government of Spain. We do not want to take the Catalans out of Spain and the European Union, we want to reform Spain and also, in the future, reform a European Union to make it more just and fit for the 21st century. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.17.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[The applause continues. Pause.]] The President of the Generalitat has the word. [[The President of the Generalitat gives up using the word.]] Mr Miquel Iceta, president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.18.0	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... very honourable President of the Generality, this is a debate on the question of trust. Well, therefore, I regret to say to you, but I will not surprise you, that the Socialist Group, which did not vote for its investiture in the month of generation, will also not hold you to trust in September. For the most part, we do not share his political objective of independence. We don't want to divide the Catalans or separate ourselves from the rest of Spain. That said, we regard our country and its people as much as you do, and we want to contribute to the progress and well-being of the community as much as you do; we want prosperity, social justice and good governance; we want to work to have more self-government, better finance and a leading role in the federal reform of Spain and the construction of Europe, which we cannot do if you achieve your goal. We defend the path of dialogue, negotiation and pact, and reject unilateral solutions, for ineffectiveness. Unilaterality doesn't go away. You have neither legitimacy nor strength to impose a unilateral path. And you don't have the right to put Catalan institutions, which are all of us, out of the law; I have already said that on various occasions. You intend to present a project that is 48_percent of the citizens of Catalonia. But the rest doesn't count? President, before entering a little deeper into these and other questions, I would like to say to you that the feeling of this debate would be completely distorted if today the partner who ensured his investment and the only one who can accompany him on this question of confidence unequivocally states that he will vote on the assumptions. Better said, if you do not say so; if you say so, it would be absolutely validated. Why, why are we doing this debate? Because the government couldn't approve the assumptions and you wanted to give a sign of stability and an opportunity for the chamber to ratify its trust. You said it yourself yesterday, and that honor. He says: "Don't stifle my confidence if you don't have to give support to the assumptions later. Therefore, I congratulated you on this debate. Now, depending on how – we have to recognize it, and for that we have to wait this late – this debate probably does not serve the objective, which was to give continuity and disable its government action. Right now his government is still not holding the guaranteed stability. And, in effect, if those who trust him are not willing to vote on the assumptions, this debate will not have served as a king. I return to the main thread of my intervention: we can't trust it, not just because we don't share objectives and full route, but because it seems to me that it doesn't end up adding to what is compromised. I remembered that the genera were talking to us about a participatory process. Where are you? I remembered that the gener was talking about a preliminary draft of the law of the process. Where are you? Finally, some of the joint ponies that have been created together for the Yes and the UPC have fallen because the deadline for the completion of their work has ended and they have not even called for extension. The gener was talking about the internationalization of the process. President, I ask you: in these eight months have you been able to see any Prime Minister or Minister of Foreign Affairs of some of the twenty-eighth countries of the European Union? Leaving the band Spanish, of course. Before I told him that Catalonia wants to work to build a new Europe, because this new Europe needs Catalonia as much as Catalonia needs Europe, and the way you set it up would make it impossible for us to participate. If it is already difficult for a country to enter the European Union, it is impossible to do so from a break in legality. Can I mention any European country that is willing to recognise a unilateral reference? They may have said so at these meetings, which he will discuss later. President, yesterday you were speaking to us with pride about the law of transparency. And we're not proud either, because we wanted to vote for it. Now, that was from the previous legislature. We do not believe that in these eight months we have solved any of the country's outstanding problems. You still have to wait for the great day that will serve to solve almost miraculously all the problems. But the while? We have a public debt that will exceed €75,000_million at the end of the year. In five years their governments have generated more public debt than left-wing governments in seven years. Social expenditure is frozen at 11 years of age. Certainly, there are some positive growth and occupation data, and we are the first to celebrate them, but 445,000 standstills and standstills, of which 312,000 cover a maximum benefit of 426 euros or do not cover re, are for us a special concern. Mortal occupational accidents have increased by 76_per_cent. A Bretxa in school income follows the origin of the alumni, and tells us the NGO Save the Children that Catalonia is a Bretxa larger than in the conjunct of Spain. Six_of_each_two infants from zero to three years are not educated. And on his unapproved assumptions there was no euro dedicated to this. And we have more than a thousand prefabricated classrooms. According to the Federation of Associations in Defense of Public Health, in its report on the health services of the autonomous communities, Catalonia occupies the 14th place of thesis. The year 2009 was the number 5 spending on GDP. The time to stay on the waiting list to earn a dependency benefit is in Catalonia a 150_per_cent longer than the Spanish average. This was the report of the State Observers of Dependence of the Association of Social Service Directors of July of Encany. The infancy investment in Catalonia is 0.9_percent of GDP, very much below the Spanish middle, which is 1.4_percent, and the European, 2.2_percent. All this by taking the data that gives the Idescat. According to the strict social report of the Rafael Campalans Foundation, three_of_each_thousandless years of divorce are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, according to data from Arope and Eurostat. By the year 2015, 19.6_percent of Catalans showed difficulties in paying on-site housing expenses. And, president, which is: I donate these data not as an element of criticism to his management, this will in any case correspond to the debate on the general political orientation of the Government, but I do it as a reminder of our social reality, which should be our main priority, our main look. And maybe he'll tell me, because he told me on other occasions, that if it couldn't be done more, it's because we weren't going to approve it. But forgive the simile: I didn't deny us for not having gone to a party he didn't invite us to. While independence does not rise, as his government is able to work to improve the living and working conditions of our people, and we will talk about it next week, it seems to me that it is, yes. But I now return, Mr President, to the debate on the name of the full road, which in the background is the core of the debate on this question of trust. There was a full route, which was the one that presented Junts for the Yes to the elections. Of the investiture debate, there was a path, which was the one of approval of the laws of disconnection and after constituent elections. To the conclusions of the Commission of Study of the Process Constituent there appears a ghostly assembly that now I see that has disappeared from the scene. Well, that sounds good. Finally, it seems that the way he proposes to us is to revert to or referendum granted or organized for Junqueras and Romeva. This is the alternative. I don't know if before or after a proclamation or declaration of independence, what it was talking about in the Full Route of Junts for the Yes. And, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but the proposal for a unilateral reference has also raised a lot of doubts among the independenceists, not only among those who do not share the independence project. I don't have to look far enough to find these doubts. The phrase "the unilateral reference of independence is a proposal of adolescent policies is not mine. You're from Ferran Requejo. Give me more. Deia: "It is a proposal aimed at satisfying impatient independenceists. He was talking about problems of facility, legality, legitimacy, and he said he was dividing the same independence movement. Professor Requejo, not me, said: "We would lose a lot of time, a lot of energy, and probably put us before a deep disappointment. And a last sentence, which is not from Requejo, but not my own, and which comes out of its rows: "If it is a unilateral reference of independence, it will be a 9-N, but pathetic. I just want to say to him: think about it, President, before I do the task, it's not like it's a committed task..., Mr. Vice President. In such a transcendental matter, a major precision and a major, as I would say? I'm sure you'd be able to get a full ride on all of us. To those who trust and to those who don't. We all know it's very difficult to agree on a reference to independence. Don't be fooled, we don't come here to play floral games. Now, believe me, trying to wake him up by putting an ultimatum on the table is impossible, and turning him on to the investiture of a government of Spain is a mistake. In these conditions, and if they depend on you, there will be no change, in Spain. Pretty complicated he paints. But it's worse: it says how there can still be an involvement. You know that we are defending a reference to a new agreement that would be part of a federal constitutional reform. I know this doesn't bring together a lot of protesters, but I'd like to know how many votes you can count on. And I know perfectly well that the proposal that we are making does not satisfy the longings of many people, and I also know its difficulty. We don't know when it's going to be, what it's going to be, or what it's going to be, or what it's going to be. But – and let's not disagree with that, but it's an even healthy discrepancy – I'm convinced that this proposal is the most solid and viable, and I'm more convinced that getting to the right place would be accepted by a majority of Catalans and Spanish people. But allow me, Mr President, to underline the fact that I think it separates its political position more from ours: unilaterality. There is no unilateral solution to a problem that is not just Catalan, but it is a Spanish problem. And, certainly, I think we should make an effort to find an answer to the following question: does it have a reasonable exit, without conflicts and with a broad social support, the current atzucac in which Catalonia's relationship with the rest of Spain is found? Unfortunately, there is no reason for optimism if we look at what has happened since 2010. Whether or not the Constitutional Court's ruling on the Statute which had been voted on by the Catalan citizenry left the path of the pact to a halt, and so far there has been no serious initiative to resume this path. And here I'll tell him, it's not just his responsibility, and so it's not that you make him a special toilet. But I see the blockage of the only way from our point of view can unlock the issue. The Government of the People's Party has so far directly denied the problem, while its Government and that of its predecessor take advantage of it to add arguments and support to its independent project. I say to you and Rajoy, to the President of the Generality and to the President of the Government of Spain, that neither immobilism nor unilaterality carry no place. Or they may lead us to a conflict that nobody says they want, but it would harm us all. Mr President, we have not spoken on other occasions: the result of the elections to the Catalan Parliament on 27 September 2015 is unequivocal. There is a majority of Parliamentarians who gave them support because you were invested as president and because you can rule, but there is no citizen majority in favour of independence. Presuming this is wrong. And he says, "No, it's just that we'll leave it all to them and then they'll decide. Look, you've set yourself a goal that's not for a majority of Catalans. And here, it's true, there are many obstacles to the independence project. But the first, the most phonative, is that it doesn't have yet, if I may, and I put it right, enough support. The social majority that exists in Catalonia today is the one that we form, the one that we form, all those people who are dissatisfied with the current state of relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, a majority of whom stand out people who, like you and your group, want independence, but also many others like us, who want the recognition of our national reality, more self-government, better financing and direct participation in the governance of the State through mechanisms of participation close to a federal state. President, I think you can rule out false rights and magic or immediate solutions. There isn't. The problem of Catalonia's relationship with the rest of Spain, such as the federalists and the autonomists, or of Catalonia's relationship with Spain, such as the independenceists, is not exclusively a problem of Catalonia. It's Spain's problem. And if it is a problem of Spain there is no reason why the solution or the framing of the problem can be addressed without the participation of the Spanish institutions and the opinion and decision of the Spanish people, and, logically, the participation of the Catalan institutions and the opinion of the Catalan people. If that's the case, and we believe it, there are no other ways than the dialog, the negotiation, and the pact. We think it's the only way to solve the problem. Because we do not deceive ourselves, and above all we do not deceive the citizens, those who can feel frustrated if the objectives fixed in the fixed terms do not settle down afterwards: not a majority of Spaniards can impose a solution that is not accepted by most Catalans nor a majority of Catalans can impose a solution that is not accepted by most Spaniards. Even assuming – that it is already very supposed – that since Catalan institutions are tingued – that there is not – the moral, legal and physical strength sufficient to impose a unilateral decision, the problem does not have a feasible, reasonable and acceptable solution to the Spanish society, and neither at these times to the same Catalan society nor, of course, at European and international level, without a pact between the Catalan institutions and the Spanish institutions. Mr President, it is often very difficult to hear the inconsistencies in which Catalan policy is set up – I am not talking about Spanish, which could also open a chapter apart. While there are resolutions in this chamber, with their vote, saying that the Constitutional Court no longer has the authority of Catalonia, the same chamber, and also its Government, do not fail to submit allegations and appeals before the same Constitutional Court. While talking about disconnection, they demand more and better connections: energy, water, railways... all of them essential. They promote disconnection laws that don't disconnect. I read me four times the project of the Catalonia Social Protection Agency, to see if the disconnect point had gone unnoticed. I've consulted, I've made him look. President, help me: we didn't find him. But in change, it's said to be a law of disconnection! If a disconnect law doesn't disconnect, is it a disconnect law? We're in a permanent logo [[some applause]] But... well, we'll see the others, won't we? When these ponences are resurrected and the vagina comes out or it's not a trossage..., in other words. But this great piece of legislation is seen to culminate in a law of legal transition. I may be afraid, but I think it won't hold up, I think it doesn't respect the legal logic of a state of law and is therefore doomed to failure. That is true, for the sake of independence, when the Constitutional Court annuls these laws – which will make sense, doubtless, which it will do for unanimity – you will tell us that some nine elections to Parliament will serve to resurrect these legal texts from the dead. But, President, we think it won't be like that. I will not tire of repeating it: the problem we have on the table does not have a simple solution, in the form of declaration, proclamation, reference or whatever it is that they are unilaterally invented. We don't know how to see a exit that doesn't go through the dialog, the negotiation and the pact. And in the current context there can be no dialogue, negotiation and pacts from lasts or we are in a hurry. I know that maybe they'll tell me that this is an outdated stage, that political Catalanism is now different, that we're now at a decisive stage, at all or nothing; and maybe they'll tell me with the same strength they used to talk about plebiscite elections. We've been through so many pants so quickly that we don't have to wear four years without any concrete advent: no more competition, no more resources, no more investments, no more projects, no more cooperation between administrations, no new funding, no more king of kings. But it is said that all this is already past water, that we are now in another phase, that we are now hoping to win it all at once when the big day comes and that if this makes us give up some concrete adventures in the day-to-day, then what we will do. Look, it's the way to see it. We do not believe that the concrete problems of Catalans and Catalans can wait a great day where everything will be solved by magic. We believe that we are not in a process of national transition – Catalonia is, has been and will be a nation – nor in a progressive disconnection, or at least not based on laws that do not disconnect, neither in a post-autonomous phase, nor almost sovereign, nor pre-independent. We can't go on jumping pants, and I'm afraid we can't go back to our previous pants. I return to the idea of the absence of easy solutions. If there are no easy solutions, we have the complexes, which are the result of the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact; the federal solutions, in short. And that is why, among other reasons, the Socialists are proposing a path that culminates in a referendum that can win Catalonia as much as in the conjunct of Spain. It is the only way to verify whether the proposal has the necessary consensus here and there. But the reference to the federal constitutional reform that we are proposing will be one of the last stages of this process, and it is not the new status or Catalan constitution that is the result of the federal pact. And don't let anyone scare me: as a constitution they have all the states of the Mexican United States, huh? I mean, they're not thinking either... 'cause here, as with names, suddenly and again someone does a great thing, so, we, who have read and traveled, don't do so much. [[Widow's remorse.]] But because this solution is viable, it can start from now on a long way that hurts, makes mistakes and opens up prospects for a political background dialog. And in this brand, President, you ask us for our trust. He asks us for confidence because we allow him to follow a path that only leads to the society's confrontation and division. He asks us for confidence because we allow him to follow a path that he has as far as breaking the law and the state of law and leaving the Catalan institutions out of the law. He asks us for confidence because we allow him to take Catalonia to take the greatest risk after we have democracy and self-government. He asks us for confidence because we allow him to follow a unilateral path that he does not carry. He asks us for confidence to ignore the outcome of the later elections, which you said were plebiscites until they lost the plebiscite. Well, if it's to follow these paths – and he'll understand – we can't trust him. On our part, it would be a very serious inconsistency and a difficult irresponsibility, we will not do it. We can't give him our trust because, as I said and I think you know, there's no way he won't come through the dialog, the negotiation and the pact. The experience of more than a hundred years of political Catalanism tells us that without a dialogue, negotiation and pact there has never been an advance in Catalonia. On the contrary, when someone thought they could impose a solution or a concrete policy, and this has not been widely collected for the citizenry, it has always ended in disaster. We can't give him our confidence because there are no unilateral ways to solve the problem of national recognition that Catalonia has today. We can't give you our confidence when you want to follow a path that most Catalans don't want to follow, even if it may be that a majority of Members of this House want to follow. We can't give you our confidence when the Catalan society is cut by half because you are in a hurry to achieve objectives that are not shared by most Catalans. No, President, to do what you tell us you want to do, we cannot give you our trust. Mr. President, if you turned our trust, you know perfectly well that the path and the full route would have to be others. I'm not asking him to give up his convictions, he would never do it, out of respect and as a democrat, on his own. But, for the same reason that we all have in our ideas and political positions some ideals that we seek in the long term but that, in change, we know that we will soon have to settle down some other less ambitious ones, I ask you to think about today and beyond the needs of Catalan society, and not only in the future ideal of the independence that you pursue. What should be, in our opinion, this option? First step: to reverse the dynamic of conflicting relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain. You will have all our support if you bet to resolve the outstanding competition disputes through negotiation, to work the elements of self-government eroded by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, that the same judgment already points out that they could be resolved by amending laws at the Congress; for example, the Organic Law of the judiciary; or that of the local regime, to make possible the own territorial organization in vegueries; the regulations of state bodies and institutions, to promote participation in them of the autonomous communities, etc. He'll have all our support if he wants this room to give him support to address the twenty-three issues raised already for President But President Rajoy, that some of them, moreover, were already coming from ancient times. He will have all our support if he seeks us for issues such as repealing LOMCE, particularly for the interference he makes in the language and educational policy of the Generality ; to approve a law of languages of the State ; to ensure the presence of Catalan language and culture at UNESCO ; to resolve questions relating to historical memory, such as the definitive, total and absolute annulment of the judiciary to President Companies. We know that many of these objectives are difficult and that they have stood in the past and we have not managed to solve them, but we continue to offer our collaboration to do so, if this is the way you want to take it. And even smaller issues: I remember the face of some socialist political minister when we taught him a design of registration with an autonomous distinction – at that time, moreover, there were no defibrillators at the despatxos [[relays]] – But..., I was told that it was impossible. Well, they're the ones in France now, which is no distinction for being a European state, we would say, of the curiosest with national or regional diversity. Second step: we would like you to decide to abandon the idea of inhibiting yourself before negotiating a new financing system. We're saying..., well, to inhibit or not to take a lead role – if you want, I'll kill you. So, I'd like you to have, my president, a lead role in this, because he's my president. And, it is true, there is an excessive effort imposed on the autonomous communities to reduce the deficit, we should negotiate a partial removal of our debt, we should introduce the principle of ordinaryity, we should encourage tax consortia from our point of view. But that's what you have to negotiate. If you choose the other way, these objectives – if not all, the vast majority – will remain in the band. A few days ago, the vice president complained about the unequal distribution of the deficit imposed on Minister Montoro. We also believe that this is an unfair division. You can choose to hold our support in Catalonia and Madrid to fight together against this division and for the new funding. We can also work together to seek alliances for the revision of the investment policy that the PP has applied to the length of the later years. And I want to congratulate you, President, on the recovery of relations with the Valencian Generalitat – I want to congratulate you. The third is that, for us, the prospect of a federal pact must be opened up through constitutional reform. Mr President, I am aware that the way I propose is not simple and that even some may prefer to play the Russian roulette at all. But I believe that both Rajoy's immobility and the unilateral drift of independence are fractious and can ultimately lead to a clash of trains in which we all lose, and put at risk even the civil unity of the Catalan people and the functioning of our self-government. For this reason, and aware of the great importance that Catalonia has to Spanish politics, I believe that Catalanism, in its various expressions, should not be inhibited in the effort to change the government to Spain and replace Mariano Rajoy as President of the Government. You know, I've said it in other circles with a lot of vehemence, today I'm saying it with the closest to a parliamentary debate. I am convinced that a large majority of Catalans and Catalans, more than 75_per_cent if we take as an indicator the outcome of the later general elections, want a change in the presidency of the Government. And the question or one of the questions is whether the forces that give them support to you and the supporters of the given referendum will be able to favor this change without conditioning the investiture of a new president to the celebration of a referendum on independence. I do not say to them, I repeat, that they change political objectives, nor that they abandon their claims; only they ask them to collaborate with the political change in Spain, that they do not condition the investiture to obtain a referendum on independence. I think we'd all win, I think Catalans and Catalans would win. Mr President, regardless of the outcome of the vote on the question of trust, we will continue to defend our federal project and the path of dialogue, negotiation and the pact. We know, we are convinced that it is the only reasonable and possible way to establish a _framework in which we can resolve in an agreed manner, by means of well-known, accepted and respected mechanisms, the inevitable problems that arise when different levels of government coexist and the best way to order the coexistence of different feelings of belonging or different national identities. We warn, Mr President, that in the next few months some elements that have characterized Catalan politics in recent years may be accentuated: a number of constantly evolving routes, unable to smooth out the objectives that are proposed; a rhetoric that stores the gap and the lost time, and such a time as an increase in polarization or, finally, in the negit, frustration and the elements that are associated with it. Perhaps it will increase the pressure to stigmatize those we do not buy with the dogma processor, those we do not believe in miraculous solutions, those we even say that the references of the half plus one may not be the most suitable tool to solve the problem, and more so after seeing some very recent experiences, such as that of Scotland or Brexit. Half more is a little bit when it comes to breaking; half more is insufficient when it is intended to solve a problem that affects the feelings of national identity, that they get used to being very barred; half more is insufficient to undo accumulated bonds in the long run. In short, I already know that today I will not convince them – it wasn't perhaps my job today – but I would like to say to him, President, that we will not abandon our way or let ourselves be watered down by strategies of others. We will continue to work together on what I suppose is a better degree of self-government and finance, but we will not accompany unilateral disruptive strategies that the majority of Catalans do not want, that are condemned to the frail and that can have irreparable consequences for our self-government and the civil unity of our people. And we will, among other things, because we have already suffered enough from the effects of polarization – I speak to them as political force – and we have seen them also in other political forces. Socialists do not want to add confusion to the already convulsive situation of our political landscape. We will follow without participating in demonstrations of which we do not share the objectives. We will not play hand games in order not to define ourselves, nor will we stop issuing opinions and consistent votes with our approach, even though this can lead us to uncomfortable situations. And you can be sure, Mr President, that for the sake of Catalonia we will continue to warn against the risks of division, the dangers of rights that place Catalan institutions outside the law or the false promises, which are a guarantee of future frustrations. We would never forgive ourselves having silenced our reasons for convenience or convenience. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.19.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.20.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, do not give me any illusions that you have in faith political trust. I think the staff have it, but it's political, obviously, it doesn't mean anything to me. But, tanmateix, we must try! Until all the things that are impossible in advance, we must also try: that there is confidence; that there are assumptions, even though we know that you will not vote for them, but that we will have a debate of assumptions, or that there may be a reference. We know you won't vote for it, but it's also interesting that we can discuss it, that's why. There are no red lines to democracy. So that today you don't trust me, you don't mean, too, that I can't get out of this Parliament, or that I honestly don't try to earn my trust. You have a very particular concept, which I respect but which I do not share, of which you mean to have legitimacy or not to have it. And, finally, I don't want to get into sterile controversy, because I think it's not worth it, but I'll repeat what I've said before on other occasions, and I'll do it as many times as I can: the democratic system, a democratic society is basically and fundamentally based on the decision of its citizens, of the majority. When year 76 was remembered that cry of "Liberty, amnesty, state of autonomy, there was a cry of illegality, because there was no liberation, because there was no amnesty, and there was no autonomy, and there was a demand of illegality, and it was a demand of the street, and, consequently, what happened? What was the democratic understanding of the responsible politicians chosen to serve the people? So, taking into account what the majority gave, and then proving whether the majority, through a status and constitution referendums, agreed or disagreed with those decisions. But let's not lie, please, nor banalize what is the demand of the people. People are grown-ups. The people, when they come out in the street, five years in a row, millions of people, do not deserve to be considered an indoctrinate branch and credul of an impossible utopia. [[Greetings.]] This admits not only the discrepancy, but the legitimate fight against it, and so much so! And you have to respect yourself. But, please, do not trivialize what is a persistent effort, believed – that you, as a Democrat, should admire it –, that has made this people in these last years, to want something that already year 76 wanted a people that faced a legitimacy and a legality that did not allow it, and that wants legality to allow it. And what is the work of the deputies before this situation? What do we have to do? Who do we have to deal with? Do we have to deal with IBEX 35? Do we have to deal with the barons of our party? Should we take note of what you are doing to the board of directors? Do we have to deal with interested editorialists? Do we have to do it to these people or do we have to do it to what the people say, with all their bondage, in an urn? So, look, I'm from these seconds – I'm from these seconds. You can call me whatever you want, but don't pass me over, please, legitimize. In any case, we disagree about whether or not the political project is bounded, but mine is as legitimate as its own. And mine doesn't create any more division than the one that can create a debate about federalism, or is it that everyone will agree with federalism? Or does it guarantee that 100 percent of Catalans will agree and that there will be no controversy and no division here? Oh, so much for it! There will be a lot of people who won't like federalism! But then there will be no confrontation? Won't there be a civil breakup? Is there not all this that you say will happen by the simple fact of wanting to put on the parliamentary debate what is a real, not fictional, real demand of the people? We're still a little serious trying to get in the way, to answer, if not more, the will of the people of this country. It is clear that we are concerned about social issues, questions that affect citizens. It's the first concern. That's why we decide on a project so difficult – so difficult – with some uncertainties – that I admit them – as it is trying to make this country an independent state. Of course I do. Who do you think we're doing this for? For the citizens. Because, with the measures we have now..., I reminded him of a phrase by Mr. Maragall, twelve years ago, in which there was a well-intentioned hope that the political change that was emerging then – President Zapatero, certainly – could provoke this which you have just repeated twelve years later here. What happened in those twelve years? That we've gone back. And it's not that I've had an independent rage twelve years ago, let's just say; it wasn't. Nor is it that when the People's Party began to gather the signatures against the State, it did so against an independent movement, which was not. So it's clear that we're worried about people. We are so concerned that, just's, talking about the schools in Catalonia, you mentioned before a report from the Rafael Campalans Foundation, and that it was very strict; sure it is, it has forgotten to say that it is a foundation linked to its party. I will quote a report from another foundation, which is not linked to my party or its, which is Jaume Bofill. What's the evolution of Bressol school coverage in Catalonia in '98, let's say, until 2015? Miri, 2008-2009, when his party had responsibility for education, the coverage rate was 41.5; 2014-2015 was 44.2. More coverage in the later Government, this one of the retail, right, etcetera, than in that government of the tripartite. They are data, not from the government, not from a foundation on its part, from a foundation that I believe has gained credibility at the time of talking about education in this country. But I'll tell you more. More recently, ESO's graduation rate has risen to 88_per_cent in the past course. We have passed from 120, let's say, the names of centers that were totally in prefabricated modules, from 120 to the 2008-2009 course, the same course that I mentioned before, to 86 in 16-17; 120 to 86. Is that going forward or going backwards, on the subject of prefabricated modules? We have incorporated 140 more teachers for inclusive education. We prioritized high-complexity centers with 400 more teachers. We have made 6 schools, 2 institutes, 2 schools school of new creation. And we've opened 9 new buildings, 5 rehabilitations and 338 better performances. All of this – all of this – because, as the week we'll have the opportunity to go into detail, at least let him review a little of this statement that we don't care more than independence, or that we're burning it, or that we're not sensitive to the suffering of our citizens. Ras and short, in relation to the issues affecting the most disadvantaged people and why we cannot serve them properly. If you want, I will not talk to you about pressure, if you want..., but you will have to admit that something affects, in a government, to have pressure or not to be able to properly deploy your full route in social commitments. I'm sure I'll admit it, that; whether I'm presumptive or not, it's not the same, okay? I'll tell you something because you see that it's not just the need to have more resources at the disposal of the disadvantaged, but the struggle we've been fighting for years – the tripartite government did it, the government of the president did it, but this government does it – because the state is fulfilling its commitments, because its failures directly affect the most vulnerable people. Fixed, before I referred to the financing of the Law of Dependency, which has gone from 50_per_cent theorical to 18_per_cent real, and which the rest assumes the Generality. Between 2012 and 2015, Catalonia has stopped collecting 336_million euros to finance the Law of Dependency, which would amount to increasing to dividit_mil, in fact, more dividit_mil residential places. Between 2010 and 2015, the Spanish Government reduced funding for social policies by 92_per_cent. And I'll tell you some concrete examples: basic social service performance, reduction 71.6_per_cent; child maltreatment– child maltreatment–, reduction is 100_per_cent; integral social investment for the Gypsy people, 61.5_per_cent less; action plan for people with disabilities, reduction of 100_per_cent; assistance to victims of gender violence, reduction in this case, but reduction, 15.3_per_cent; National drug plan, minus 60.3_per_cent; Homeholding fund for immigrants, 100_per_cent more; management of non-contributory pensions, minus 95.4_per_cent– I repeat: management of non-contributory pensions, which justly affects a layer of the very vulnerable population, minus 95.4_per_cent less; I can also remind you of the destination of 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF, and I remind you of 0.7 because in this case it is precisely where there are accumulated, the judgment of the Constitutional Court – that court that we only have to obey some–, the judgments of the Constitutional Court that say that this is an action to be done in Catalonia, and with the non-management represents that Catalonia has stopped collecting 56_million euros in the last three years, that we have paid Catalans, not that they pay..., that we have paid Catalans, that we have marked the creueta and that they do not come here for the management of social projects, because there is the rule that you say that you can only accept those entities that have projects, programs from abroad. This is a reality, this is not an opinion; it is a reality of all these years of concord, of pact, of us states, of giving support to one government, to another, to hope; of hoping that things miraculously, for some reason that they get to know each other, can come to change, and then yes, what you say, and that you have everything..., I thank him for saying it, that Catalonia is, has been and will be a born, can be recognized as such. Especially in what? , not in literature, in fetuses, in practice. And that didn't happen. And there's no constitutional reform on the table... It's more, I've asked directly to all political leaders, whether they were willing to recognize Catalonia as a nation. None, which I said. Therefore, you are also proposing an impossible one. But, in change, it's good not to give up, and I appreciate it very much, and it's more in the coherence and tradition of Catalan socialism. Therefore, do not say that, in the end, we have to rely only on those questions that we already know, from the outset, that they will agree. Home, so... come on, it's not a negotiation, it's a full return. On the premise, well, a comment I hope that..., I'm sure it didn't mean that, but that's a party that wasn't invited to, man, the premise isn't a party, that doesn't mean that an elected Member of Parliament in Catalonia hopes to be invited to participate in it, is his obligation, huh? And, therefore, if this is somehow the excuse for which your group decided not to pedal in favor of the premise, then, look, we'll fix it, we'll make a formal invitation and you can feel invited. But I think that when a man sits in this room, when he goes up to occupy an escho, he feels concerned about everything that the government does, the opposition, and he has to be acting in consequence, not waiting for us to, let us say, put red captivating him to come and negotiate some assumptions that, I insist, is our obligation to do. Of course the reference has problems, I didn't hide them yesterday, we know them perfectly; of course you have them. And here surely there is the refusal on the part of the State, because they know it's difficult, to see if we wish it, but we don't reject it – we don't reject it. And about which is the perception that some of you have about the reference, let's just say, since you quoted Mr. Requejo, the one who actually..., the reality of his statement, to contextualize it in the real context, it wasn't because someone thought that when you read those statements you wanted to make believe that Mr. Requejo gave something different. Says: "Look, democracy..., in a way, you say, "If you can't make a pre-empted reference to the nature of the pact, like those of Canada and the United Kingdom, you must act in another way; first you must proceed to a proclamation of independence – do you agree with this, Mr. Iceta? – "When you are prepared to endure it and develop it – state structures, preparation of the right laws –," and then you can opt for a validation referral or directly for some constituent elections, which is exactly what I said yesterday, Mr. Iceta. [[Greetings.]] « Preparations, state structures, legislative package and reference. And we don't despise what is a line of consensus, also in the world of people watching from the academy, which can represent making a reference. You, who say: "We must be able to sum up – to sum up – and to put more people... I will read some data from the CEO about where the largest number of people is gathered, but can I say exactly, the federal proposal, to whom does it add? You said..., you asked a question, but it is already answered; you say: "I would love to know what social support federalism has. But if we saw him, we saw him on September 27th, we saw him elect him again. No, no, don't get away from this analysis! Or don't you count those who vote for the citizens of Catalonia? And it only counts when – that day yes – the majority population, that day the Catalan people want to be federal. Federalism has been proposed with all legitimacy, it is a proposal as legitimate as independence, or as autonomy, or as regionalism; it is not less legitimate, of course not. And you proposed it, and you absolutely respect them continuing to propose the federal proposal, but it went through the polls. And it's not that I haven't won, it's that she's been losing support. And where he went preaching – Basque Country, Galicia, recently – it's not that he won followers, it's not that he added more people around, they didn't generate this cohesion that you said he should give. In change, where is the cohesion in this country? And they're not party data, from the Centre d'Etudes d'Opinion. When you ask... – after that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no..., it's not a..., it's an opinion study center, which when it suits you, they serve for data that are not favorable to the government. And there is no study of opinion – which, moreover, are made with scientific and solvent and transparent criteria – to please, no. Many times he said a given... for example, in 2006, do you know what he was saying? That only 13.9_per_cent of Catalans wanted an independent state; in change, now it turns out that the favorables are a 47.7 against the 42.4 that does not want it. But do you know where the bulk of the people in this country are standing up to? He says: "Speakers must obey the will of the people at all times? – question. Agreed or very agreed, 82_per_cent; disagreed, 6.4_per_cent. Says: "And in the event that you make a reference to Catalonia to decide whether it is converted into a new state of Europe, would you or would you not accept the final result, which was that? Fixi's, huh? , not to say reference granted with the State or unilateral reference, 'a reference. So, look, I wouldn't accept the result a 87,6_percent of the people. Is it a minority, or is it a majority? It's a huge majority. In this country... – beyond the borders of political parties – there is a great consensus in this country, because it is a democratic country, in which people want to vote... [[applause]] , if you want to vote various things, if you want to vote, if you want to vote, if you want to vote, if you want to vote, if you want to vote, if you want to vote, if you want [[applause persists]] - No, no, no, And so much is the català who votes 'yes, like the one who votes' no, like the one who is not going to vote. It's not a reference for making differences, it's a reference for expressing legitimate opinions. And, in this sense – as I say, and more so, when in this Parliament the possibility of asking for a given reference was also voted on – he has already seen that it was a very large majority. Therefore, it is not a matter of majorities or not. What's he saying to me? That if we were 60_per_cent the citizens who voted in some elections to the Parliament of Catalonia for independence you would agree that Catalonia was an independent state? Would you agree with the Spanish political system to respect a overwhelming majority of Catalans who voted for this? Yes or no? So, no. Therefore, it is not just a matter of majorities or not; it is a matter of whether or not to respect the decision of the people of Catalonia. Anyway, you're saying that... you're talking about the dialogue, the negotiation of the pact. It's obvious I agree, but, of course, you... if the other side doesn't want to agree what we're doing? To say again that we want to, say it, dialogue, negotiate and compromise? All right. And if the other side doesn't want to talk, negotiate the pacts, shall I say it again? How many times do we have to say it again? Because you're the one who... who gets his logic into us is in infinite empire, and we're tired of tie-ups. There is not enough – there is not enough – to mean that we need to negotiate, dialogue and compromise; we need to dialogue, negotiate and compromise. And we're here to make it happen, and we're not moving out of here. We can do this many ways, with a lot of emphasis, with various allies, but we are not moving from this idea. And somehow when the legislature comes to an end, you can find answers to some of the questions that concern you, that you think you are not capable of doing so, and that this government is working because it is absolutely possible to do so. Finally, he says: "You will not abandon your way or let the others water. I found it very well. And we do? Do we really have to give up our way? Do we have to let each other water for the others? Do we really have to give up our convictions...? , not to conviction, to a more pragmatic but very important thing, the electoral compromise with the people; for me, this is important – for me, it is very important. The electoral compromise with the people, for me, counts. Do we have to give up this in order to embrace a political proposal that has not, in the long run, obtained the support of the majority, neither here, nor Spain, nor where it proposed itself? Where are you going? Why should we do that? I don't ask you to do that. I don't ask him to become an independentist, and I don't take him back any more; I find him perfectly legitimate and he can work with everyone, from any position. But not tomorrow, to us, let us abandon – let us abandon – what is a compromise, which seems to me to have devoted a lot of effort and a lot of honesty that is clear and transparent. They won't be able to accuse anyone of cheating. No one will be able to accuse us of bringing in the ballot box and no one will be able to accuse us, even less, of being willing to lose credibility to change the status quo. Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.21.0	Thank you very much, President. There's a word from Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.22.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President, many things have come out of your intervention. Let's just start with one that's probably, we'd say, smaller in the context of this debate, but that's important, which is the subject of bressol schools. You talk about the study of the Bofill Foundation – an important study – but then you have to read everything and you have to see where the data comes from. Why was there such an increase in school places in Bressol? Because the Catalan government and the left-wing government pushed for the approval of a law for which thirty-thousand places of Bressol schools were created. [[Greetings.]] I, report or not report, reversed it on this subject contained in the assumptions, went from 147_million euros in 2009, to 71 and mig in 2013 and 0 in the 2015 assumption. And that, uh, I don't know... Jaume Bofill Foundation. Another question: I, sometimes, already -- and it's not the first time I find myself -- if you want to answer things that I haven't said, then it seems good to me. How does rhetorical recourse normally work; but has it ever listened to me to trivialize the Diada demonstrations? Did you ever listen to me say you don't have to take into account the voices of the protesters? No, no, And when I talk to you about legitimacy, listen to me, it was you who decided that the last elections were a plebiscite. You... imagine 'that we are in a country' – even so, a European country, but surely from any continent – the Government launches an initiative and says: "As they do not let us make a plebiscite, we will make some choices that work as the plebiscite. He loses, and then he's still like you haven't lost him. This doesn't get along, it doesn't get along. And that's why I was talking about legitimacy; not the legitimacy of the president, not the legitimacy of the government, not the legitimacy of the parliamentary majority: the legitimacy of the object. And I'll follow that, because I think that's it, that you're pursuing an object behind which there's not a majority of Catalans. And you will say to me: "He cheats, because we have not had any mechanism, we would say, objective, scientific, powerful, democraticly accepted to endorse it. Yes, but the ones who said the elections were plebiscites were you! I told you, from the beginning, they didn't work for this. , and what criticisms – however, made the plebiscite, is lost. And, therefore, one of the main problems that there is is precisely that I believe that there is not a majority behind. It does not mean that there are not many people, it does not mean that it is the object for which there may be more people than in other objects; but not the majority. And, uh, we saw that. More things: I didn't say that you're not worried about other things, I'd just miss it! But this is the debate about the question of trust and, therefore, about the full route. And, listen to me, you decided to negotiate the assumptions only with the CUP, the CUP failed them and couldn't approve them; but then, in change, then, they managed to make the rest of them also responsible. But I want to go into the truth of what I think you want to say: "It's very difficult for the Socialist Party to assess the assumptions of a government that has a full course diametrically opposed to ours. You're right, President. But it's just that after that we're not critical that we haven't approved any assumptions for which you... no phone call, no phone call. Recognize him, President, that it would be very difficult for him to get this support, because these assumptions have the logic of a government the political objective of which we do not share. It's been a long time since Mariano Rajoy's hurt. I lost sight of it the other day, I mean, I'm not... I'm not gonna say it. Now, do we have to install ourselves with the infinite empire? No, no. Now, do we have to skip the law? Neither do you. I quote it to you. You quoted one of my questions in the investment debate and said: "Have we foreseen the costs of placing Catalan institutions outside the law? He said, "We will not place them outside the law, Mr.Iceta! There will never be this Parliament outside the law, it will never be. But they've said it a few times before. I've told you who can say it in a state of law like the Spanish state of which Catalonia still, if it wants, in part, the Constitutional Court, which is who says whether or not you're out of the law. And I'm glad because... man, maybe he didn't see anything about the Constitutional Court, but the disappearance of the assembly is what I think... well, it helps to clarify the debate. You tell me... Dr. Requejo's interview I read it honestly and, indeed, it also says what you say. But, listen'm, RUI yes or RUI no? "I think RUI is a very loose idea, both from the political and legal point of view and from the strategic point of view. Basically, for three reasons: in the first place, because it has a legality-facility problem. You're saying that you're illegal... - you said it in Requejo, huh? , no, no..., the Constitutional Court did not say, says, as it is illegal, says, probably this time the Spanish Government will choose not to let it do, because, unlike the 9-N, there is now a new law of the Constitutional Court that allows to act against everything related to the process directly. And, second of all, the RUI has a legitimate problem. He said: "Predictably, there would be a low turnout because voters in the country would not go to vote and we would be back in a situation similar to 9-N. A participation of 30, 40_per_cent would not legitimize people the result either on an international scale, or in Catalonia. He said: "And thirdly, the RUI divides the independence movement. When they read..., they burx it, because journalists are clearly in favour of the RUI in this media, and he goes on and says: "I find that it is a proposal of adolescent policies aimed at satisfying impatient independenceists, who are a minority in Catalan society. And actually, after the quote you read, which certainly the proclamation of independence, it didn't make clear to me when it was done, because you said, "We're filling in a thread in a row," or so, as you say with a good catalade to scratch, "which we compromised. Okay. Is that what you've been compromised to? Because here we do have a declaration of independence before the elections, the constitution, the referendum. I don't take it back, I just find that the evolution of the full route, so sometimes it looks like the IBEX quotes and it's beautiful and it's soft. Now, do you have the Parliament of Catalonia right to demand a clear full route and that you endure more than a week without variations? I think so, and that is why, President, when we ask him for details, we don't do it to do it, as he used to say "cluschi," huh? The ‘cluschi, do the burxó, to bother him – to make it the ‘clusqui, she said – so, no, we do not do it for that. We did it because we want to know what to do and why some of us are very concerned – and I apologize for saying it again – because you are going to be caught up with an objective for which you do not have a majority of citizens opposed later and, moreover, because it speculates, points to the possibility that some stages of this process are outside the law. And then we won't get tired of saying it: you have very many things right, however, like ruling democratically elected, with institutions regulated by a legal framework, which can't be unfulfilled. I'm sorry. I'd like to not have him say it, because I would like to say, therefore, that I have convinced him or that, in fact, we are already on another screen. The debate on the government's management will take place in the general political debate, but I think that today, that many citizens will be a little careful, I would like you to have a clear message from the Socialist Group: we do not share your objective and therefore do not support it. We are seeing obvious risks of this full road, because later we can come up with consequences that no one says they want, but in the end some are inevitable if a government, some institutions are going out of the law. It's true that alternatives are no more meaningful. You..., it seems to me that at a certain point the expression was gone, and you say: "This is also impossible for you to ask. Well, maybe it's too hard. It is not impossible. I believe that you live to reform the Spanish Constitution, which may not be the majority. It's another thing. But lives are there. In change, who wants to put lives there where they are not, has not only enormous difficulties, but can cause the train irreparable accidents. And that's what we're gonna fit in to say. We gave him some Catalan and patriotic convictions. We did this not only in defense of the people who vote for us, but of all Catalans. That doesn't mean we're right, as you don't necessarily mean you have it. But, prudence, I think it has to be. Measure, you never have to lose. Respect, we have him. Personal trust, no reason to hold it, President. But deep political mistrust – deep. And it's not a topic, logically, personally. It's a subject that when you don't share objectives, when you consider that the means to accomplish them are highly risky, we have the obligation to say it, to signify it, effectively, with the best of the tones that a person can imagine, but not with the least firmness. We represent our constituents, but so does the city council. We think that this is a bad way, we think that the presses are bad advisors, we think that no agreements can be made on the table finally. We know that sometimes with whom we want to agree we do not want to, but we do not provide the best of excuses because we are all folded up in an impossible or infinite trap, and, moreover, we run the risk of glaring and derailing, which would be very negative, not only for which the protagonist, not only for which they follow, but for all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.23.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] The parliamentary groups have asked me to adjourn the plenary session for five minutes. So, we're done for five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.24.0	The word "Mr. Lluís Rabell", by Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Shall we ring the bell? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, as I said, five minutes, I understand that five minutes are for all the same, right? [[Long break.]] Right now, Mr. Rabell?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.25.0	All right. [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're so vague. Yes... [[The timer laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.26.0	When you want, you can start.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.27.0	All right... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.28.0	I see that this five minutes isn't for all Members and Members alike in this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.29.0	No, no, it's very complicated. [[Widow's remorse.]] It always passes; it passes to the best families, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.30.0	Because now we're wearing exactly one. Okay. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.31.0	From little to little, it fills the spades...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.32.0	Mr. Rabell, when you want to start, you can start.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.33.0	So, come on, som-hi. Thank you very much, President. Many honourable members of the Government, Members, Members, Friends and Friends who accompany us and, in general, the citizenry who listens to us, who accompanies us in this debate, which is an important debate..., and even we could say that it is a transcendent debate, because the President of the Generality is subject to a question of trust, that is to say that the continuity of his Government would be in question. This doubt, of course, seems to have vanished. The CUP, which had caused the majority of the government to thrash out by voting the challenge to the totality of the assumptions, has already announced that it would, in principle, renew its trust in President Puigdemont. Therefore, we might consider or someone might consider that the debate is settled from the outset. Would we then be in front of a simple parliamentary process? We honestly think we don't; we think we don't because we've come to a question of trust, not by chance... or that's a trivial fact, and the president said it yesterday. We arrived a few months after an accident and complicated investiture, yesterday the president also remembered it, and we arrived there because the government could not maintain its parliamentary majority unit around the most important law, which is the one of the assumptions. And this – and this is what we would like to highlight – has revealed some contradictions that are still alive and that affect all of Catalan political life. Beyond the fact that today the majority of us are able to bring this crisis back, the real question that matters to the citizenry is to say: what is the balance of the policies promoted by the government since one year ago, what is the balance of its full road and, above all, who are the perspectives that are proposed. Let us start an intense sequence of strong parliamentary moments until the end of the year; a sequence that begins today with the question of trust and which will coincide with the discussion of the new assumptions, passing through the general policy debate of the coming week. For us, who have been and are opposed to leaving your Government, you have not heard the choice you made yesterday at the CUP, when you say "if you are not willing to approve the assumptions to the Government, you do not have to vote for me the question of trust. We're going, as the football topic says, to leave and, of course, not to sign blanks. There's all the sense of the world, so we're planting these questions here and now. What does it mean that trust is broken? Why did he break? Who's the president asking for his trust? And finally, to do what exactly? It may be recalled that the conundrum of the assumptions was the colloquium of an endless succession of votes lost for the government; votes in which its majority is divided, in the plenary of Parliament and in committees. And it's that this majority of Juntes for the Yes and the CUP has been trapped in a report that life has been putting to the test. The idea that independence was playing invited to deny the social and economic conflict that crossed the country in the name of an imminent tape that would solve all the problems. And the first difficulty appeared on the same 27th of September, when the political forces that wanted to make those elections a plebiscite lost him in the terms that they themselves had planted. It has been said enough, but this problem is latent and accompanies the whole legislature. There is therefore no plebiscite mandate as it was yesterday; there is no plebiscite mandate, but there is a majority of issues and, with it, the responsibility to govern an evil society for years of crisis and austerity policies dictated by Brussels and Madrid, but also with conviction for the previous Catalan governments. Tothom recalls the extraordinary Ple on social emergence, which our parliamentary group, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, jointly promoted with the PSC, and on the compliment little satisfactory of the resolutions that we will have occasion to talk about sufficiently in the general policy debate. Polarization of renderings, growing inequalities, alarming and especially cruel poor indexities for what it does to infants, a social suffering unequivocally has injustice and violence towards women. The macroeconomic data displayed by the PP government or the indicators of the growth of the Catalan GDP that are often evoked by Mr. Junqueras in this chamber cannot hide this reality or reverse it, because there is no change in our model of production, which continues to be extremely vulnerable to the outbursts of the financial markets, because the optimistic data displayed by them are based on a painful process of internal devaluation, with loss of wages, general precariousness and poor workers and workers, and on a degraded labour market for reforms aimed at fragmenting the work and undermining the bargaining capacity of the trade unions. Thus, the most pressing social problems, the territorial imbalances or the inequities of gender have gone into place, have gone into insolently insinuating and coughing up in our debates, holding the fragile seams of the majority. May I remind you who voted what, and with whom, when, for example, he spoke about the closure of P3 lines, about the concerts with elites that secrete by sex, about the reversal of ATLL's privatisation, or about projects like Barcelona World or the taxation that applies to casinos? May I remind you how some of the soundings of the vote went, like the one that refused the ILP's admission to education? Do you have the comptability of the times in which Junts' vote for Yes was divided? Of the times when the UPC voted with the opposition of the left? On occasion, always to defend privileges of benevolent estaments, in what way has the Si gone in arm with the PP? And let me remember, because it's been written here, the Bofill report. The Bofill report has above all the fence and the hardness of checking that inequalities precisely in terms of school equipment are located and worsened by what it does to family returns and to the barrel; it is to say that there where investments have been less and have done worse it is precisely in the most depressed areas, of working families and with lower family returns. Reports, to quote them all, too, is a bit like statements. The weakness of the assumptions was very much to be seen with the rebuff of the proposals that from the left are made in tax matters, proposals that called, among other things, a reform of the inheritance tax, of the higher IRPF trams, a revision of the tax deductions. It is worth saying that they raised the need for a more progressive and distributive tax policy, especially with the aim of implementing a guaranteed income of citizenship; guaranteed income of citizenship that remains silent, yet. And if there are people – and it's logical and legitimate – who are in a hurry to settle certain fetes, we are in a very hurry to fight the poor. [[Some applause.]] The weakness of those assumptions also has a lot to see with a fact that is not because it has been mentioned can not be remembered, because, indeed, it constantly retreats to the opposition that we did not want to vote those assumptions. But that frac has to see with the fact that the assumptions are they wanted to discuss within most of the seventy-two, and so they went. They were betting on getting the support of the CUP and they didn't have it. It's not like we're invited or not to the party, we're invited to mass. And don't let it go that we didn't want to vote on the government's accounts after that. And, please, I'm no longer responsible for not being able to... be responsible, go, not being able to reduce waiting lists or not being able to attend to certain social emergencies. Look, there's also an interesting document here, which is the monthly performance report, which produces Mr. Junqueras' department, huh? , and it's the enforcement analysis of the public sector budget administered on July 31, 2016, huh? , which talks about the implementation, therefore, of the current assumption, of which it is extended, and which tells us that the Government, on 31 July, has modified the existing assumptions – the extended ones–, extending them by 1,192_million euros, 704_million in credit modifications, 423 in us credits and 65 in enlargements. Beyond the distribution of these modifications, this shows that the Government has, despite everything, an important margin of manoeuvre to deal with its responsibilities. The destabilizing effect of social problems, which we want to evoke here, places us at the mercy of the problem we want to discuss. Here, as in all Europe, poverty and inequality constitute the greatest threat to democracy. The needy crackers of daily survival, the erosion of rights and the evicted dignity expel a huge number of citizens and citizens from any political life. And this is the first and main democratic problem we have raised. We cannot imagine new quotas of self-government and national progress for Catalonia without addressing the country from a social compromise in the public policies of the Government. We cannot conceive of the democratic progress without the determined participation of these popular classes, invisible and misguided, without their strength. So I did in the past and so it was in the conquest of freedom and in the adventures so great that Catalonia has known, such as the linguistic immersion or the very restoration of the Generality, the only connection with republican legality in the troubled years of the Transition, as agitated as the Venetian movement of Barcelona fell three mayors and Catalonia was overwhelmed by general waves that claimed freedom and social rights. [[Some applause.]] Without this social force there will be no new advent to self-government, with a better share of self-government, whatever the tape we propose. Here's the reference to the breach of trust: as more impotence to respond to social emergence showed the majority, more gestures of rupture required the UPC to justify that in formed part, and as more concessions made the majority in this sense, more clearly appeared the intransigent character of the 9-N full route, simply because the settlement of a unilateral disconnection of Spain could not claim either the social force to Catalonia or the external sympathies and supports that would be necessary to pull it forward. We have said this many times: the problem is not only that it is intended to challenge the State or disobey it, but that it is intended to make statements, with legal devices of dubious viability, with structures of much or more uncertain yet financial, but, for the most part, without counting with the necessary social force, that is, turning the scale to a decisive part of the same Catalan society, which is different, which is complex. This is the reality of our birth. A substantial part of the citizenry either does not wish to break up with Spain in any way, or it would like to have a better fit without getting to separate, or, finally, has other priorities. A substantial part of our birth, therefore, would not feel called for a call without guarantees, without real debate of alternatives, without clear and homologated standards; a call perceived as predetermined in its outcome and full of uncertainties for which it makes its hypothetical application. What was the reason for yesterday, the President's appearance, with the reference or reference. Say hello to us, huh? , which manifests the determination for the celebration of a referendum that we share as an objective, but counts, that a fixed date or the presses do not end up distorting the deep democratic content of the objective, of the convocation. But before you allow it to be pointed out, before you talk about the reference. Look, we have always been very clear in defending the freedoms and the Catalan institutions. Since the principle we have denounced the PP government's temptives to criminalize sovereign claims, to hard to a judicial and criminal way a conflict that requires a political and dialogueal approach and the tempency to transform the Constitutional Court into a force of shock to the service of the Spanish executive. All this we have denounced and we are continuing to denounce and, in this sense, we have done so, passed to Mr. Homs, before Mr. But, to Mr. Rigau, to Mrs. Joana Ortega, tomorrow and when I come to the President of this Parliament and to the Bureau of this Parliament. Also, we need to warn some of the voices that have felt lately and that they seem to want to play a tensile strategy menu. "We challenge the State to provoke its angry reaction, even its repression, and so we mobilize the people of Catalonia, outraged, in favor of independence. And even a lot of those who don't want it are forced to line up against the Spanish government's authoritarian move. Some may think that this can work, others may think that it would be a good growth strategy, confident to put your hand on time, but we call for everyone's responsibility. Believe me, the historical experience has shown it: like worse, worse. We think it's time to get past immobilism, but also to refuse any runaways ahead. It's time to weave, build a winning sovereignist strategy. President, it seemed to us very interesting and positive that you raised yesterday the proposal to claim a reference agreed with the State that you saw to the city of Catalonia. Here's an idea that we never stop defending. Let us think all the contrary, that his abandonment for a whole period of time, in being declared a last screen, has made, instead of strengthening him, the camp of national democratic demand. Indeed, this could be the point of finding a very large majority of Catalan society, of this 80_percent of our citizenship that feels deeply dissatisfied with the current status quo and is in favour of what has been called the right to decide and which, beyond legal or semantic debates, refers to democracy and ultimately to the self-determination of a nation. A consultation, following international standards, recognized for everyone. This could be the point of finding among all the sensitivities desirous of unravelling the conflict. Even those who are not now supporters of a referendum and who are willing to adopt a constitutional reform should accept the democratic legitimacy and character of the proposal. The pronouncement of our society, we are not convinced, will end up being insecure. The citizens of Catalonia will have to be able to vote either late or late. On the other hand, those who really want the independence of Catalonia should be the first to be interested in seeking an alliance with other forces to generate a favorable scene of democratic decision, because only then, in a scene of shared democratic decision, the option of independence can gain the color of a sufficient majority and the recognition of everyone. There's no reason. In the proposal for a reference we find ourselves, President, but we must be clear. If we really think this is the best democratic way out of the conflict, we need to work seriously to make it possible. If we believe the proposal, as it is not only a demand of the Government of the Generalitat, but the assimilation demand of the Catalan civil society. Cal bastir un_marc ample de trobada entre syndicats, vénal movements, col·legis professionales, monde de la culture, universitatats, entitats diverse. It will be necessary to discuss a strategy of mobilization in favour of consultation, and it will be necessary to work together, to step up the proposal, to win the battle of public opinion. The one who would not be eligible to act in such a way as to ensure that the old-fashioned rebroadcaster can re-enact the song that "with Spain there is nothing to do. We want a useful reference, which has legal and political effects, and this depends on its acceptance by all parties involved and by the conjunction of the Catalan society, and not just on the one that wants independence; this depends on the recognition of the consultation by the European Union and the international community, and this depends, above all, on the massive participation of the citizenry. And this requirement of an effective, recognizable reference, a reference with all the guarantees is valid, this requirement, so much if the reference is for March 20, for September 15 as for the day of the Mercè. This is a requirement that has no expiration date. Things change to build strong correlations and favorable scenes. We already know that the achievement of a reference is difficult, very difficult, but while we do not lend enough strength to achieve it, much more remote and inverse is still the possibility of relaxing independence by another way. Only at the intersection of the right to decide is it possible to build a social majority able to change the current situation of democratic blockade. It is only from the point of view of public policy that it is possible to give cohesion and commitment to this social majority to social and environmental justice. This is the living, concrete, dynamic articulation between national rights and social progress that we claim from our tradition, the popular Catalanism of the left, and that the demand of the reference places more than ever on the order of the day. We are, therefore, defunctly arguing about paths that are supposed to be direct or impossible; we are defunct of the harms that divide them, because the Catalan nation is different, but we are also defunct of the harms that they suffer from them: "Spain is irreformable. Spanish will never change... how many times have we heard in this room these sentences? All the countries of the world have known many transformations, various forms of state, different regimes and governments. Spain and Catalonia are not an illustrative immobile of a European civilization in crisis. There is no eternal Spain faced today, as three centuries ago, with a Catalonia like itself since the time of Jaume I. Spain is changing. Yesterday you said to us, president, saddened by what the federal cider called the object of Pedro Sánchez for wanting to start a dialogue with the Catalan sovereignist forces. Allow 'em to say that, more than saddened, as the person of the left and as the democrat, I feel struck and outraged before what is working as a window of time in the PSOE itself, promoted from the great economic and media powers to block the step to a possible progressive government. [[Some applause.]] Millions of people in the state, working people, young people, women, pensioners don't deserve to have to endure another mandate from Mariano Rajoy. From this point of view, we make it perfectly clear: if there is the opportunity to favor and promote a progressive government, a government of change presided over by Pedro Sánchez, led by the PSOE in Madrid, all efforts must be made so that this is possible. We know that the difficulties will be many and the limitations too, but I believe that Catalonia would gain much more by debating its demands, discussing, at last, what Pedro Sánchez disagrees with with a dialogue government, that it would not face a wall of cement as would be a renewed government of the P.P. fiercely anti-Catalanist. But this very virulence of the establishment shows up to what point the situation is changing in Spain, and that this situation changes, as in the years of the transition, has much to see with the democratic demands of the Catalan civil society, and at the same time, as did the case of others, these are not alien to the movements that are produced in the Spanish society itself. The Constitutional Court's ruling on the Statute attested to the rupture of a certain territorial pact and the exhaustion of the State's autonomy, but less than a year later, the 15-M announced the State's breach of the great social consensus of the transition. All the social elements will find themselves confronted with a cruel reality that denies the promise of certain standards that are supposed to be well-being: a fall in wages, a hard time, young people sentenced to exile, middle classes saying that the poor tricked also at the door of their home... A situation in which corruption became visible, unbearable, and the inherited political architecture of the transition was irremovably touched. The general waves, the tides, the struggles in defense of public health and services, the mobilizations against LOMCE or in defense of the civil rights that have marked these years are not in absolute alien to the democratic challenge raised by Catalan society. The new political geography that emerged from the last general elections, but also from the elections that we have seen these days, this last diumenge, in Euskadi and Galicia, show that the changes that are taking place in the depth of the Spanish society are seeking, by successive storms, a political expression of their own. The great traditional parties wear out, the absolute majorities break down and break up new formations, some of which represent our Companions of Pode and the confluences that accompany them, supported by millions of votes that do not only impugnate neoliberalism failed and the corrupt governance of the right, but also make a flag of Spain's plurinational reality. And that's a change. [[Some applause.]] This represents an extraordinary change in relation to the last decades, but it represents, above all, the announcement of our time. All this has resulted, today, in an unprecedented political crisis, blocking the formation of a new government in Spain. Catalonia is the heart of this crisis. The anti-Catalanist demagoguery of the PP, which has been for years its great source of commerce, is now decisive to try to preserve power. It is no accident, therefore, that the offensive to dislodge the PSOE when its leading team targeted the Basque and Catalan parties looking for support to set up an alternative. This crisis of the PSOE – which today headlines – seems to lengthen possible dialog scenes, it is certain, and seems to announce a confrontation if, in one way or another, the PP ended up preserving the Government of the State. But in any case, all the scenes will be of instability; no one will be able to rule Spain without giving an answer to the democratic challenge posed by Catalonia, no one. Catalonia and Spain are, today, more interconnected than ever. It is time to weave complicitys and we are determined to contribute with all our strength. The Catalan problem is already at the heart of Spain's governance crisis. Now, Catalonia must remain in the heart of all these people who share with us the same longings for social progress and freedom. This also forms part of the challenge and struggle to get a reference. Well, president, we listened yesterday to your full route and the inflections you've introduced. I think I have clearly explained where we see points of contact, with the idea and the demand of a reference that we believe in and that we formulate it in terms of referring with guarantees or referring with guarantees, yes or yes; referring to recognized, yes or yes; referring to acquiescing the consent of the Catalan society, yes or yes. These are the real alternatives, huh? , because we think and insist that any derailment towards a unilateral path would weaken the democratic movement and the demand of Catalonia. We would like to remind him of what more than once he said to us..., he said to Catalonia, as you know council, if you can say so, the Alex Salmond, who has advised to work with insistence, with perseverance and without letting himself suffer by the press. Presses are bad consellers but, above all, presses, sometimes, advise misguided policies. And that's what we're talking about right now: what sovereignist strategy can unravel this situation and take us to a scene where Catalonia's democratic rights can be used, and not to an infinite blockade or rampage situation, as I said before. I think I have exposed, therefore, these intersections and our deep disagreements, which they have to do with governance, with orientation, with policies that have been followed by the majority and that have been followed by their government. All this, therefore, refers to the governance of the Generalitat does not change, in this debate of confidence, our condition of opposition of the left to the execution that you encapsulate it and, in this sense, it will not be a surprise that our vote remains denied to the question of trust and in the terms in which it arose. Roman, for us, too uncertain. We still don't know, for example, about the assumptions, even if you mention them, the first indications that seem to appear, so worry us and, as you say to the beginning, we can't sign blank. Allow them to subrate, also, something that is important to us in this debate and that would only justify this fact that this debate is produced, and that is that we are really sensitive to the modulations of his speech in the measure that make possible spaces of understanding. We ask you, President, to explore them, to explore them in a loyal way. We have before us a general policy debate, and we will soon have this debate of assumptions, which concerns us, which will certainly be difficult, but we will have it, and we have a European political situation, complex Spain, full of challenges and uncertainties, before which the Catalan Parliament will also have to take the word. We think that if the Catalonian Parliament is a _marc of dialogue, democratic confrontation, country strategies, that's good news. Beyond our vote, which is a necessary tax, know, president, that we appreciate the effort to open this dialog that you made at yesterday's presentation. So let's keep going. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.34.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.35.0	Well, good morning again. Mr. Rabell, thank you very much for your intervention, and thank you for all of it. That's right. You made the beginning of your intervention a description of yesterday's and today's act: it's a transcendent fact, and it's exactly like that. I devoted a few initial minutes of my intervention yesterday to focusing on something because it was transcendent at this time, to understand that we were all asked to a debate that is not..., you said "parliamentary process, and I agree. And, therefore, it is worth all of us – you have done it today, and I believe that all groups have done it too – to get this debate out of the predictability of a further deal. It's not – it's not. Because, in the end, a government without a majority can emerge from here, and therefore a government ceased, or a strengthened government, and therefore more legitimate, still, if calia, because it will have passed a hard test to culminate its plan of government, already approved for this Parliament. You say something I agree with, and I obviously can't address the same message that I can address to those we have signed a parliamentary stabilisation commitment. He says they want to go away without signing blanks. Totally fine. And if he's willing to play games, we're going to play the game. And, of course, I do not ask, nor do I ask anyone, for an indestructible adherence to policies that require a deployment. We shall see to the general policy debate of the week in which you see, that all this which forms part of the government programme must be combined and that which forms part of the resolutions approved by this Parliament must be translated into assumptions. And then we'll see if all this effort we've made to equip the country with a thread in which all parliamentary groups express this support and this concern for the citizens..., if this can actually thrive or cannot thrive with assumptions that wander in this direction. So far, we are fulfilling what we believe to be the satisfactory compliment of our plan of government. Also in the conclusions of the Plenum of the Poor, in which we have a high degree of compliment. Even so, because it is so, without having the indispensable tool of the assumptions. Of course, things can be done on a presuppositional basis. God's looking at me, he can't do it. We can't do it again. Therefore, it is obvious that our responsibility was to, despite not having any presupposition, explore as much as possible what we could give of ourselves as an extension. But it's not enough – it's not enough. They can't do good politics, with a presuppositional prorogation. We can do a lot, let's say, in relation to what the extension mark allows. And we have done so, and we will spare no effort to arrive until we squeeze as a lemon all the margin that gives us a presuppositional extension. It's our obligation! You have said this; I believe that with your words you acknowledge that we have not remained folded with arms simply lamenting, that we have right, that we have no presumption. Because we know, and you know, what's the effect on the city that we don't have a premise. Not the little girl, that effect, because it's a big effect. And I made him a list. It might have been a lot longer, but I decided there wasn't enough of a very precise key to know what it meant to have no presuppositions. You're proposing something that I think we're all agreed on, and we haven't moved from here, which is a compromise with people's participation. I agree. And that means participatory process, that means always listening to the people's voice, that means making every effort so that people can always decide with their vote what happens in the country. That's it, we haven't moved here, and it's the wish that most Catalans have. And it speaks concretely of a shared sovereignist strategy. All right, let's make a shared, sovereignist strategy. And you're still asking for more. Says: "As long as it is a demand of civil society, it is a cross-cutting demand. Okay. And I think that in the next few months we have to believe it with all its roundness and that we have to seek all the spaces of these countries – I mean we are not limited only to parliamentary approvals, but we have to search all the spaces of this country, citizens and institutions – to adhere to this idea. Because the more credential she is and the more support she has, the stronger she will have before those who have to listen to her. There's an opportunity to do it. I have already committed myself, and I am convinced that in this sense we will find ourselves and that this work of collecting cross-sectional and very broad accessions, a strategy in favor of this shared sovereign majority, will have a clear result. But when we prove that despite this, that we get it, nothing happens either, when we prove that despite that we have done this to this country no one listens to it to the other band, we need to think about what we're going to do. Because it seems to me that it's not a waste, and you don't ask it, and I thank them, that people come home and say, "Well, look, like this isn't possible," and it wasn't for the fortnight we've asked for it, and we'd ask it fifteen times more."What we have to do is wait, see if there's a possibility of change. Well, that might have some logic if we saw the switch up. But it's that the change goes away without ever getting there, already. Because if we go to the election, we go to the election, and if we see the moves, and you describe them... Certainly, I don't know if you and I, between yesterday and today, have helped Mr. Pedro Sánchez, because he praises those who, between comets, respect him we have addressed..., I don't know whether we have complicated his life more or not. But in any case what will be – what will be – is not exactly a government in the line you describe. It is clear that if there is a government there will be a government of the hard-core, frontist–frontist– against precisely what is the desire of Catalans, against precisely the idea of a referendum, even though it comes approved for 80_percent of the citizenship of this country. And so, as I said, if there was a change option, well, what we see is that this change, at the moment, is more quickly moving away and not articulating. Now, I'm going back to saying the same thing I said yesterday: does that mean we have to rule out the idea? We won't rule it out. It's more like it's never gonna expire. It's more: that's what Junts' full route to the Yes explicitly says. It remains in force, the proposal of the referendum. Because we don't have to run away from a Spanish political leader who has a heart. I believe that if there is a Spanish leader who has courage, a Spanish political force who has courage, to deal with this reform, we have to cost him. I can't make it clear. But this courage of the moment is not there. There could be, and I'm sure there are people who in their intimacy think this probably has to be this way. But it's not there. Therefore, neither can we ask for white cheques, to us, nor indestructible accessions. Here we all have to play – we all have to play. And if it's played game we'll play game. And if there is a government, I insist, that the president of the heart, that the president is willing to reach political agreements to make possible the desire of a vast majority of people in this country, we are, in this strategy. And everything I've led to this strategy too. And I think that today, the debate on general policy, the debate on assumptions and everything that has to come from here until July, that things have to come, because things will happen, I think that it is a way that allows us to get closer to the final objective, which is the objective that the citizens of Catalonia can vote for. At the time of the culmination of the legislature, with the culmination of the laws, you have already credited what you, with good certainty, quoted from Mr. Alex Salmond, perseverance..., go, the perseverance of five years followed by mobilizing millions of people around the idea of independence, and even more so in such an exemplary way, I believe that, as at least in Europe, it is quite insurmountable. I'd say so. And, therefore, I believe that we have already believed this perseverance. Then some ask us: "No, let there be a demand sustained in time... Carai! , more subdued in the time that I see it difficult. So, when the moment comes, that hour that is not of fear, but that hour of hope that Parliament's eyes will be open to the new stage, at that time, many opportunities have passed because the Spanish State, the Spanish State in its conjunction, has demonstrated whether or not it wants to participate in a change in which Catalonia is a relevant actor. I agree, don't I? It's not possible to do politics... It's more: it's not possible to get out of the crisis in Catalonia in Spain. It's not pot. But they're on a scale in Catalonia – they're on a scale in Catalonia. Therefore, when that moment has arrived, we, in compliment of the democratic mandate, must make decisions with consistency, as I announced yesterday. And we must go to a validation through a system of participation in which most citizens are pronounced. And, obviously, the results manage – the results manage – and the results can't be given for preconceptions from a parliament, and the results are the ones that will mark the people, who with their vote will decide whether the reference is valid or not. Clearly, it can't be. It is the people, who will decide whether the reference is valid or not. But if people decide that the reference is valid, I think what we need to do is accept the people's verdict and get us to work. And we don't have to be able to recreate until we get to that moment, that we haven't exhausted all the possibilities we've had to get to what's a wish of the majority, it's also in the Full Route of Together for the Yes: a reference granted to the State. I insist: it is to the State in its conjunction that I make this call, and I am pleased that in this sense you and I, you and we, agree and that this can open the door to possible agreements. I don't think they're still in parliamentary office, that I've already made it clear that you're not here. But I think I can also deduce a willingness to get there where we know we are. Because we have identified that the beneficiaries of this sum is not a flag, it is not a country, but they are the citizens, which is why we are doing this process towards independence: because the city can live much better than they see now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.36.0	There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.37.0	Thank you very much, President; thank you very much, President. I would give it to the beginning, or I would give it to him during the intervention: it is not trivial, nor the debate about the question of trust or the fact that this debate serves to open discussions and dialogues that I think were necessary, huh? I think they were necessary, and I told him that it seems to me that it is good news that the Parliament debated strategies to get out of the sugar in which the country lives. I don't think we need to worry about much that we have different strategies and different visions. Here's the grace of it. It's just that the debate allows you to find intersections, as it used to say, operational. The proposal of a reference to us seems to us to be a good proposal that allows us to work, provided, as I said before, that we believe we should and that we should be able to generate the necessary conditions so that this is possible, because this can be done forward. Because I told him there was a very easy tempt, didn't I? To ask for something else that we already know they'll tell us not to justify another thing. No, no; if we believe it, we go to a serious battle to get it. They already know the situation is complicated, in Spain. A lot of times we talk about disconnection, but if you don't, in this Parliament, since yesterday's debate began, we're all up to date on what happens in Madrid, huh? As Madrid pretends not to make a big deal out of what you said here, but in the skirmishes where it is decided that they did follow what we discussed here, huh? Then, this interconnection makes sure that it's very real. They're all hanging from each other. And not by chance. Because, effectively, Catalonia is the problem – it is the problem – of Spanish governance at this time. It's the problem. If there is not the Catalan problem, the nickname "Catalian problem, which is not a problem, nor is it a question, nor is it a territorial tension, is a nation... The difficulty is to verbalize this. The first difficulty is to verbalize this. But if you didn't have this catal problem, the governance problem in Spain would probably have been solved. It'd be settled, probably. In one sense or another. But the big one is this. And that's why? So, because this rise and this social and political crisis that is taking place in Spain has an expression in Catalonia combined with a democratic historical demand. This is the situation we have. But this bond is very important that we don't lose sight of it, because one node the other – one node the other. The mobilizations that we have given to Spain over the last few years against the Rajoy government, which have configured this new Parliament, chaotic yet and disordered and which is a first stage, but where there are already millions of votes that represent the recognition of the multi-national reality of Spain and that demand it – and that demand it – are not banality. It's a historic change for the last thirty years. And it is the beginning of a deeper change that indicates that, simply, the inherited architecture of the Transition will not be able to go forward – it will not be able to go forward – and that this will end, in the course of some years, by reconfiguring itself in one sense or another, in a positive, democratic sense, with a reconfiguration of Spain in a sense that recognizes this multi-nationality and resolves it in one way or another, or with a regression. That's also in the timing of possibles, huh? And in those cases we no longer think that Catalonia would be saved or that it would find a path of happiness or independence if there was a setback, an anti-democratic regression to all of Spain, huh? Don't think about it – don't think about it. I believe that the best bet for Catalonia's national rights is the one that seeks complicity, and profound complicity, with the Spanish democratic society, the democratic movements of the Spanish society. And the theme of the reference allows it; this idea, this struggle for the reference, allows us to establish this dialog, because it poses it in democratic terms, in terms that the Spanish society can hear and listen to. The problem that we always criticize, of unilaterality, that you didn't learn yesterday in his speech, I think, didn't learn it..., and it's also what plans a little bit about the discussion, huh? Because it's finally this: "If this doesn't come up, let's pull for the right. But the problem is not wanting to pull for the right because it failed one thing, it's to have social conditions, social strength and recognition to be able to do it. Because, of course, it's talking, I find, and it's part..., it's not today's main discussion, you've talked about the whole subject of this intersection that we can work on; but, of course, when we talk about certain things, it's talking to a leugeress, with peace of mind, independence, as if it were an easy disconnection, and no one explains what we would do, for example, with the 75,000_million public debt, how it would be managed, or how we would simply move... The paper is holding on to it all, huh? , we can write many things; but build a tax agency, build a social security system, build the strides of a state from failed public accounts, that's what they explain to us – that's what they explain to us. A certain path to independence conceived in these terms is more akin to the situation of a country that would fall into a very large defence situation before the funded markets and before the big corporations. That's to say we could be, in this independent way, with a dependency and a much more important loss of sobrieties. So, we were discussing things, when the time came, with seriousness and touching from little to little. That doesn't make it clear that this discussion is open. And I don't intend to convince you right now... I am a federalist culture and tradition and I think that the national sovereignties and rights of the Catalan nation can be conquered and have their fullness in a system that contemplates a national recognition, a powerful self-government and, at the same time, shared sovereignties with the rest of Spain's peoples. Okay. But now we won't convince each other..., it's not here, it's not the time to put one project or another in our faces. We'll discuss them in the light of what life has been up to. Then, I propose, President, that we begin to move, that we begin to move if we understand that there are different opinions, models and perspectives, that they are legitimate in the democratic sphere, that they are to be tested for events, in the fire of events; we don't tank doors, we don't tank possibilities, and, also, we generate the conditions in which citizenship can "take over, as you say, expression really much used and reused, but we already understand what it means: take the word, dominate the political scene, impose and propose its own perspectives. And that's what's gonna change the situation. We insist – and end this – on this dialectic that we have not just resolved. Because it's true that we're talking about the reference now, and that's the subject that you asked about yesterday at the top of the table. So let us not forget that we arrive at this debate on the question of trust after having gone through a whole series of difficult-to-manage proposals. Here we speak..., there is the resolution of the 9-N, which became the full road, which in the end seems to be not; we have had the sound of discussion about the conclusions of the Commission of the Constituent Process, which proposed to us, too, a sequence of events also difficult to make a constitution, with a participatory process that seemed thought because it only participated those who wanted a certain conclusion; that we had to advance in independence and then make a constitution; that there was to be an assembly they did not know how to overthrow or disband the Parliament of Catalonia... That is to say that they generated a complicated invention, eh? Fortunately, this, let us say, I do not know if it has given up, but it is left to the arsenal of inventions and the imagination that these months have brought to fruition in us seems cautious, and that we are beginning to work on an operational proposal, on people of different perspectives – independentists, federalists, autonomists and people who want to delve into this situation – there can be found, here, yes, here that we can work, and we are going to order and direct the discussions as a result of a real movement of Catalan civil society, in favor of its democratic demands. And I end this, which is how my intervention began: I always understand that there is a social problem in the table. We make a permanent insistence, because there are thousands and thousands of families to whom these debates that we are having pass through the head's side, and pass through the head's side because they are open for the needy of daily survival. We must realise that poverty and inequality are the main problem of political democracies throughout Europe, and at our home as well. And if this is not present and does not go through all our actions, disarrayedly, we will never achieve social cohesion or the immensity necessary to achieve nine shares of self-government, and still less – if anyone has this perspective – a new Catalan republic. Therefore, we never lose sight of it, and this will be the feeling of the discussions that we will have on our own weeks in general policy debates and in debate of assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.38.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. There's the president's word. Do you want to use it or not? [[Pause.]] So, according to schedule, the session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspended at a quarter of a half and two minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon. She chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary-General in office and the Frenchc Pau and Vall.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.39.0	It's part of the session. Too late for everyone. Next, has the words of Mr Xavier García Albiol, president of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Party of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.40.0	Madam President... Mr President, Members, Members of Parliament... yesterday the members of the People's Party of Catalonia, we listened very carefully to your speech. And, Mr. Puigdemont, we have to admit that yesterday you did not disappoint your followers. It's the truth. Yesterday you had that ability that you have shown over the past year to be able to create new stories, to be able to create new episodes as if it were those television series that last months and months and months, and that when the attention of the viewer goes down they need to create new incentives to regain the attention they have lost. Yesterday, after listening to it during that hour and a little..., and a few more minutes that he used, I have to admit that he had the ability to create a new element, to create a new attention, as I say to him, unique and exclusively for all those people who follow him, for all that parish that agrees with the postulates that you defend. What is happening, that, listening to your speech and the replies you have made today, I have to tell you that it has become quite clear that the President of the Generalitat, that the President of Catalonia has abandoned reason in politics to devote himself to an irrational activity based exclusively on excite the feelings of a part of the population. Yesterday you presented us here in a very solemn way to ask us not the confidence of Parliament, but to pay, and I tell you very clearly, Mr Puigdemont, a penance to your members of the CUP. The question of trust is a mechanism created for exceptional situations, a mechanism for when government crises occur. No government, neither of the European Union nor of any advanced democracy, has the occurrence of calling a question of deferred trust, a question of confidence four months from now. Summoning a question of trust is part of that story that I have just explained to you that you necessarily need to have created to try to maintain and to try to have tense a part of the population. Therefore, for us, without a doubt, the question of confidence that you presented yesterday in this House is another episode of the spurt in which Catalan politics has become thanks to you. This question of confidence that we are celebrating, which was celebrated yesterday and which we are celebrating today, is a great farce of the independenceist political parties, which do not know how to govern – and then I will refer to... – and do not have real solutions to the real problems that they have, that we have Catalans. Yesterday, during your speech, Mr Puigdemont, you said: "I am looking for a chain of confidence. Moreover, he said in plural: "I'm looking for chains of trust. You pointed it out that way. And my question, Mr Puigdemont, is: why do you ask us, you, trust? , to proclaim or to hold an agreed referendum? , to hold an unagreed referendum? to hold a unilateral referendum on independence? to carry out a unilateral declaration of independence? Honestly, I have to tell you that you don't even know it. Yesterday, you did not explain, contrary to what has been said here, by some of the Members who spoke this morning yesterday, you here did not explain your road map. And you didn't explain your road map yesterday because you don't have it; the improvisation in government action is absolute: you go from the break declared in this Parliament on November 9th – using your terminology: break in this Parliament – to go back to the exit box to ask for a referendum. Mr. Puigdemont, you're the director of a big circus. And worst of all: today he is using Catalonia to put it at the service of the CUP. You, as President of the Generalitat, like Mr Artur Mas, will pass to history, but you will pass to history by dividing the Catalan society, by being the president only of a part of the Catalans, by being the president of those 2_million Catalans who believe in independence, but who leaves aside those 5_million men and women who also feel Catalans but we also feel Spanish, each with their matilisations and each, therefore, with their concrete feelings; we are left aside because we do not participate in their adventure. Today you will gain this question of trust, but we are the Catalans who lose. Some say he's been kidnapped by the CUP. That's not true; Mr. Puigdemont, you're from the CUP. [[Rialles.]] You, Mr. Puigdemont, are from the CUP. [[Greetings.]] You, Mr. Puigdemont, think, feel and act like the CUP. And you know what I'm gonna tell you? That it will be shown, within a few hours, that it is alone; it will be shown that it is unable to understand itself with anyone. The great problem that we Catalans have is that there is a president of the Generalitat that cannot be understood with the rest of the political parties. It is a problem for you, but it is also a problem for Catalans. His only allies, as he pointed out, are the Members of the CUP. [[The orator shows the camera a photograph.]] These, Mr. Puigdemont, are your only allies. These and Mr. Otegi. The ones with the lighter and the gasoline. [[Some applause.]] These are the only allies. These, which cause the burning of flags of two countries of the European Union and of the European Union itself, are the only ones, Mr Puigdemont, who are going to trust you today. This, as I say, is a problem for you but especially a problem for Catalonia. As the saying goes, tell me who you're with and I'll tell you who you are. For not having, Mr Puigdemont, you do not have the support of the Basque Nationalist Party. You have not asked yourself, Mr Puigdemont, and especially the Members of Convergence..., well, they are no longer Members of Convergence..., nor are they Members of the Catalan Democratic Party, nor do they seem to be Members of the European Catalan Democratic Party. They'll hardly be able to build a country if they're not capable of having a name like the political party; it's complicated, huh? That's complicated. [[Some applause.]] We can hardly pull into a country if we're not able to keep the name as the political party. But, li deia..., Mr Puigdemont, have you not wondered how it is possible that two parties that until not long ago were similar, Basque Nationalist Party and Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, one, the Basque Nationalist Party, which has renounced the breakup, is advancing electorally, and Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, which has renounced moderation and has bet on radicality, is going the way of intra-censorship? Didn't you ask him, Mr. Puigdemont? Have you not been asked, ladies and gentlemen of Convergence? Mr Puigdemont, I would like to ask you, and I would like you to reply in a concrete way: what kind of society do you intend to build with those who want to carry liberal democracy? What kind of society do they claim to have in Catalonia with those who claim to be anti-capitalists and anti-systems, with those who want to build the Bolivarian Republic of Catalonia? Your travel companies, Mr Puigdemont, fly us out of the European Union. We can go over it, look at the programme of the CUP, look at the programme of its governing partners, look at the programme of those who are the only ones who are expected to support it, see what their doctrine is: « The CUP – and I read it textually – « Call Constituent refuse to form part of the European Union, the euro and the euro army. In terms of economics, the CUP said..., and literally, and especially in terms of the idea of this political formation, Mr. Busqueta, in terms of economics, said..., admitted that he planned a corralite scener in an independent Catalonia, that I stopped paying the debt that they considered illegitimate, and, if not, wish five decades of austerity; they think that this tense and conflict situation as it was given to Greece might be likely. That's not said by the People's Party, that's said by the Economic Idea of the CUP and can be found in the Ara Diary of the 18th of the 9th of 2015. If we are not going to talk about international politics, which, therefore, has also come out at the length of this debate, and I am especially sure that it will interest Mr Romeva, the election program of the CUP says very clearly: "We will aim to establish as a priority of our international solidarity the following countries – attention, priorities; the priorities of the CUP, the priorities of the governing partners of Mr Puigdemont – : « Venezçuela... [[remorse of the voice]] , "Cuba... [[remorse of the voice]] "Paysos de l'Alba... [[remorse of the voice]] , « the Sahara... [[remorse of the voice]] "Palestine... [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.41.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.42.0	... « Kurdistan... [[remorse of the voice]] « and Euskal Herria. These are the priorities of international policy. No, Mr. Puigdemont, you don't do that with your head. I'm taking over your partners' program... and look at it. And in the field of social policy, attention, attention to the data. The CUP bets because the family model of the members..., the CUP bets because the family model of its members, having children in the family, converts people into more conservatives. What doesn't explain the CUP is how it converts people when they're raised by the tribe. That doesn't explain it. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] But their governing partners do have a very concrete model of society, and with these they are the ones you want to go hand in hand and bring Catalonia we don't know where. It is obvious that with these travel companies, Mr Puigdemont, nothing can be built. But the guilt, and I say it with all sincerity and seriousness, is not the UPC, that they are what they are. [[remorse of the voice]] , the fault is yours; the fault is the convergent elites who have soon given up defending a political centrality– do they remember, from the palar? – and a model of liberal society to sell'sal Gouvernement de la CUP. That's what the truthors are responsible for. Today, and speaking of the prestige of the institutions, you are putting the future of the government in the hands of those who believe the flags of two countries, of two democracies. This agreement that you will achieve this very late is probably a lethal one that gives the institution of the Presidency of the Generality. Miri, a year ago they invented a plebiscite, and then they invented that they had won it. In one year, there has always been the same: more nationalism, less Europe, looking for an external enemy, political rupture. The sound, all this music? They want to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain and Europe, but they don't have – and it's important – a legal basis, they don't have international support, they don't have a legal basis; therefore, please, they don't make us waste more time. But you – and this is the truth and we have seen it long ago, we have seen it long ago – are still wrong. Mr. Puigdemont, what don't you see? Hasn't he signed up yet? This breakup process won't break Spain, but it will end everything it touches. That you don't see that the Catalan society is divided? You are used to speaking on behalf of all Catalans and, please, ask that every time you speak on behalf of all Catalans, you have caution, because you are less aware of those we don't think like you, more than half of the Catalan population. Just as I or the rest of the political parties did not dare to speak on behalf of the entire Catalan society, I would ask you and your parliamentary group partners and your members who do not do so, because they are less than half the people of Catalonia. His leadership over the years has focused on the apologia of disobedience, constantly advocating disobedience to lay the foundations of political and social instability in Catalonia. With whom authority, Mr Puigdemont, can you ask the citizen of Catalonia to pay, for example, his fines, to respect the private property, the property of others, or to complete the contracts, if you are the first one to jump? Look guilty. They have the costume, and in a much more pronounced way, of, when things don't blow up, looking for guilt in the thirds. The blame for all the Spanish tea and the central government. This year you will go to history not to do, not to do so, for the absolute paralysis of the Government of Catalonia and to conceal the mismanagement in the fiction of the process and to blame, as I say, absolutely of all the inaction of your Government to the central government and the rest of Spain. They're constantly complaining about everything. They see a lot of room in the complaint. It's more, they like the complaint. The complaint is the excuse for his incompetence. And I tell you very clearly, Mr Puigdemont: the enemy of Catalonia is not Spain, the enemy of Catalonia is its incompetence and its unrealizable idea of a rupture. This is really the enemy of Spain. Certainly, and one question: what happened to them at the day's celebration in New York? How many people of relevancy went to the act? Why didn't they let the press take pictures? Are Americans also anti-Catalans? [[Rialles.]] Here, to Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.43.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.44.0	Who in Europe has shown solidarity before your complaint, Mr President? None. Well, yes: Latvia's Honorary Console to Barcelona. It's the only one – it's no longer an honorable count [[relays]] – the only one. It is the only international authority that has shown support for the independence process that is encapsulating Mr Puigdemont. Neither the President of the European Parliament, nor the President of the European Commission, nor the President of the Council of Europe. Is it not just the Americans anymore, but also the European authorities, are they also anti-Catholic? It's not like I'm out with the rest of Spain, it's out, Mr Puigdemont, with the rest of the world. You said that it will be dedicated to preparing state structures for, in July, to be able to enter the European Union under all conditions. This statement, apart from being a provocation, is an insult to the intelligence of people who have very little knowledge of how European institutions work. He was told by active and passive that an independent Catalonia would remain outside the European Union. Who else do they want to entangle? It is no longer dedicated to confusing or trying to hide the reality from those who are not independent, it is that they do so with their own followers; people, many of them, in good faith. Therefore, I would ask you that it is dedicated to prioritizing what most Catalans really care about; because you, this process has turned it into a modus vivendi. It's a way to stay in power, it's a way of life; but it's a way of life – and I have to tell you – very little healthy, because to stay it needs victimism and confrontation. And every day it is more obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the more we disconnect the Catalans from their independence mountain, the more we disconnect the Catalans from the name of the process, the more we get into the fire, and more declarations of disconnection have to be approved. But if it's that yesterday it wasn't able to coordinate the ciphers, Mr Puigdemont. First it was said that the independenceists are 2_millions; at the end of two minutes he told us that there were 2_millions, that there were 2_millions_i_mig– 2_millions_i_mig. O follow, I fail to divide, I fail to separate between good and evil Catalans. Listen'm, the 2_millions, the 2_millions_i_migSchools that you want– of independent Catalans deserve the same respect that the 5_millions of Catalans that we are not – the 5_millions of Catalans that we are not– ; because, if in Catalonia we are 7_millions, and there are 2_millions that are independent, there are 5_millions that are not. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] There are five million. Come on, it's... it's no longer a question that you don't know international or European Union law, it's a question of mathematics. [[Widow's remorse.]] Seven least of them are five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.45.0	Please, you'll have to silence them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.46.0	Seven least of them are five. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Yeah. No, no, Mr. Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]] While you're heading, Mr. Puigdemont, while you're heading... [[Pause.]] I told them that while you're heading for a path that doesn't go away, this situation creates doubts and fears for investors and entrepreneurs, and I'll give them an example, I'll give them some figures. This year the foreign investments in Catalonia have collapsed a 58_per_cent while the rest of Spain have advanced a 32. And if we talk about efficiency in management, for example in social policies, and the official gifts, and for example we take the assumption not to finance the Generality and the division for the population, it gives that every inhabitant of Catalonia has 4,100_euros to be able to dispose, theoretically; or so, 4,100_euros per capita. This means the third highest per capita income of availability in all of Spain. At the time of applying, at the time of providing this income in social policies, we are the fourth community with the highest per capita income in social policy..., alas, the fourth highest income per citizen, and we are the thirteen at social expense per inhabitant. This is a reality, Mr. Junqueras, don't look at me like that. Or, expenditure will not be divided by the population, per capita, 4,100_euros; or, at the time of making it available in social policy, only spent..., we are located in the number 13 of the conjunct d'Espanya. That's already in evidence – that's already in evidence – who are their priorities. Or, for example, you can talk about child support, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras. While the European Union allocates 2.2 of the gross domestic product, and Spain is allocated 1.4 to child support policies, in the case of Catalonia only 0.9_percent of the gross domestic product in these policies is allocated. Because that's why Mr. Puigdemont didn't talk about it these days. Or the creation of jobs. Since the year 2011 in Catalonia 4,700 enterprises have gone to other communities of the rest of Spain, and a significant number of those who are dedicated to questions related to the business fabric are changing their social domicile to the capital of Spain. Why don't we talk about this? Why don't they explain to us what the reasons are? While the whole European Union, or almost the entire civilised world, debates revolve around competitiveness, occupation, the recovery of support policies for the family, from the backs to an enveloped society or a quality of education, to Catalonia we are talking about the process. And so we've been spending time until we reach the culmination of the great frailty of your government, which has been, during this year, the presuppositions failed. The nyap of the failed assumptions sums up what was this first year of the legislature: inefficiency and child submission to the UPC. You've grown up with your partners, but instead of looking for alternatives, you insist on leaving Catalonia in the hands of the radicals. I understand, Mr Puigdemont, that with the People's Party you do not want to know; I understand it perfectly, therefore, because we are a party with very clear and very firm ideas. Now, man, you could think, because, for example, the Socialist Party is almost every week making offers to it to be able to rule with you; including they are absolutely willing to do everything to be able to make out the People's Party, and today at the intervention of Mr. Iceta we have been able to see it perfectly; or even Ciutadans, his leader has been offered, Mrs. Arrimadas, to accompany him to complain, to demand the Government of Spain. It seems that Ciutadans has recently played or practiced that equidistance between separatism, huh? And those who, so, well, we defend a strong Catalonia with the rest of Spain. [[Greetings.]] Yes, yes; clap, clap. And especially when Citizens – and especially when Citizens – tell her, and I think that with this you will be quite satisfied, that Catalonia would have a political solution, said Mrs. Arrimadas. From the People's Party we believe that Catalonia does not have a political solution, because Catalonia is not in conflict with the rest of Spain. What is needed in Catalonia is a government that is good and a government that is dedicated to prioritizing what really matters to the citizens and Catalans. [[Greetings.]] There is no political conflict in Catalonia. A week ago, Mr.Artur Mas said in a media outlet, the former president of the Generality, that sovereignism must take advantage of the land subscribed to by the lack of a central government. I would ask you here, Mr. Iceta, that, beyond the situation, therefore, that at these times you are in the Socialist Party, reflect on this question: if you do not have government or have a government in place, as we are living at these times, it is the one that needs Spain the most. It is obvious that those who bet for the fracture between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, as Mr.Artur Mas said, is the idyllic stage. Therefore, I would ask you that, beyond resolving, therefore, the situation that you are living, once and for all unlock the governance that is necessary in the central government. Yesterday he also took us, Mr Puigdemont, a new rabbit from the bar, a new genius, a new occurrence, as he said before, to keep the staff entertained: referring to a pact or referring. So, well, Mr Puigdemont, neither you nor anyone in Catalonia will call for an illegal referendum. [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you understand me? Hey, what's got into me? Neither you nor anyone will call an illegal reference to Catalonia. What you have to do is, the complaints or requests that you have and that you adjust to the state of law, to submit them with a modification or reform of the Constitution; and those requests or complaints that you have, legitimately based on your way of thinking, but that you adjust to the law in force, you may try to negotiate them, to talk to them, to discuss them with the Government of Spain; but neither you – or you – nor anyone will call an illegal referendum to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain in Catalonia. You want to talk about finance? They're talking about financing. You want to talk about culture? Talk about culture. Do you want to talk about an investment agreement? We'll talk about an investment agreement. Do they want to talk about the recognition of the current reality of Catalonia? Listen, let's talk about the current reality of Catalonia, but it has to be under a possible proposal that fits legal and that can be discussed. Mr Puigdemont – I am finalising – we, from the People's Party of Catalonia, bet to recover the real debate about the problems and needs that have a part or most of the Catalan society, a real debate about the problems of the streets, of the problems of the barrels, where the problems of the citizens follow the most important and that is about the nation, where the problems of the past are the priority over the star flag. In the face of the conflict that you are raising with us, which you raised with us yesterday morning, our bet is to work to add to the place to divide, to integrate into accounts to separate, to advance to the place to back off. Today, Mr Puigdemont, you will win the question of trust, but your victory will be the defeat of Catalonia; the defeat of Catalonia that bets on moderation, centrality and agreement. The CUP's yes to its question of trust is the defeat of Catalonia that comes before what it divides and what remains; it's what you have chosen and it's your responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.47.0	Many thanks, Mr. García Albiol. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.48.0	Well, good afternoon, Madam President. Mr. Albiol, you say I didn't detect anyone and you recognize me as an enabler to generate a certain narrative tension, but you have automatically already worked out a sequence, a rule of disqualifications that, let's face it, deserve as much as I hand it over, like at least some of the statements you said. From the start, because I don't think I'm good for all Catalans. This is lied – this is lied. I don't speak for all Catalans, but I do politics for all Catalans, for all. And I hope that when Mr. Rajoy talks about Spaniards you don't think he's representing us who don't agree with his project, but I do hope you're doing politics – which he doesn't – because of the pool of Spanish taxpayers we're still in the Spanish State. Therefore, on this idea I will tell you some of the things that I mentioned yesterday and on which the general policy debate is more explicit, but they have to see directly with our obsession to protect and defend the interests of Catalans. Fixed, you were talking to me about the financing model. How do we think they think they're doing when the 1st generation of the year you're going to be three years old has expired? And they had an absolute majority in Parliament, when he was playing, to reform him, and it won't be that people from his own party didn't ask them to do it. Can you tell me exactly for what reason the financing system, which now says that it's something that you can put on the table and that you can negotiate, in all these three years you haven't updated it? Well, because they don't care about people, they matter. You know, and before you've done a review of resource generation capacity and policy distribution, then you know that Catalonia is the third most resource-generating and the penultimate in real waste resources? Do you know that the welfare of other autonomous communities is partly financed by Catalan money, that for your band you see how your services cannot be fully financed? Do you know that every year, since 1986, 8_percent of the country's total wealth is in and out of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans? You know what that means? That every year, that which is gone and does not make equal to all the expense of Health, Teaching, bless the family of this Government; every year. Is that just worrying about independence? Is that defending the interests of Catalans, when you have responsibilities to govern with a state that exactly tolerates and encourages this type of inequality? Miri, and when we tried to solve this lack of resources, some of which were provided for in regulations, we tried to impose taxes, what was your answer? Block. The tax on bank deposits, the tax on nuclear energy, the tax on telecommunications, the tax on empty floors... Can you tell me what the attitude of the Spanish Government was before this Government's legitimate intention to try to collect more money there where they can collect it, to try to deal with the needs of the people of Catalonia? Why did we do that? Because we're interested in people. Therefore, they ask you when you talk about whether we focus more or less on one thing, withhold these figures. Withdraw, for example, EUR 3,710_million– EUR 3,700_million– pending payment of the third additional provision of the Statute. I remember the 532_millions of euros that I don't pass, of the accumulated debt, with the Mossos d'Esquadra. I remember, and I have already done, the failure of the compromise to finance the Law of Dependency: 18_percent of the 50_per_cent you should be financing. [[Widow's remorse.]] I remember them – I remember them... [[Pause.]] I listened to them very patiently. [[Funnel veils]] When Mr. Albiol was using the word, and they ask them to do, like at least, the same, it's not much to ask. I already know that perhaps you generate an extraordinary effort, that of listening to others, but ask them if you please that, as at least, since I have listened to them patiently and attentively, you do exactly the same. Don't they like to feel it? I know, but I repeat it. Miri, do you know what FLA's interests cost us? Do you know what it cost us to finance the FLA because it gives us money that is Catalan? Do you know what it cost? 1,900_million euros in interest; 1,900_million euros between 2012 and 2015, set times the social plan. Between 2012 and 2015 the Generalitat has paid in concept of interests to the Spanish State more than 1,900_million euros. Maybe it looks like it's a syllabus that we can afford. I don't think so. Why do you know what's going on? Let this xifra, if we can arrange it, so that the system is organized, let's say, of the state of autonomy, here goes directly – directly – to the people who have it most..., needy, needy, needy. And you, in change, remember that we, in the framework of our competitions, make every effort, for example, to achieve the internationalization of our economy. Some figures that I'll make clear to you, some figures to make it clear what we're talking about. The productive foreign gross investment, in the first half of 2016, was effectively 59.5 minus the same period of 2015, when it certainly produced a record. But in the conjunction of the State it has dropped a 28,7, to 6,715_millions, and in Spain, without Catalonia, it has dropped a 16,8. It is to say that the speed of the foreign investment development causes the data for the first half of 2016 not to be colluding, but that there is a full possibility that at the end of the year the effect, let's say, distorting these data is correct. In this sense, let's say that the foreign gross investment in 2015, and that's when we look at the data, at the end of the exercise, it grew a 57.8_per_cent– 57.8_per_cent at the end of 2015. Let's see, tanmateix, what is the foreign investment that is produced at the end of 2016, but I'll tell him some data that can guide him to where we're going. Exports. In July of the 16th, Catalan exports have dropped, but they have dropped less than the European context has been and have dropped less than the reality of the Spanish State has been, and in cumulative terms they have grown, which is something we cannot say about the European context and the Spanish State. In terms of business climate, let's also dexi'mdir it some other data. Catalonia leads the constitution of mercantile companies. Only between the generation and August 2016 were more than seven thousand created; that is, a 22_percent of the total state. In this same period, 1,621, a 10.5_per_cent less than in the similar period of 2015, and only represents a 10_per_cent of the enterprises in the total of the State, have been dissolved. That is, a 22_percent of the total state is created and a 10_percent of the total state is deleted. There was no runaway to Catalonia. From Catalonia there were 949 companies out between July 2015 and June 2016, yes, but it is a xifra lower than the Madrid business run of the same period, exactly 988. It is to say that more companies leave Madrid, in absolute volume and in proportion, than in Catalonia. Is that a corporate getaway? In any case, if it is a flight of companies it is necessary to refer to those that are to be produced in Madrid. And I let'remember it too, in this sense, to confirm the good business climate and confidence generated by the Catalan economy, the very one remembered by its Government, the Government of the People's Party, with a note from this month of September itself, that the Catalan economy is pulling out of the car and that, obviously, there is no trace of this ghost that you say goes through the business administration boards, that goes through process, that scares investment. More recently, the one above, Mr Albiol, the one above is a great concern for Spanish political uncertainty, which does stop investments and which does prevent jobs from being created. You say that the mechanism of the question of trust is, in short, a mechanism, let's say..., a farce. He spoke of farce, of irrationality, of hope, of a whole succession of adjectives that makes me the effect that they are not the most recommenable at least if they want to do from centrality and from moderation. Look, this farce, which you say, this director of a great circus, who says that I am..., turns out that it is done in a democratically elected parliament, where there are a majority of Members, as in all the parliaments of the world, who make decisions. Well, in all parliaments, no; there is a parliament in which this cannot happen, that it is Spanish, that at these times there can be no question of trust, no type of parliamentary control of the Government, nor just any type of, at all, investigative commission, for what it seems. This doesn't happen in the Spanish State. And, therefore, if you think that what happens here in the Parliament of Catalonia, in a very little respectable way, is a circus, you would ask it exactly what qualification it deserves what is happening at these times in the Spanish State, since the month of generation, since this government began to work. [[Greetings.]] You say I don't..., well, that's good enough to talk for 2_millions... – 2_millions_i_mig, I explained yesterday, supporters of a referendum, 2_millions_i_mig in favor; 2_millions in favor of independence–, and that, therefore, that there are the remaining 5... Home, listen'm, in these remaining 5 there are our children and girls, there are a lot of people who haven't been voting, there are a lot of people who... Why do you assume that the 5_million people who have not gone to vote, for the reasons that follow, because they have abstained or because they have not been, all 5_million, are against Catalonia's independence? Do you know how many people there are explicitly against Catalonia's independence? 39_per_cent – 39_per_cent. Exactly, that's the xifra. And you know how many people, before this 39_per_cent that is explicitly opposed to Catalonia's independence, how many people are explicitly in favor of independence? A 48_per_cent. You make numbers, and you'll see who the majority is and who the minority is. And in this case, I think that the figures are of a roundness that you can't deny by any more that you try, every time, to confuse people, thinking that it's 2_million against 5. In these five, there's a lot, a lot, a lot of people. For example, people who today must be born in some of our public referral hospitals in this country. [[Greetings.]] You say that..., you..., I hope that the Members of the CUP did not end badly, tell me that I am from the CUP. [[Widow's remorse.]] I hope you don't and I hope you see the differences, if you don't appreciate them. But I already know, why do you say that? I already know, why do you say that? You say that to discredit the possibilities of agreement with any political force. And you must think that there are first-rate deputies and second-rate deputies. And you must think that there are first-time voters and second-place voters. And you have to think that there are more legitimate groups to come to terms with than others. And in any case, what you have right to judge is not the intent or democratic quality of the vote that is held in a political force, what you have right to judge is the pacts that come up and why they serve and if they actually serve for this collection of "infunds that you have just described in relation to the social model that I defend, because it seems to me that it is clear and clear, among other things because I already have a few years and I have been able to demonstrate which social model defense, with which is the reality of the governance pacts and the pacts that allow this government to pull forward. You, this, I think, go, at all, that I should have reviewed, because you say: "We are alone, we are unable to reach agreements. Because you have to consider reaching agreement with another parliamentary group, so... – in this case with the UPC, if we get there – it's not a waste. Exactly, can you tell me what parliamentary agreements have been made in the Spanish Congress? Can you tell me what's going on? They won't be able to avoid second choices! They made a monumental ridiculous. They're about to make another monumental ridiculous. They're not knitting any kind of solid complicity. At last... it's not long ago that he's finished offering to his coalition partners until now, people who I assume a few days from now are going to ask for the support to see if he can help invest Mr. Rajoy's president. From now on, what you just said, it probably won't be so easy. But you are not in a position to explain to a government that has a majority and that has invested with an absolute majority of this Parliament and that adheres to the confidence of this Parliament we learn about the ability to reach agreements. Here we have come to an agreement, we come to an agreement with dissenting people, that this is the grace of democracy, because we agree with the people we think the same, let us say that it is relatively simple, and this is what makes the Catalan political system strong, with a clamorous contrast – clamorous – with the Spanish political system. It's more: we don't want to look like that system. And we will make as much effort as we can and we will agree with everyone – and the opening of the pact is absolutely to everyone in this chamber – to try to continue defending the interests of our citizens. On international politics, which you are so concerned about, about what Catalonia does, let'mix' them, exactly, with what money is spent on Spanish politics in relation to this area. I'm saying this because, very frivolously, you accuse us of being rude and saying that if we only have an interest in having relations with... I don't know what countries he said. Listen to me, four days ago, the last delegation that has opened is that of Portugal, which you will agree with me that it is not a country that is neither exotic, nor far, nor with which we do not have, for another band, need to establish good links: commercial, economic, social links. The last is this, no, no, it's not Venice, it's this. And, by the way, speaking of Cuba... listen, it's the Americans who were there first, not us. Do you think they're wrong, the Americans, going to Cuba? Does it look like it's a mistake to try to establish business and business relations with Cuba? You must be the only one who thinks so, because you think 'I've interviewed a few Catalan entrepreneurs who are excited to go there and ask us to go there and accompany them. You think we should stop doing this? Hey, what's wrong? So, listen to me, at the time of talking about the efforts that this government is making to internationalize our economy, be a more thoughtful point, especially because, you know, Minister Margallo, who is always characterizing to talk about Catalonia – the foreign minister who speaks of Catalonia – believes 'that it is all a speech and a whole position; give us, let us say, very succulent headlines about how money is spent on all Spaniards, counting, therefore, Catalan taxpayers, to try to stop what is the compromise and the obligation of this government to do everything that is to me, at the mercy of the application of the competitions of the State, in order to internationalize, for example, our economy or our culture. I suppose you don't have to scandalize, to you, that it's spent, also from Catalans, 800,000_euros a year to keep the premises and gardens of the Paris embassy of Ex-Minister Wert; or that it's spent more than 550,000_euros on furniture in Tokyo; or that Rabat's residence has cost 6_millions of euros. Certainly, what has cost Rabat's residence alone exceeds by 1.2 million everything that the Government of the Government of Catalonia spends on foreign policy. What do you think? Doesn't that blush? Doesn't that make him think they might have a little problem with the way you internationalize the Spanish State? , and that they have a problem with us, with less than 6_million euros that Rabat costs, so much soroll that Minister Margallo forces to go first to the Vatican, after having to go to the Assembly of the United Nations, send two ambassadors plenipotentiaries to go to the world to escape the curses of the people of Catalonia, which has one..., which does something as perverse as it is trying to vote. I think you independents... you said it, I think you... I know you're honest when you say that we independents deserve respect, but a lot of people in your party don't think so. It's not to respect us when Mr. Feijoo talks about guns, it's not. It's not to respect us when Mr. Margallo compares us to the effects of a terrorist storm, it's not. You're disrespectful. So it's not going anywhere. With the negation of the other, with, at last, the criminalization of the other because he thinks differently, with operations Catalonia, financed with public money to try to impassion honorable and honest people was not in place. [[Greetings.]] So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, In the end, he said: "No one will summon an illegal reference to Catalonia. You're right. You're right, because it won't be illegal. Because the reference will be legal, like everything we decide in this country. There will be nothing we decide not to pass through this Parliament and then not to submit to the verdict of the ballot box. Does it look like it's very illegal, does it? It seems to him that it is tremendously against the law, that it is against the democratic rights that things are decided in a freely chosen parliament and that it is valid in the ballot box with all the citizens? Exactly where is the democratic problem with this operation? It's not there. And, therefore, there will be no illegal reference. After what... well, what he said here today, he's not going to be surprised that there isn't... well, there's a certain harmony with a lot of groups, beyond ours, trying to get out of the People's Party of the Government of the State. It's not personal entertainment, but I think that after feeling it here today, it seems to me that the spectrum of people who would want the People's Party to leave the Government of the Spanish State has increased a little more. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.49.0	Thank you very much, President. There's a word from Mr. Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.50.0	Mr President, after seeing your reply, I have already seen that my intervention, unlike that of Mrs Arrimadas, did not please him, nor felt cordially – cordially – answered. But, well, listen to me, you've used a series of arguments... – I've been pointing them out as I could – but you haven't answered any fears that, for us, we do believe that part of Catalan society is also important. He has not challenged this agreement, this pact with the CUP, which will allow him to follow you as President of the Generality, to change what he is. A change in a reference as much as it is..., a change in what it is, because the representatives of the UPC say that..., well, yes, that the reference is fine, but that there will be more things. You didn't explain that to us. Speaking of the reference, this is a reference... Or so it will not be a reference – and I have already said it in my intervention, I repeat it –, an illegal reference to Catalonia can already have absolute security... But it is that, apart from you, Mr Puigdemont, you are not interested in this reference. Because a company of his bank, a company of his group, Mr. Bel, who is here, said a few days ago that making a reference is to repeat the 9-N but in pathetic. And I wasn't the one who told him that this reference is pathetic, that he said it's pathetic, by writing, it's Mr. Germà Bel. And I'd ask you, from time to time, to listen to your group company. How was there another one... you in the morning. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And now he's made reference to the president of Galicia, Mr. Feijoo. Mr. Feijoo does not..., escorti'm, Mr. Feijoo does not compare with the guns nor the trial to Catalonia, nor does he... [[remorse of the voice]] It's not like that. And I look if I don't compare it – and I look if I don't compare it – that an advisor from his government, the election night said that Galicia and the Basque Country, that they had won stability and moderation and that we had... – the more or less they came to say, I didn't point out it – to see if we took note of it here. Listen, centrality, moderation, I guess I don't need to remember it, you have to remember it, you have to remember it... I think that the tweet that made your execution company, your advisor, went expressly for you and all your group companies. Therefore, the demands, the demands must, therefore, be reflected. Let's see, the People's Party doesn't always know? It's true– it's true. We are not perfect, but, man, we try to solve the problems; we try not to create difficulties; we try not to add more doubts at a time when it is deeply convulsed. And when you have made references to what is happening to the Government of Spain, I must say that you are absolutely right... – to the Government of Spain, to the Congress of Deputies, to national politics... –, you are absolutely right, it is unfortunate what is happening. That's why I gave Mr. Iceta a warning because among all of us we're still able to unlock this political blockade situation that's going on. But, look, I'm still feeling an unfortunate situation of political blockade being provoked in the Government of Spain by some, escorted, like at least, there's a government that rules. At least, there's a government that has assumptions! Mr. Puigdemont, it's that you carry a year with the process and you don't even have as many approved assumptions. [[Greetings.]] You don't even have the approved assumptions. Therefore, it is not the most authoritative way of giving lessons, nor of how to govern. But if he escaped in his first intervention yesterday! He said, "God, I don't know what happened this year. But if you're right about that, you're right about that, I'm right about it. Listen to me, there's been a series of adventures, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No..., indeed, a series of adventures – a series of adventures –, starting, therefore, in ugly reference, that has not been able with those who signed an agreement to be able to approve even the first assumptions of this legislature. I have no kind of doubt, I must say, that a few weeks from now you will present assumptions and, on these assumptions, your members of the UPC will approve them. I'm telling you why he was checking on me yesterday. Home, you said: "The assumptions or choices. Home, if the assumptions have to be the assumptions of the UPC, we have to tell it with a lot of sincerity, we bet on the second option: we bet on the elections, huh? And after you've made quite a few references, I haven't been able to take them all, with regard to economic policy and with regard to international policy. That the Government of Spain invests in international and diplomatic politics? Clearly, because it forms part of its own competitions, like a state, and they must remain in embassies and they must keep buildings abroad on condition. Do you know what's not presentable? Huh? That the Government of Catalonia is spent 1_million euros every year with an office in Brussels, huh? , why do you..., theoretically we had a representative of the Generality before the European Union, and that this representative of the Generality before the European Union turns out that there is now a feeling that it doesn't exist, huh? That it's illegal. And here you spend 1_million euros every year. We, who want it to be foreign policy..., of course we do want it to be foreign policy, but to help Catalonian businesses, to help export, to help give knowledge of our culture, to help meet Catalonia as such. What we don't want is that it's vagina open-ended embassies... well, that they're not embassies, offices as if they were embassies, to try..., and that they don't love it – don't love it –, to try, therefore, to create certain points in the conjunction of Europe and the rest of the world, from a strategic point of view, to give knowledge of the independence process or to give knowledge of the adventure of the rupture that you are ending in Catalonia. That's what we don't want or support. In relation to..., he talked about economic figures, he talked about investments... I already told him what to say. Miri, if you take the year 2015, says: "No, the year 2015 there was more foreign investment in Catalonia than in the rest. Well, I'm taking him this year – this year – and during this year the reversal in Catalonia fell to the figures I told him, and the rest of Spain has grown. And that's an objective fact. It is true that there are two months to go, but in what we carry from year this is the xifra, and the reversal to Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont, unfortunately, the foreign reversal to Catalonia, unfortunately for all, is coming down. That Catalonian companies, with the difficulties, are pulling forward? Home, therefore, is something that we are not all happy about, but, look, they are pushing forward despite you, despite the passages that they pose to businesses, despite the political, legal and institutional instability that they are provoking. Mr Puigdemont, perhaps you know it, but I don't know a businessman or an entrepreneur, I don't know it. I don't know it. I'm not going to say it one day: « Xavi, I'm coming here, I'm going to introduce you to an entrepreneur – I'm going to say that this process of political instability that is going on in Catalonia loves it, it's causing a spectacular increase in sales... How are those who are dedicated to making stelades for you and the samaretes of this point, that surely these are okay with them, huh? [[some applause]] – but, of the rest of normal entrepreneurs, I don't know how to say that this situation of political instability that is living in Catalonia fantasistic vagis. Listen, despite you, Catalonian businesses are moving forward, and that's the important thing. And it seems to me to me a tremendous complacency that you criticized the Government of Spain, for example, with the help of the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, with the FLA; it seems to me tremendously unfair. Esconti'm, from the year 2012– from the year 2012– until today, the Government of Espanya has made it to the Government of the Generality 60,000_million euros; I repeat: 60,000_million euros. And in the later years, when the economic situation of the public accounts of the State was balanced, a zero interest was applied to the financing of these funds; zero interest. Listen to me, and if it doesn't look good, because it's a complaint that there's a lot of interest in it, what you have to do is go to the bank and ask for money, see if they give them more money. Do you know what his problem is? That if you go to the bank, they won't lend you money. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So I like it, I can't; they recognize me. Mr. Puigdemont recognizes me that they can't go to the bench. Who's the one who can't go to the bank? The one who doesn't. And why not the fig? So, because they don't see that you have the ability to manage the money properly. So... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, gentlemen of the CUP, I don't... I know you want to defend Mr. Puigdemont very much, but don't tell me no, that's right. [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen, you can't go to the bank market because you don't want to, because of an economic situation, so now we won't go into detail. But it is important to note: the Spanish Government, at the time it was able to balance the accounts, applied a zero interest to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund. And that, and that, Mr. Junqueras, is that it? Hey, what's up? [[Widow's remorse.]] This last year..., what kind of interest did they apply the year 2015? What type of interest did they apply to 2015? [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.51.0	Is that a dialog?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.52.0	Okay. Therefore, he says: "Only one year. Well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.53.0	Do we have a dialog?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.54.0	Well, that's more than what Mr. Puigdemont said. [[Rialles.]] That's more than Mr Puigdemont said, isn't it? So, with this information, we're fine. And also the progress one thing that I am sure that to you, as representatives of the Sovereignty of Catalonia, will seem very good to you, as to us: from the year you see, from the year 2017, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, the Catalans will no longer pay the tax of... – now I have lost myself. [[Rialles.]] From the year [[Funnel veils]] ... – no, I have many notes – from the year..., Mr. Puigdemont, I am sure that you and Mr. Junqueras will be very happy, because from...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.55.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.56.0	... of the year 2017 the Catalans, thanks to the Government of Spain, will no longer pay the property tax; they will return a bonus of the cent_per_cent. I think that's very good news. [[remorse of the voice]] I think it's news... the counselor. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] ...justice's counselor got his mouth open listening to me. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] It is already possible to stay with the open mouth, the Councillor of Justicia, that from the year 2017 the Catalans, thanks to the Government of Spain, we will stop paying, because the Government of Spain will improve it with the cent_per_cent, the tax of assets. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I didn't talk about VAT, I'm talking about the estate tax, that in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.57.0	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.58.0	...that's where we pay more, the Catalans, huh? Catalonia is where we pay the most taxes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.59.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.60.0	...and all of Europe. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do you want to talk about it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.61.0	We're not dialing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.62.0	Do you want to talk about it? Well, all right. Then... So, I think this is good news. And he also referred, Mr Puigdemont, to a question that, man, which he demonstrated... Before he said, therefore, that he had had an attitude, it seems to me, with the theme, for example, of the FLA, which was not loyal; here he shows bad faith. What I'm going to tell you, under my eye, with all due respect, shows bad faith. What you say, Mr Puigdemont – that you have been mayor of Girona and, therefore, you have ruled in the previous legislature a joint venture, as I have done, and therefore you know perfectly well what the economic situation in which the public administrations were in the previous legislature was – that you say that the Government of Spain, in the previous legislature, did not intend to negotiate a new model of financing is a tremendous injustice. He said yes, that it's been three years and that the Government of Spain has not wanted to talk about the new funding model. That's bad faith, Mr. Puigdemont; it's bad faith. And I'll tell you why it's bad faith. Because you know perfectly well that the situation of public finances to all administrations, some better and others worse, but especially those of the central government, when the government of the People's Party came to the government of Spain were catastrophic; Spain was a country that was about to be intervened for the European Union. Do you think that with this scener, before the worst economic crisis of the past seventy years, when there was almost no money to pay pensioners, when the providers could not be paid, when there was no liquidity, at that time it was time to talk about a new financing model for the autonomous communities? Do you think that's the time? Honestly, it seems to me to be an act of bad faith and it seems to me to be an act of disinformation gain. Why isn't it worth it, Mr Puigdemont? Why don't you accept the sincere proposal I made to you? I said to him: "Now that economic stability has come in general terms to our administrations, now that the recovery is increasing, now is the time to talk about a new financing system. We want to talk about a new financing system, now that the economic situation is better than four, five or six years ago. Continue brave, present a proposal for a new model of financing system; discuss it. The Government of Spain will be with you, it will be with Mr Junqueras, as the new Government of Spain already does every time Mr Junqueras has asked to have a meeting. And if you ask and are presented with a proposal for a new funding model, a proposal, as I said, for constitutional reform, let's talk about it. But for this it needs courage, and for this it needs to draw's, once and for all, certain companies, certain partners, which are not good for Catalonia. You fight – you fight. Miri, the smile that you are making, to most Catalans, regardless of the ideology that we can tingle, when it is talking about Catalan politics and when it is talking about who is giving support to the Government of Catalonia, I can assure you that no..., the smile freezes – the smile freezes. Because Catalonia, with what it is, above all, that it has been, that it is in hand, that it is conditioned by an anti-system party like its travel companions, this produces very little grace. You will be very much laughed at, but the vast majority of Catalan society is very unthankful. And one last question. You tell me that I've been very critical of the CUP, your travel partners, because I don't want you to deal with the rest of the games. Quite the opposite, Mr Puigdemont; but if I'm telling you! And if I'm honest with you, I understand that I don't want to compromise with us, because we have some very firm ideas and ideas; we, therefore, with the independence issue, obviously won't agree. But the PSC is making offers on the day, on the day as well. Citizens said that he wants to talk to you and that he wants to go to Madrid to complain to the central government, to the government of Spain. To Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, too, so there's all the predisposition. Listen, we don't go with you, but look if you have any travel companions who are willing to go with you and your political group. With the least, listen to them. Yesterday I saw some statements, this middle, while I was saying, where representing you, Mrs. Gabriel, was saying, I was saying that you are already talking to Mr. Junqueras about the assumptions, that you have already had meetings to discuss the subject of the assumptions, she said. Listen to me, you haven't called anyone from the People's Party to talk about assumptions. I don't know if they've called the rest of the parties; the People's Party hasn't called us to talk about assumptions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I do want you to trick him, because I think he's good. Mr. Junqueras, because I think he's good – because I think he's good. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Actually, as I'm not the one presenting the assumptions I can't call you to come to your sister to talk about the assumptions, it must be you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No... Mr. Junqueras, whenever you wanted to talk to the Minister of Hisenda you've always talked to the Minister of Hisenda. I don't make me talk. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] You, whenever you wanted to talk to the Minister of Hysenda, you spoke to the Minister of Hysenda. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Evidently; but if here the one who does not want to breed, who does not present the assumptions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.63.0	Please, we're not dialing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.64.0	...it's you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, listen to me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.65.0	Please don't dial, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.66.0	It's just that, of course, Mr. Junqueras, like that Mr. Puigdemont won't let him talk, so he needs... [[Widow's remorse.]] When they give him an excuse, he needs to do... I already understand it – I already understand it. But I said to them: listen to me, Mr Puigdemont, present a proposal, present a reform of the Constitution, try to reach agreement with the rest of the political formations, because, as I said in my intervention, it seems to us that the company that you have chosen, it seems that the travel companies that you have chosen will be the ones that will give you today your vote of confidence, but they are the worst option for Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.67.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. There's the president's word. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.68.0	Good afternoon, everyone. David Fernàndez Ramos, the deputy in charge of making the speech of the investiture ple of 21 December 2012, started the day that that day would have died eighty_th thousand people in profit and that the debt would die eighty_th thousand people more in profit. We're right there. In fact, we can't even tell if the xifra has gone up or down, because many countries have only estimated censuses of population and that they can dance, in fact, of a few million. So we understand that hundreds of thousands of people are still dying. FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, has been telling us for years that 30,000 or 40,000_million euros a year would be used to eradicate the world's extreme fame; but we don't. It was given thirty times this xifra to the North American banks because it still doesn't work. It's said capitalism, it's said wicked and cannibal system, and it deserves us to think if every one of us does everything in our hands and more to fight it. And why do we start here? So, because this is where the CUP - Alternative of Esquerres started that day; that day we started political activity in this parliamentary chamber, in part of our Catalan Countries. And since that day, he's moved us exactly the same: to make the right to self-determination, to make independence real and to make it clear that this will hardly be real if we don't seek an alternative to patriarchal capitalism. Yes, patriarchal system, which in concrete translation is the judgment that our companies today suffer in Palma, to which they ask four years of imprisonment to manifest themselves in favor of the right to avortion. Yes, patriarchal system, in concrete translation, are also the sexual assaults that suffer many women in the night street and also during the feasts of the Mercè. It moves us, therefore, exactly the same one that moved us that day: to get us to get us ethical, political and moral marks. The CUP - Constituent Creed, which we are here representing more than 330,000 people, we come from the moon. We gave it to him that day, too. At that time, the path walked led us to vote against the investiture of President Mas. Shortly afterwards, the generation of 2016, we gave eight votes in favour of the investiture of Mr Puigdemont and two abstentions. And all the way back, that goes from the far but also the most recent, we have done, basically, with our efforts, our perseverance, our militancy and, above all, our word and our coherence. We don't have any more dough. We don't have power, we don't have power. We have our hands, our capital, and we have a political culture that we want to preserve, because we take decisions collectively and are not proud, and we know that some of you want to be hierarchical and subordinate, but we are assemblies and critics. "Whoever is unwilling to give support to the presuppositions, who do not give me confidence, said to you yesterday. We have never rejected the possibility of supporting assumptions. We didn't do that during the negotiation of the past months of May and June. That's why we negotiated until the last minute, without success, that's true. Precisely because of this, and as it is natural, we will not now reject the possibility of giving support to assumptions that allow us to include the legislature. Let me make it clear, however, that voting on this confidence that we will vote today does not give you a blank letter so that you can take on a political pressure that you intend to force no one to vote on any assumptions that you do not believe in. As you know, as you all know, between two people, and not between two groups, and less still between two complex groups, antagonistic in many things, trust is not one-way, but it is of old and torn, and it is built– above all between groups that only share some objectives, but that do not share a single vision of society or of how to organize its resources–, it is built, as I say, on the honest interaction of parents and on the basis of the willingness to reach agreements. That's why we're responding right now that it's clear that we're willing to give support to the assumptions, but as you or you can understand, naturally, we won't vote some assumptions before we see them, and neither will we vote some assumptions that reproduce the assumptions that we've already said not in June. We have voted in favour of the question of trust that you have raised, and we have thus opened ourselves up to the possibility of advancing this legislature which for us cannot fail to be exceptional, since it is the legislature in which the people of Catalonia must finally be able to exercise their right to self-determination. This is one of the main meanings of the legislature. We have always defended it and we believe that this is what the popular majority heard last September 27th, a year ago. And it's true, we also agree very much with you, Mr. President, when you tell us that assumptions are a key element in this final stretch of the legislature. We also believe that they must be a key element, and we hope that they will help build this chain of confidence that you spoke of yesterday in the measure that they are an instrument to increase the independence social base, a social base that needs national cohesion and social justice; an instrument to consolidate a social majority that identifies the independence project with a project that goes further than a sea of change of flags, that goes further than a change of legislators and rulers and that is seen, on the part of a social majority, as an economic, social and cultural project oriented towards the satisfaction of the needs of these majorities and born of the will of these same majorities. There must therefore be assumptions that it is a tool to win the referendum. And because we can win the independence referendum, the idea of referral must be able to be associated with a project of progress, a project of majorities, a project oriented to benefit them, and not a project, like the thirty years of autonomy, that is oriented to benefit and protect the interests of some elites who are often corrupt and always compromised with the same status that has just denied us the right to self-determination while facilitating that the rich are each time richer and that the poor are growing. For this reason, we insist, the assumptions can be – for us, too – a very necessary tool to bring the legislature to a good place, but not any assumptions. We need – in fact, this country needs – assumptions designed as a tool for redistribution of wealth and, therefore, which require greater contribution to those they most have in order to put these resources in the service of the majority and, in particular, those they least have. The richest Catalan – because, in fact, Intermon Oxfam does not reveal the name of this person – possesses as much wealth as the poorest 155,000 families. In 2014, according to the Barcelona Assembly, the city's richest barrio was Pedralbes, with an index of 257_on_one half of 100. Meanwhile, the least favored barrel was Trinitat Nova, with a 34.7. That supposes the difference of 7.2 times. So, well, before the crisis, the difference between the two barrels – which also existed – was 3.9 times. The difference, in crisis, has increased. The xifra is substantial and whatever I comment on is clear. The Barcelones has a middle income per capita of 18.100 euros and the region of Montsia, in change, 11.200. The xifra is substantial and whatever I comment on is clear. The bank rescue cost more than €3,600 per inhabitant of the Catalan Countries. Meanwhile, EUR 57,000_million is the xifra of the fraud and the tax haven to the Catalan Countries. The cipher is also substantial and whatever I comment on is clear. If it is not asked more of those who have become richer – also during the crisis – those who have more, it will be impossible to correct the tendency to make a society where every time there are fewer people who concentrate more resources and where every time more people are seen more excluded and every time there is poorer. We need, in this country, to have some assumptions about the content of public service and privatization policies that are owned by everyone and that should be served by everyone. We are materialists but we are not vulgar materialists. We believe in the moral economy, an economy based on equity and justice, based on the principles of mutual cooperation over personal gain. People are not economic agents, we are not an anonymous mass that buys, sees, consumes, but we are people loaded with material and moral needs. We believe that in economic activity and in public intervention on the economy there are legitimate and illegitimate actions, such as being a millionaire with the will of the people or consenting, with "austericide" measures, that the people pass and that they see their human condition reddened on the ground. That's what we're going to ask the government at the time to approve assumptions. To begin to reverse the harmful policies that have contributed, which have led to the fact that private interests make, every time more, their logic of maximization of benefits there would be a shielding that exclosed these logics and is centered on public service, free, universal, because sanitation and education are right, they are not commodities; because salvation, education – the public – is a precious thing that cannot be served by benefit logics, that cannot be segregated by gender and cannot be in the hands of religious congregations. And remember that one day, perhaps, we could take a trip to the land of the Box to remember that one day it undermined independence for a government that confused the 27 September mandate with approving, yes or yes, empty speculative operations of social interest. We're talking about Barcelona World. "We have a reset," you said, "and let's ask ourselves if we want to continue. Ours, yes. Therefore, stop feeding those who think they should have corrected the election results of 27 September, those who claim revenge against the UPC, those bad advisors who tell you that, if you are stomached, you will eliminate us. We work, we culminate in the legislature and we do as much as possible so that you can, as you and I imagine, wish to rule well. And rule well means putting all the mechanisms in the service of the self-determination of our people and their concrete exercise. To govern well is to culminate the legislature having articulated the first phase of the process constitute, which will show that the republic will be popular. We have not come to talk about ourselves, but we do need the country to feel humbled, but with a high head, that we are not people who miss our word, and I think you know it. That's why we need report-generating machines, to make your truth prevail, to make us look like people who are missing from the engagements, but you know that's not true. But we didn't come to talk about ourselves – and, in fact, neither did you – nor did we come to reply to what the real reason is for proposing the question of trust, nor did we come to answer some of the statements made in the last few months about whether we stand up to the wheels or whether we deserve or don't have political initiative. We didn't come here to talk about us or you. We've come to talk about something that goes beyond today, the air and here. We have come to talk about freedom, popular power and social justice. We understand that there are the material and context conditions for making this Mediterranean bank a space of freedom in a European Union that tends more quickly to restrict them; a strong European Union, a prison and a shameful concentration camp that expels people fleeing from wars, from gain and terror; a European Union that already counts with a number of countries in which the extreme right governs and which, shortly after, practices xenophobia and racism on an institutional scale; a European Union that underlies the principle of non-interference in the domestic life of the states ends up validating violations of human rights and collectivism. Because it is also a feminist key that we denounce this European Union, because no policy should be domestic, private or reserved only to the arbitrage of the states, because this European Union does not and is forged to reserve the private, domestic, conflicts that should be of interest to any democratic institution. In this raccoon of the Mediterranean, some Catalan countries are coming for us transformative and liberation projects. Because challenging the 78's is also challenging its map, its map of power, the imposition of a ban on establishing links of cooperation between territories that we would like to walk in folds. In this bank of the Mediterranean there are the material and context conditions to carry out the right to self-determination with the international right-holder, with the denial of the lawfulness in force in the Spanish State, but with the determination of the institutions and the people of that country. There have been very important mobilizations in this country in recent years: local consultations on independence, street mobilizations, some of which have overflowed the heads of some political parties, and have called for independence when some people wanted that the tax pact. In this country there is a baton calling for democracy and calling for the recovery of sobrieties stolen by autonomous brands, by constitutions reformed in August and by courts that execute party wills. Because there have also been mobilizations that have overflowed the unionism of concertation and claudication, at a time when the aggravation of the crisis and the worsening of the conditions of the popular classes that they demanded was more fought and more combative. And here we have the example of the companies of the courts, of the COS, or the struggle to the universities, who have brought a denunciated rectorate to twenty-seven students, teachers and NOT to whom they ask eleven years of prison. This is combat trade unionism, which is answered, for example, with the car cream of the secretary general of the CGT only a few days ago. Because this is a country that – perhaps not all we want, but much more than many others – has not stopped mobilizing. It is a country that resists oblivion that there has been buried in the Fossar, the same way that it is a country that does not have the dead present that still remain buried in the vorals and the common ones. Let us remember that Cambodia alone has more disappeared and dead to exhume than the Spanish State. It is an imperfect country, surely, but it is a country that reacts before racism, it is a country that values its public school and that defends its health with teeth; a country that has defended the territory, that has defended its rivers and that has also remembered, with very important mobilizations, that we can no longer lose a land and a drop of water. It's not the best country in the world, but there are a lot of people who work and will continue to work because the country is better every day. And with people and the country and with a majority in favour of democracy, there are conditions to celebrate a referendum. Say it plainly, but say it'referendum'. We know that in this Spanish State there will not be an agreement for a referendum, for many reasons: because the demand has been repeated on different occasions, and it has been denied; because the majority of Parliamentarians in Congress do not recognize us the condition of birth with the ability to decide, and because authorizing a referendum here would mean authorizing it also to the Basque Country and this is already the definitive fission of the Spanish political system the heir of the Francoism. It won't be agreed, because if we were there, we wouldn't be negotiating the date of celebration. Together for the Yes insists on the agreed way, Catalunya Yes it is Pot·s alleged that it is the reason that they have long ago had. Insist on the agreed path; for us it is a non-existent path. Even so, we believe that the majority of the country does not see the path agreed, because the majority of the country has listened to the statements of the party spokespersons with the majority at the Congress. The majority of the country and the people waiting for a referendum to reach independence do not believe in the agreed path. But, moreover, for us the agreed path is a way that runs the risk of deactivation of the strength of mobilization; it runs the risk of placing the imaginary collection in a subordinate logic; we run the risk of undermining the lack of democracy of the Spanish State, and what would be hot is, precisely, adding people to the complaint of the lack of democracy of the Spanish State. The virtue is not so much to sum up representatives of other parties in the referendum petition, but the virtue is to sum up the vast majority decided and empowered in the demand for this referendum. The virtue is to dispel the excuse that certain political formations have used in order not to face the crux of the lack of democratic depth of the State, and to add vast majority of the population in the search for the resolution of the political and democratic conflict in the Spanish State. The agreed path is your thing. On this path, on the path of the pact and the path of subordination, you will not find us. If it seems to you, meanwhile, we will maintain the tensor of determination and become effective at the trinxera of democracy, which is that of unilaterality. The CUP - Constituent Creed we asked to put the reference as a democratic instrument of culmination of the legislature last June, and we talk about reference, and there is no substitute: no participatory process, no popular consultation, no new plebiscite elections, no constituent elections. You said it yourself yesterday: "Let us refer to or refer to. Some have understood that the reference was a requirement of the CUP - Constituent Creed. We place things at the place where they correspond by their transcendence: the reference is not, cannot be and will not be partyist. The reference is the way to democratically resolve the conflict with the Spanish State. The reference is to give the people of this country the opportunity to express themselves in the wake of a binary question: "Does Catalonia want to become an independent republic? Yes or no. In the history of countries and nations, references of self-determination or never arrive or when they arrive are a historical tape. And the reference must be the main political vector, the mobilization engine and the central lane of determination, institutions and people, from today. A reference that has to have all the guarantees and a participatory phase of the process is that it has to have the necessary means to be able to confront the boycott of the State and to facilitate the instruments of popular participation that are right to lay the foundations of the republic. A participatory phase of the process that will, with complete certainty, become the best campaign for the self to independence, because it will put into evidence that we open up the possibility to decide everything. In the marc of the State, in change, there will be no margin to decide anything. We have agreed to vote in favour of the question of trust, the fact that you have defended the way of the pact with the State, so that everyone knows – you probably know the first, and the lords of Madrid at the same time – that you have not resorted to it. And we have agreed to vote in favour because we will look for all the guarantees so that if this way does not pull forward, you, and the government that you preside over, will pull forward and organize a self-determination referendum until its last consequences. We have agreed to vote in favour of it, not so much because until now we have seen that it was working in the direction necessary to achieve independence, but because we have seen that now, to place the main axis of its political action in that which must finally resolve the conflict that we have in the State seems good to us. And we, you know, are prepared for unilaterality and disobedience. This means that we expect you to do whatever you want to do to make the reference, until the later consequences. We'll be attentive and vigilant until he's not famous, the same way we'll work with anyone else to celebrate him. We demand compliments without respite, because we will work for the reference without respite either. In the own general policy debate it will be necessary to set a reference date for self-determination, set up operations, legal mechanisms and executes on what to support it. We have admitted to voting in favour of trust because trust is not an act of faith. Trust, as you said yourself, is not a vote, and less often followed. Trust, in the context of a people to which the right to decide is denied, can only be based on facts. It can only be based, precisely, on the determination to exercise the right to self-determination, regardless of what they do, precisely, those who deny us that right. And for a moment to those who deny us this right, and in reference, too, to what was done yesterday. The weakness of the State is not so long as it has not conformed to government at all this time, or that it has a government in function from now on, the genuine weakness of the State is that it does not have a hint of a solution to the two main problems it has since the Transition: the democratic conflict with its nations and the economic system that has led to a state with the highest inequality indexes in Europe, with all the replicas that this has at the material level, at the aesthetic level and at the moral level. On the other hand, it is important to remember that the State is not just who governs it, it is not the execution, it would not be exactly that. The State is the army, the high judiciary, the judiciary, the business hub of the IBEX 35, the one that buys volunteers, the one that builds revolving doors, the one that plays with displacements and tax fraud... The State is also its keystones. And today, more than yesterday, bipartisanism has made the bunker stronger. The artifexes of the 78's are the same as that of the current one. To the representatives of the bailiff, in fact, we have nothing to say. « Conflict or conflict, they say. « Fractures or fractures. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But on the left, on the democrats, yes. And we know that I am the majority that you see clearly that in this state there is no margin and we need you to represent the values that are fundamental to you. This is to keep in mind that we need to move from rhetoric to fact and that you need to continue to win the right to democracy: we want you at the side of democracy and not denial on the part of the Spanish State. We want to, and we think we need to ask you for determination and make everyone give their voice and make it now when I talk to people and stop talking to us. This is the self-determination reference: the key that opens all the panels. You said today that every block in the state has a Catalan response. We say that every block in the state has a democratic response. And that was precisely the statement of 9 November, which already provided for the coups of the State, and just claimed not to pose us in the trench of the coup d'état judicial, but to work to suffice a trench of democracy. That 9-N statement forms part, and continues to form part, of the chain of trust that you want to build. And it's that you yourself said yesterday that one of the main commitments is to comply with Parliament's mandates. Without completing what is approved, neither can it govern well, and that is why on the way to the reference we would do well to complete what we approved seventy-two Members. I, therefore, when the Constitutional Court suspends the law of housing, Catalan response or democratic response: more housing rights and no denunciation. When the State denies the operation to gather people in search of refugees, Catalan response in the gathering of refugees. When the People's Party denounces people to cremate symbolically constitutions, Catalan response: squad leader chasing these people's offices. Because by trapping the prohibition of unjust laws, by trapping the demands that have been made to the electorate of this country, that have been investigated and prosecuted only for having approved motions for support of the 9-N statements to its plenary, we do not believe that we are coming far. Stylishly trampling to final disobedience? No, not for us. We trust the people who did not want to be an accomplice to the National Audience, we trust the people who are already working for a process constitute, we trust those who will do everything they know, because the republic is not designed at all. It will be done in the street and among all, with the traditionally outcasts of major decision-making presses. We trust that this country, if it enrolls in a process that is popular and low, will be able to lay the foundations of a constitution that looks to the left and to the dignity. We trust those who do not prioritise private interests, party interests, or sleep in armchairs, trust the utopians, who never open headlines, nor will they ever be interviewed in the middle, but who have as the motor of their daily lives the defense of the rights of the weakest. Trust those who have lost eyes, or still feel the pains of fucking shots because they have come out on the street on days of general vagaries, in defense of all. Because GDP may grow and perhaps it has increased in five quarters as a result, but also the demands for food grants grow, inequality in this country grows and democracy is built in the polls, but it is also built at home, at schools and in hospitals. And public office and public proviso services are essential so that we can establish the foundations of a republic that is worthy of those that preceded us in the struggle for the Second Republic also at our home. And we place the rest of the world to watch as in the old Europe there are values that are neither nihilism, nor despair, nor racism, nor xenophobia, nor alternatives. We place the popular democracy movement to work for the referendum and we place the independence movement to work for the ‘yes' to the referendum. In fact, the mobilized people is the only guarantee we have. Place me together with political and social actors from the Catalan Countries committed to democracy to defend the right to self-determination because what today is a majority demand in this part of the country, tomorrow it must also be possible to be at the conjunction of the Catalan Countries. Let us replace the conjunction of the internationalist movement which expresses itself in a solidary claus, which gathers our work to open spaces of freedom in a European Union that is strong and that denies freedom; that our freedom will also be its own. That at the edge of the Mediterranean, in this raccoon of the Catalan Countries, there is a boat bearing the name of reference, republic and independence to change everything; that at the edge of the Mediterranean, in this raccoon of the Catalan Countries, trust is in its people. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.69.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.70.0	Good afternoon. Mrs. Gabriel, your first words, of your intervention, I will not say that I was surprised, but obviously I can already count that we are all concerned about the problems of the most vulnerable people in the world. We are all concerned about the people who want to get out of their country because there is a war, about the people threatened by the consequences of climate change, about the people who cannot work freely or who cannot defend a life and professional project in their country for a multitude of reasons we share. Therefore, from this point of view, well, there was a moment that seemed to me to be perhaps the fruit of another debate, but after you say: "No, it is here that we must do everything in our hands to be able to fight it. Yeah. Yes, yes, we do, and our contribution to improving, for example, the living conditions of the most vulnerable; to helping to mitigate the effects of climate change; to try to mitigate the effects of wars and to embrace, for example, refugees, our commitment lies in this Parliament with concrete facts and with concrete policies that have immediate and concrete benefits, if any. And one of the direct consequences of the non-approval of the assumptions is that a lot of this vulnerable people, which you have generically described in the first part of your intervention, this year have run out of resources that this government could allocate to improve its living conditions. So when we call on what we can do all the folds to improve the living conditions of vulnerable people, let us first ask ourselves: have we done everything we can? Did it cost so much to vote on a premise that it clearly improved from where we came? Was it worth it that people who couldn't enjoy this benefit, people who needed it, who still need it now, don't get this deal from the government because maybe we didn't get as far as it seemed to be? I don't think it's worth it, and therefore I think it's essential that we have this debate today that we don't have to escape from. This debate is for a simple reason: because you did not complete the parliamentary stabilisation agreement. To have completed his word – you say: "We have our word – today we would not be discussing the question of trust and, in any case, we would be discussing, surely – because it was always going to the beginning of the political course – consequences, let's say, of the application of the premise and whether we were able to complete it or not with the assumption that we had said we would do it; we would be doing this. And today we could say, and we could present some data with regard to waiting lists, with regard to third-year residences, with regard to the most disadvantaged, much better. And, therefore, it is clear that we are here because we have had reasonable doubts and palpable evidence that the sign has not been fulfilled. It's more, I felt myself being told here that the pacts were changing. And so, when the conviction, let's say, of the compromise to the given word is placed on the table, it seems to me that this is incompatible with the fact that the pacts can change and can change. In short, let us not deviate from the question: we are here for this. And I don't think we have to take away the responsibility that we all have for the reality that we have. They did not negotiate the premises in Parliament; it is not true that there was a willingness to negotiate them. The willingness to negotiate is demonstrated by allowing the assumptions to be processed, and by allowing it to be debated, and by allowing, if appropriate, the papers to be enclosed, because we have never said that the assumptions that come out approved by Parliament must be exactly the same as the government enters. They don't sound so pretentious; they think they can get better. Moreover, we believe that there are groups, not just you, but other groups of this chamber, that have perfect right and ability to improve these assumptions, and we are willing to accept the contributions that the groups that want to improve the assumptions make. So, how does the will to approve the assumptions prove? Allow us the debate. And that didn't happen, and that can't happen again. I think I made it clear yesterday, and I hope... and I think that's how it went. We don't ask for a white card to press and..., we ask for a white card to speak clearly. And unprocessed assumptions are rejected assumptions. And some presuppositions in the parliamentary process are unworkable presuppositions. And, therefore, it is tantamount to not having the assumptions that make possible the application of the government program that this Parliament voted for and that is still in force. It's true that we have to work a lot and that we can't give – I said it more than once – for sure..., we didn't come here to say that everyone has to sign a blank cheque with what the government does. I think we have shown that we are making efforts to listen, to listen to the wide spectrum that is gathered here in the Parliament of Catalonia; if it is appropriate, to incorporate modifications; to have a great ability to try to understand which is the position of the other in order to add majorities. And, in this sense, they believe that the compromise reiterates that I want to express another time here is precisely to create a majority project. Now, we have to ask ourselves, when we are talking about majorities, which majorities we are talking about; that the majority that for five years has manifested itself and that fills the ballot boxes when it is required to do so is a very different, very cross-sectional majority; it is not the majority of a concentration where is cream flags, it is a majority made up of people of a social, economic, cultural, linguistic diversity, very varied. And this is the central current of this country. And when we talk about majorities, it's good for us to look at this majority. The majority were at the demonstration of the millions of people who went out on the street; the majority were not in the group that cremated flags. And this is the path from which we do not want to deviate, because it must be clear that, if we want some assumptions, they must be possible, viable, useful assumptions; indeed, some assumptions of the majority. To make a few minority assumptions, we wouldn't be here. It's more, with minorities it doesn't fill the ballot boxes. And, as I said yesterday, they are the central classes of this country, formed by self-employed workers, by hardworking people, by retired people, by small entrepreneurs, by big entrepreneurs, by people who believe in God and people who don't believe in it, by people who like football and people who hate it. The majority are these. And it's with these people who fill the streets. And it's with these people that one day we'll fill the ballot boxes. And we need them all; all, absolutely, there's no one left. So when we make a premise, when we decide politics, what we have to use is the big angle, in place of the teleobjectio – a big angle, of the 21st..., or I don't know if there is any slow, like that of the photographer, who assigns it to me, that it is still wider; the fish's eye doesn't call, that distorts mass – but the big angle, to try to fit the maximum number of people in the central thick of the city. Do not scare them the central word, do not scare them the majority current. There are minorities and there are and they must be respected, and they must be incorporated, of course, but, yes, we say, the result... democracy is done with the aggregation of many people, and if we are not able to do so, we do not pose ourselves. That's why we've posed ourselves, because the street and people have shown us what they want, and because when they've voted we've shown what they want, and because we want to finish the legislature we have to be inevitably faithful to the government program approved for this Parliament, that it's the government program for Junts for the Yes, because it's the one that people voted for, and it's voted for in this Parliament, and because it's the sum of a job, also, of integrating many, also, and various sensitivities, different looks, that they made the effort to agree on a government program, and it's voted in this Parliament, and because it's the sum of a job, also, of integrating many, also, and various sensitivities, different looks, that they made an effort to make themselves agree on a government program – an electoral program and after a government program – that was aimed at the majority of the citizenship, because it's social – and it's service is the government's service, and it's service of the strength of the better. And to do so there are various ways. The first is to use today's resources, the ones we have today; not the ones we will have in two, three years in normal country conditions, the ones we have today. And even though they're conditioned on a disillusioned government and some laws that are often unfair and some courts on their side, even though that's the case, we decide to play, because we don't want to let people out. And why does it make it difficult for us to pass laws in this Parliament or, ultimately, the policies they pursue, the same; we get up and continue to help people; we don't expect that there are ideal conditions or we don't seek confrontation, let's say, rhetorical to the hope of a wonderful solution, but what we do is: we work to make the most of the potential of resources, and now, as we go, we build an independent state. And two things have to be done. Actually, we want to do both. And that's why, too, when we talk about the week you see in the general policy debate, it will prove that we are doing exactly the two things, that is that double agenda that I said on the 10th of January; this government will work with this double agenda. And that's why we're doing the reference. And that's why we work, referendum. I only ask them that..., you are aware that we will have a lot of obstacles out there, in they are aware of that, I suppose, that there will be a lot of obstacles out there, I only ask that we do not add to it, because if we do the interbank route the reference is inviable; let's say it clearly: the reference is inviable. Or we make every effort to get as united as possible, to try to leave legitimate – legitimate – partisan positions and to defend models of society that are certainly counterposed..., if we don't make a little effort – or, perhaps, enough – we won't be able to organize a referendum. And if we organize it, people won't believe us; because we'll ask the people, a mobilization effort that we haven't been able to do. Either we put the piles and we don't divert a single gram from the burden of the citizens, and we don't take advantage of the circumstances in which the government is found, which actually doesn't have a majority on its own with its parliamentary group, or we won't get out of it. That's why it was important that we spoke clearly today, yesterday and today, and I think everyone did. Jo, atmenys, I hope I did. And I hope that from my words I can understand this willingness to go all the way, to do it well and to do it with everyone's trust. You said you trusted a lot of people, so did I. I trust, and I believe that the majority of this country trusts it, in that autonomy that every day rises up and curses to defend tickets that no one guarantees it. I trust people who are in the middle of the day and who strive every day to improve their training or to look for work, and they don't resign to the first of us, because they will find a lot of them. I trust entrepreneurs who make use of the benefits they get to invest in research and innovation and to improve the working conditions of their employees. I trust the masters, the meths, the firemen, the police, all those who have seen their purchasing power, and who, however, every day, when they play, raise the blind of the public service and do it well no, very well. I trust all these people. And this is the central bulk of this country, and it is with these people, without exclusions, with whom we will make a new country and do it among all, I insist, without exclusions, and without apprehensions, as at least, partisans. That is why I am waiting for the confidence of the people I share this visit, with legitimate differences, even with legitimate confrontations, but I believe that this country, that people who... the country, we have a good people's country, who have mobilized so many times as we have asked, and who know that if we ask for it to be mobilized again, these people deserve to let the French people tell us about political policy for other occasions, and that now it is important to make national politics, in fact, and that, in this moment in which Parliament is found, that for the first time in history it is necessary to resolve a question of trust, and that we take advantage of the opportunity to say that in this moment the confidence of the woman, which is at the very end of the belief, is at the very end that it is possible to establish the trust that is at the very end. And if it doesn't have to be that way, if it has to be missing some trunk in this chain of trust, it won't work. Tell us now clearly and act accordingly. But if the decision of the Parliament of Catalonia is to stop this parliamentary term, I reiterate my commitment to complete with all and each of the objectives that I specified in my speech yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.71.0	Thank you very much, President. Next, there's the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.72.0	Well, thank you very much. Perhaps I have explained myself very badly; in fact, I have tried to read so as not to explain myself badly. Perhaps I have read very poorly, because with regard to the majority and minorities I think that it was not intended or could not be heard or could not make the sense of what we were just about to come up with. We know how to distinguish perfectly between what majorities and minorities are, and, in fact, we know how to hear and distinguish perfectly the majorities that are manifested in certain mobilizations– he clearly referred to the independence mobilizations of the later years– and also to other massive mobilizations– we have not said'majorities'– which, for example, encapsulates combat trade unionism. And we can distinguish it because we're on the spot. We're also on mobilizations where there's flag cream. We know perfectly well what kind of people are mobilized in each of these spaces, so that we may differ from some of us in many spaces. We know perfectly well what the boat of the majority mobilization of the 11th of September is, what is the feeling of fighting unionism and the black block, and we know perfectly well how he lives or how he tries to survive a good part of the people who go to the mobilizations where are cream flags. Therefore, we know how to distinguish perfectly, I believe, what is the reality of the country we have; but when we call upon the majority we need precisely in this reference and who are supporters of the yes, we are referring to the majority, indeed, and we are not only referring to minorities. And we are respectful of the majority and we ask that they also be with the minorities, because very often the countries have advanced and the rights have been achieved because there have been strong minorities, because the minorities are not only quantity, because the minorities, above all, often have been ahead, and because many times they have opened up the way, and because many times only one person has put the United States' apartheid system out of order. [[Greetings.]] By all means, the CEO's question, which is somehow not capable of being manipulated by the CUP, today itself says that there are 70_percent of people who agree to push the taxes they most have, 70_percent of the people who express themselves in this key is not actually people of the independenceist left. To these majorities we call when we say that we must have instruments that are in agreement, precisely, with these majorities. I therefore believe that we have understood this feeling and that we can, at all events, continue to delve into the debate of the majority and minorities, because it is very interesting. There are powerful minorities who have much more power than major unarmed ones who only have the street to express themselves. That's also a good thing to know. About idealistic politics or real politics from day to day, I think we also know a little, humbly, huh? And certainly not as much as the 30 years ago, therefore, that they think in these fallows, but we are at the gatherings, and at the gatherings we know perfectly well that it is also up to us to manage day by day, that we try to exceed the limits that the municipal institution has, but that we curse, effectively, to give answer to the concerns, the demands and the needs that people have in their day by day. So, if you want to, too, we go deeper into day-to-day and day-to-day management, but we prefer that you never forget the timing of utopia so that you don't become managers of misery, which is what has been happening in this country for a long time. But we are going to talk, we think, about what is basically important, about what was announced yesterday and what could be talked about today, that for us it is this reference that has to be completed by the legislature. And we believe that we have the right – after having seen the interventions of the different spokespersons of the parliamentary groups – to face the mockery, the scorn, the ridicule to which some support us because we want to exercise democratic radicality. There are people who enjoy knowing that there are people who can't express themselves, and they laugh, and ridicule us and humiliate us. And with that, we'll have to be very strong, because they don't make us weak and because we keep our heads high defending democracy. There are people who have decided who are the real problems of the people. They've decided that people's real problems are some, and they're not others. There are millions of people in this country who believe that for them, for us, it is a real problem the relationship we have with the Spanish State, but it is seen that these people do not care. The real problems have to be just one, and not another, and then we have to hear ourselves say that we are the ones who fragment the country and divide society. And I think it's obvious that it's you who don't have any plans for the future for this country. I suppose it's also part of the colonial mindset to decide what's good and what's true about the settlement. In fact, the Spanish State does not just sit on the 78th Regime, it also sits on a bad past, heir to the expulsion of Jews and Muslims and genocide. This is the colonial mentality, which decides what is true or what is not true, what is real or what is not real. But it is that we have also heard, and we have had to hear ourselves say, mockery and scorn of the unilateral way, as if the few examples of treaty references that have been made in the world have not begun, good part of them, by the unilateral way. But it's that, besides, in a country four days ago... where people were fighting against Francoism, and they were doing it unilaterally, because anti-Franquists couldn't, they didn't want to, and fortunately they didn't wait for a path agreed upon with Francoism. He told Miguel Núñez... [[Some applause.]] Tell Miguel Núñez if he was expecting a pact with the State to end the torture they had nine days stuck in Via Laietana. Tell the Tomasa Cuevas, who turned his body into a courier to the Communist Party; tell the Tomasa Cuevas if the unilateral way was not very serious. The struggle against the dictatorship was not easy either; in fact, there were people who secretly chose, with all determination, by unilateral means and by disobedience. Tell them to the maquis, if there was social strength, in Francois Spain, it would be necessary to drop the franchise; it was not there, but they had clear what way they were going and what was going on in the mountains. We know that after sleep was school, it turned into transition, but that's another story. Therefore, if we want to face all these argumental batteries that curse to deny our rights, we have to disarm them with the only one they have, that they are social policies; social policies, because then, when they govern, they do not implement them, that they are the first to retaliate, that they are the first to privatize, but that they come here to fill their mouths to say that the independentist project will not be accompanied by social policies. And we want to disarm precisely this argument, because when we finish with this argument, there's absolutely no way out of it. And we must not pretend to assimilate or meddle, the country is diverse, has colors, landscapes, various smells, and has revolutionaries and counter-revolutionaries. We have not come here to address the revolution or counter-revolution, but we have come here to address a democratic project that we need to win and that, in order to win it, we believe that, humbly, we can contribute to it by laying on the table what we have put on the table today: democracy is built in the polls, but also in the schools, in the hospitals and in the houses of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.73.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. The president wants to use the word? [[Pause.]] Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.74.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Lords and Members of Parliament, I take the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group to announce the vote in favour of the question of confidence raised by President Puigdemont, and to say, moreover, that it will be an honour on our part to be an active part of this chain of trust, which was then sent to the Chamber and to the citizenry. I already know that maybe that's no surprise or novelty for anyone, and maybe that's why some might think that we could leave it here already, or some would like us to leave it here already. But it won't be like that. First, because, obviously, we want to explain the reasons for this favourable vote. Because we do not vote in favour of this question of trust for what it touches, because the president forms part of our parliamentary group; we vote for many things. And secondly, we will not leave it here because we do not want to take this opportunity to leave some questions open; some, referring to the determination of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes to complete the democratic mandate of 27 September, and others, to challenge, therefore, some statements that have been made by some other parliamentary groups, that do not conform to reality, or to try to combat, therefore, some mental marches that are trying to impose or that are being beaten by hammers, and that do not go to the "shudder" because we want to fight it. Let me today, from Junts to Yes, therefore, focus a lot on trust and determination to culminate in the process that must lead us to the independence of Catalonia. In the meantime, the day-to-day rule of good governance respects the more sectoral aspects is not that we don't want to talk about it, and as long as we do, and we will do it with all the breadth that they want, contrasting everything that they want the week they see in the general policy debate. However, yesterday the president has already done enough brushing, and today he has also donated data to find that this government is concerned and concerned and acts in this meantime. I already know that some of us today want to lose sight of us and make an ordinary general debate here, as if the democratic mandate that came out of September 27 was ordinary, this was an ordinary legislature, and we, Together for the Yes, were an ordinary parliamentary group. But, obviously, that's not the point. And we won't get tired of repeating it, and we won't get it out of our heads, because we know perfectly well why the citizens brought us here to Parliament. Some of you have come here to do a little the usual, the usual politics; more disguised of new politics, less disguised of new politics, but have come, a little, to make a debate, a little of always, haven't you? , at the nyic-nyec, at the short glance, etcetera. We in many things of this we will not enter, because we have much work ahead of us; because, to us, the people here have brought us to build a new state, and we will dedicate ourselves from the Parliament to building a new state, because we have all the democratic legitimacy to do so. Mrs. Arrimadas said that the president had no political authority, and said "nor moral to do so." [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes... "political and moral. More than two... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He said so. More than 2 million votes, according to the seventy-two Members. All the mobilizations that have been made, etc., will you explain to us that you have more legitimacy with the representation that you have because we don't do it? So we'll focus on that. You know perfectly well that the elections of 27 September were not called because there was a crisis of government, they were not called for the loss of parliamentary stability, they were called before the impossibility of asking the Catalans what future we wanted for our country. And the only way to put the ballot boxes, then, was just this. And all the campaigns of all the candidatures revolved around this question: about the bonds and the need for Catalonia to become an independent state. We..., and about the calamities and the seven plagues that would come on the part of the others about the independence of Catalonia. This means that the election result that would come out, in one sense or another, was a very clear and very explicit mandate. And I also remember that, moreover, on the part of our parliamentary group there was a very direct and very concrete compromise on the time to develop this step, not in a four-year period, but in those famous divisions. And together for the Yes – and let's not stop saying this – it was not an ordinary candidacy, it was a candidacy to facilitate the yes, yes to the independence of Catalonia, formed by people of very different and different origins and political sensitivities, but attached to the service of the same cause. And, therefore, we know very well what is the burden we have and what is the reason why we are here in Parliament. That is why the debate on this question of trust, just as it was on the investiture, cannot be raised – or, at least, we do not set up, as I said before – as if the elections had been ordered for an ordinary parliamentary legislature with ordinary parliamentary groups, because, I insist, it is a good thing. And located here, we assume, from Juntes for the Yes, what is the most logical, elementary in democracy and is our absolute determination to complete our commitment to the citizens. Because we're here for them, they're not there for us, as it seems to draw 'from some intervention I've heard from someone. And we're here for them and we have to do what we committed to them. And we want to do it well, as the President said: "To do it, to do it well, to do it together, precisely, to make it possible. And in doing it, doing it right to do it possible there is also to see that this question of trust has been raised. The president yesterday referred to it a lot and I will not repeat it in all its extremes, the reasons for this question of trust, but we have always said that, precisely because of the exceptionality of what we were doing and what we were going to do, this path cannot be based on baptisms and that instability was not and is not a cabal ingredient. And not to approve the assumptions, so, it's a big and strong one. And the president, in an act of leadership, of courage and political honesty, raised this question of trust. Now, standing here, as I've said before, it's a good thing that there's no harm in not coming, because, at a time like the present when we look at the most decisive final line, it's not a bad thing to ratify, to review what we need to face with major guarantees and to stabilize this final tram. Because of the obstacles and difficulties we will have and many, and we must conjure ourselves because these obstacles and difficulties that we will have come to us, only and exclusively, from the outside. And, therefore, it is not bad to do this question of trust, if it is to be used, as I said, to clarify what it is and, above all, to give a new boost on this final tram. And yesterday the president responded to all these expectations. And, therefore, we before what the President explained to us yesterday, we just have to say one thing: President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors have, all of us, the confidence of all of us. First place, why? For the same reasons we were going to vote in favour of the investiture. But it is that, moreover, they now have our confidence because we can do so with a greater knowledge of the cause because we are witnesses so much of their way of exercising the presidency, the action of the government, etc., as of their determination to complete the democratic mandate of the citizens of now a year ago. And, besides, they've made no excuses, with the times, so, with which we've committed ourselves. From now on, we don't have the slightest doubt, and the actions and facts that prove it, from the determination of this government to make Catalonia an independent state, despite the many difficulties that have gone out. This president and this government did not equal or encourage what had been predicted. If we say that we respect the work that we have to do since Parliament, we are, at these times, we have planned to be and we have done our dues and we will follow them, the President and the Government are also and have done what, in these first months of the investiture, was expected to do, despite interbanks, some important ones that have come from outside and – we must not deny it and that is why we are also here – some important ones that have come from within. And that still gives more value to the work done, which, despite these obstacles, has continued to move forward. And, therefore, to ratify our trust and security that if yesterday the president tells us that by June we are prepared for disconnection with the Spanish State, we believe that. President, you have the certainty that, despite all the intentions that you will have because there will be no parliamentary filibusterism, threats from courts, prosecutors, etc., in the part that we share with you, this Parliament, in which you take Juntes for the Yes, in June, we will be able to and will have the laws of disconnection to do with rigour and certainly to the fact that you leave us yesterday from the law to the law. Whatever it takes from us, that'll be right there. No threat from the state's general prosecutor, much as I shout and want to intimidate, will stop us; it has not done so until now and will not do so. No threat from any court, constitutionally speaking, that it has not put up with us, nor will it do so in the future. Neither of the multiple performances, not of the state keyloggers, but of a state converted into a keylogger for what it does to the process of Catalonia. He hasn't put up with us yet, he won't put up with us later. We are, President, Government, Parliament, where we said we would be. We're working on it. By the way of the facts is shown the courage and determination, and it has proved itself. Secondly, we will vote in favour of this question of confidence, for which the President proposed to us yesterday. The president proposed to us and concretely who are the steps that you think should be taken from here until the summer comes, as we have to face and as we have to do, and we share it. The President has made it clear, has made it clear and has been necessary, has spoken clearly and Catalanly and without beginnings. And that's also in value, very in value. The one that is intended to pull forward and complete the process and to complete the independence of Catalonia, for which we felt yesterday, would be in a thick, telegraphic way, the one that we understand, the next: or trust and chain of trust, and if it is given with all consequences, or let it run, because, if not, it cannot go forward. Move forward without baptisms and interbanks, which means assumptions, because without assumptions, let it run. Offer to the State for this process and this way I want to do it in an agreed manner. Do it in time compromises with the citizens of Catalonia. Our only masters throughout this process will be the citizens of Catalonia, and that's why the ballot box is in the ballot box, and that's why we're referring to or referring to. And that, President, we fully share, all of us. I repeat: we all fully share it. I am sorry for the prophets and proclaimers of the tensions, divisions and I do not know how many more theories of the conspiracy that have been written these days, such as the government and this parliamentary group, we faced this question of confidence. I'm so sorry about them. If they really care about a summary of the state of life, of how we look at this parliamentary group, the next few months, I summarize it very briefly: we are all at one and all at one. I repeat [[applause]] : we're all going to one and all. The President has been very clear and very precise – and we also value this – in a context that is not easy, to be the most clear and the most accurate. In particular, President, it was more than expected, and we appreciate it very positively. And I say in this context and « more than expected because we are ahead of a state that I don't think is responding to where the cat doesn't work, and that is a state that even handles the presentation posts of the advisors, or the presentation posts of the permanent representatives of the European Union. We're in front of a state that threatens us and challenges everything, but I think until the end of the ridiculous. That is why we fully understand that some details have not been explained to you. We understand it and we share it, because naivety doesn't need to inform me of this final tram to independence. And that's why some things have to be explained when they can explain, and not before. And, so, trust goes, too. And so, too, is the chain of trust that the president asked of us. Trust is tea or not, and if we have it among all of us, it has to be with all the consequences. And we, here, in this chain of trust, want to be. We fully share with the President the link of trust in the assumptions, fully. It is not logical to trust some actions, but to prevent resources from being available to take them forward. If you are prepared with all the structures of the state, or also to give a new impulse or greater impulse to external action, or to prepare all the logistics of the reference, it does not make sense to say yes to this, but without delay, because then we would do Gimberto's business with the goats, and then we would do or rallify the ridiculous. And, therefore, we are sure that there will be assumptions, and we share the need, to pull forward, that there are assumptions. And we fully trust that the good work of Vice President Junqueras and the good predisposition we understand from the CUP will make this not an obstacle and we can pull forward. Mr. Iceta, if you want to, you're invited to the party. We didn't invite him to the other one, the other one was just a surprise party, but, if you want, this year, we'll invite him to the party... [[Funnel veils]] - No, no, no, But he will understand that we agree with whom we share the same objective, which is the independence of Catalonia. Yesterday the president also proposed more determination for more democracy: "referendum or referendum. And so, President, we value it and we value it very positively. First, because they don't do us through the polls, to us, and because we have internalized, with all the consequences – as the same president said and we said today – that our only citizens are the citizens of Catalonia. But, in addition, we are convinced that because of the democratic deepening, it is how it can incorporate more people into the cause of Catalonia becoming an independent state. Many, of course, will take the step not for reasons of independent conviction, they will take the step if they see that we continue to count with all the citizens and that the citizens will be protagonists and not mere spectators of every step, in contrast to a Spanish State of a democratic quality every time more and more deficient. Because people in full 21st century want to be and feel citizens and not subjects. After each ballot box we see the value and opinion of each person alike. We are in the ballot box and the Spanish State is the one in the fight to put the ballot box. That's the big difference. A Spanish state that, as the president pointed out yesterday... – I also mentioned these days, and it's already greasy that we're going to refer to these terms – we're in front of a Spanish state that makes it more because of the ballot box than the weapons. And that's pretty unfortunate, [[remorse of the voice]] Because with the weapons they've been sitting there and with the ballot box they don't want to talk about it. And a lot of people before that will open their eyes and say, "What do I do in a state like this, with such deceiving democratic convictions." That's why, for us, everything that's deep democratic doesn't make us feel like it. We value, too, President, the offer to agree with the Spanish State – or try, or offer it – the reference. And we heard it solemnly and honestly, as we also understood that if we get, in the best of cases, silence by response, that's not all we can do, and we're not still waiting, and we're not with open arms. Meanwhile, we're moving forward on the planned plan, preparing the reference. And if the State has come along, like this is a referendum or referendum, as the saying goes: feina feta has no trouble. This, this offer, it's no less, and I think it's a good note for everyone. Those who still have a sigh of hope that the State will have a minimum of sensitivity, or that it is forced by events, to face this issue. Or that something will change to the Spanish State. It's good that offer because the world sees that while it ran, no matter how difficult the conflicts are, everyone sat on a table talking to us, the Spanish State, with us, or that. He won't stay for us, and the world will see him. And he'll understand better why it's all folded up. Connected to this of the world, we also share the importance they give to foreign action, the president and the government. Going to explain to the world is basic, it's determinant. The moment we take the step, the world has to know exactly what we do, why we do it, and how we do it. And we also appreciate the work that has been done so far, since the beginning of the legislature, and that here we must devote our efforts and resources to it. Mr. Iceta made a joke and asked how many ministers we believed... Don't worry, Mr. Iceta, because where the Romeva Councillor doesn't arrive, because the day has twenty-and-four hours, there will come, therefore, the geniuses of Mr. Margallo, with all his external action, because even all that he has done is, before the United Nations, not a ministry, before the United Nations, proclaiming that the process towards the independence of Catalonia goes to all the machine. And where we don't get there, Mr. Margallo will help us. Mrs. Arrimadas, Mr. Margallo, who has more information than you, says we're going all the way, we're not on a static bike, I can assure you, because if we're on a static bike, I wouldn't talk... [[voice remorse and applause]] I wouldn't talk about Catalonia gathering where it is. I want to look for these international complicitys, I insist, because I need to do a lot of pedagogy, which can be contrasted – which can be contrasted – as we do: with ballot boxes, in a peaceful, positive way, of democratic arrangements. And who can also know how the Spanish State does it: with threats, with intimidation, with quarrels, with the worst arts. That goes for democracy. And another mantra that you're trying to get into people, you've been saying, and today Mr Albiol said, that we're carrying democracy, that we're taking a look at democracy... you know what's a shot at democracy, taking a look at democracy? The one that Mr. Fernández Diaz does and his whole band, because they're a band– they're a band– [[applause]] , because even though it is a barrier of The Godfather and Torrente, the dumb arm of the law [[relays]] They're a band that's called Operation Catalonia, which dedicates thousands of euros – thousands of euros – and these guys see that they don't criticize them, to destroy people so they don't think like them. That's a bit of a democracy act. [[Some applause.]] What's once in democracy, Mr Albiol, is to hold the state attorney general as if he were the major butler of La Moncloa; that's to carry democracy. And, above all, to charge democracy, Mr Albiol and Mr Arrimadas, and to give a blow to democracy, is to try, in a dispatch for a failed investiture, to charge the linguistic immersion in Catalonia, that Catalonia, more than 80 and 90_percent of the people, has always been in favor. That's how democracy gets carried away. [[Greetings.]] That's carrying on democracy. To put the ballot box – to put the ballot box –, to give people a voice is never a time to democracy, it is to strengthen democracy, it is to treat people as citizens and not as subjects. And that's why, for this purpose, what happened, what the president proposed to us, that we want to vote for it. I would like – and as I said before, necessarily – to take advantage of the time we have, to make some reference to the interventions of the other parliamentary groups, because, obviously, as Juntes for the Yes we have rejected, and enough. And obviously, therefore, we also want to position ourselves with respect to what the other interventions have been, right? I'll start talking to the CUP. I'll be too short to spat it out. [[rialles and some pick of hands]] – I'll be too short to spat it out – [[the timer riu]] But only to say that Mrs. Gabriel has spoken to us about many things. I said that of many, we would talk about it in the general policy debate, but we understand, first, that to transform reality the first one we have to do is to recognize reality, because according to which demands it is fan, because of the possibilities that Catalonia now has, to many of them hardly..., we cannot give an answer. And, surely, what unites us is to have the instruments that any one has in order to give a greater answer, because to make – as we have said many times – effective the most just causes in Catalonia, each defending those who believe, first we have to win the noblest cause of all birth, that is to be independent. And then, another thing, we don't have to give any more evidence of our determination and courage. I want to reflect on them: as important as not having that for not doing for, if we want to be more, because if we spend the day saying we don't have for someone he'll think there's a reason to have, and he'll have for. And I think there are so many reasons to dedicate our speech to illusion and hope, because we are doing better, because this has to live better, that no one has to mark the pace of this step that we want to do. And you know that history this time won't judge us, because we have it all in our favor. We have..., all the elements in favour: we have great mobilizations, people who are involved day and day too, the absolute independenceist majority in the Parliament of Catalonia, a clearly independenceist government. People, this time, will not value us for who has been better than who, who has been more hero than who, will only value us for one thing, whether we have done it right and made it possible or not. And, therefore, at the time of enlargement, given by the President, "the breadth of visions, I believe that we will generate a lot more people to come here through democratic radicality, but also through the way that our pedagogy is more than illusion and hope. And in this sense it's how we want to plant it. And we obviously appreciate the vote on this. And we want to be part of this chain of trust, and I'm sure we'll build and renew this confidence again, that with the vote of assumptions it's true that it crashed, it's sprawled, and I'll tell you, because we've heard – because that's the way it is – that it didn't comply with the agreement that we have to stabilize, but I'm sure that, looking forward, I'm sure we'll be part of this chain of trust, you and we, together with the government, together with many entities and thousands of citizens. Because today's confidence, which we are discussing, I also believe that the seventy-two will return to many citizens, that they deserve it very much, and that they have many hopes in us. But in any case, thank and appreciate positively, therefore, the vote in favour of the question of trust. The lady Inés Arrimadas. We, in Ciutadans, with his intervention, obviously, we also want to make some reference, don't we? There is no doubt that you, with your intervention, have made it clear to us that you have a very high concept of yourself, right? I thought today they would come with a little more humility, because after the results of Euskadi and Galicia, they are only good for an alcohol control, for zero, zero. [[remorse of the voice]] I thought you'd come in a more humble way today, but you came here to give us a series of lessons, didn't you? Mrs. Arrimadas, you don't like democracy. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's more... No, no, it's more: I've seen some of your statements in which you say: "I will never accept a result favorable to the Catalan Republic. I will not accept one against the Catalan Republic; I will accept it against – I will accept it against. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]] Calm, that still remain in enough minutes; calm, but they must know that where they are given they take them. They need to know that. Then, you try to create a mantra – you try to create a mantra – and you tell and say that what we do is divide Catalans. That's not true – it's not true. You said: "Because you divide Catalans... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.75.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.76.0	And it's not true. You say that, but they don't believe it. Because if we divided the Catalans, you would be happy, because you were born to divide the Catalans – you were born to divide the Catalans. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]] You...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.77.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.78.0	That we make them nervous?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.79.0	Please, respect the word. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, respect the word tower. Before everyone spoke, he could say he wanted to. So let the intervention end now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.80.0	Miri, do you know what's going on? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.81.0	Let the intervention end. Before everyone spoke – everyone spoke – and he could say what he wanted. So let the intervention end now, please. Let the intervention end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.82.0	See, see, see, see, see, see, see, see, see, see, Mrs. Arrimadas, do you see how they don't like democracy? You've landed with Junts... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You have posed together for the Yes, with Convergence, with Left, with the Democratic Party, with I don't know who, with I don't know how many, and they can do it. Now, when we say it, here's the big... Therefore, put'stranquil·la' – put'stranquil·la' – accept democracy [[Greetings.]] Why, do you know what's going on – do you know what's going on? Madame Arrimadas, do you know what's going on? That she's used to going to so many tertules that there's only one of hers, she's not used to someone carrying them. But this... you have to start listening. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]] Follow me. But that's what you're saying... you tell them... you've got to please him very much, but we have to answer them, because you've come to us... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You've come to us... she's headed for us – she's headed for us. So I'm heading for you. You have accused us – you have accused us – of having double morale. He said so. Did he say that or didn't he say that? Moral Double – Moral Double? I would like Ciutadans, for the sake of this Parliament, for the agreements they tell us, to clarify to us what is the official position: what you said this day in La Vanguard, which is to end with topics, that in Catalonia the castle does not have any difficulty, or that of Mr Albert Rivera, who says that in order to speak the castle in Catalonia the face must be "broken. [[Greetings.]] What is the official version of Ciutadans? What's that? Who's the official version of the català? And then, madam..., another mantra that you said: « The European Union, the European Union... Know who will be the first interested that Catalonia is staying in the European Union, the first? The Spanish State. The first one that will be interested will be the Spanish State. And many news has come out, not from here, but from there, that many autonomous communities begin to make numbers to see how much they will lose, they or the State, when Catalonia's tax haven is over. And the first interested is the Spanish State, which Catalonia follows to the European Union. They'll come back to us because we're in the European Union – they'll come back to us. [[Greetings.]] Because an economy like Catalan can't afford to stay out..., and stay with a Spanish state with 20_per_cent less of its wealth. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.83.0	Please, just let it go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.84.0	So, stop tangled people, stop saying... you, that the other day went... because it's thanks to me; say that we'll stay together. You, that the other day went to the Strategic Table of the Mediterranean Corridor... us, winged, that we are here. So I don't know how the others will get out, because the Mediterranean corridor passes 60 or 70 per cent of the load of goods. So I don't know how... I don't vagina tell more beasts of these... that we'll stay out of the European Union; let it be. Jo, in relation to Mr. Iceta... Mr. Iceta... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, [[Rialles. Widow's remorse.]] No, no, Home – home –, now... [[The timer laughs. The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.85.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.86.0	I should congratulate him on his saint, but he didn't leave me. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.87.0	Let it go, 'cause if we don't have to expand. I just said. And then, you, the Ciutadans Group, will be able to answer. But please let him finish. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Yes, because he's been directly questioned and this is a debate. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.88.0	I'm missing Mr. Albiol! If I don't, I'll use a replica turn and we'll go out. I'm asking you to let me talk. We have endured all that has been said. So let us explain. Listen, Mr. Iceta, I just wanted to say: you ask us something that you know we can't accept, and more for the nature of this parliamentary group. You will say to us: "Listen, forget the object of this. This is an objective, that of the independence of Catalonia, which is why it is created Junts for the Yes – for which it is created. We can't give up on this. Don't tell us we lost the plebiscite. Perhaps with the mathematicians of Mr. Zapatero, who said that all the autonomous communities were over the middle. They explained to me that if it's a medium there's a sub and a sub. But it's the same. When there's a 48 with a 39, it's clear, who wins. There's an 11 that says neither yes nor no..., all the contrary... but we didn't lose him. We have all the legitimacy to be able to do it. But, in addition, there's a thought, Mr. Iceta, and I'm sure you have to turn this around. If we tell the people that Junts voted for the Yes: « Water! Do we forget our electoral commitments, does this help democratic regeneration or do we fall into the barrel of democratic degeneration? We, before we give up this object because we have been given all the legitimacy of the ballot box we are not going home. What we won't do and what we can't do is give up exactly what the polls said. And you say, "We're doing a reform of what – that you've recognized was difficult – and then we ask the people. Do it backwards. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We ask the people and, depending on what the people say, we act. And if people want independence from Catalonia, we assume that people want independence from Catalonia. President, it takes a little more time, because between interruptions and I won't go out again... Mr. Rabell, you said they played game. He said: "Listen, now very important moments come here in Parliament. Party's gone. Today – I am not saying to the general policy debate, which I can hear perfectly, or to the assumptions, which can be more complicated – you should vote in favour of today – you should vote in favour. Because the president offers them democracy, he offers them a way of democracy. Go ahead and laugh, Mr. Coscubala. So, then, we come to a conclusion: when you, with these happenings that make us here, when it's not a samarreta, it's a trumpet, and when it's not a banner... [[Rialles.]] Make a sign, which all of you put in reference, reference, reference; now the president and say reference or reference, and say: « We will vote no. [[Rialles. Applauds]] No, no, and, in addition, the president says: "And speaking with an offer of agreement to the State, and you vote no. Every time they come to us with a happening of these, we'll hear that they don't come to make a claim, that they come to make a bigger deal, and that's it, but they don't believe it. [[Rialles.]] Because if we give them what you ask and vote against it, there's no sense in it. And, then, Mr.Rabell – Mr.Rabell – give us some arguments that, truly, cost us... Those of "real democracy, those who have abandoned this... If it is not that of "real remains" real and that they want to follow feel an autonomous community of a Bourbon monarchy forever. I don't understand the arguments you're making. I don't understand them. "Why perhaps the law will not be connected here, "why do we have to wait for the authority from there... Do you see where you stand, in this vote, when democracy, democracy and democracy is taking place? Do you see that? Listen, when people, peacefully, massively, can go... even though there's something that legally isn't done, or it's not done, connected, it's done imposing, when it's peaceful, people. I... I've been through it a lot, and the other day they asked me... I know now that's not the best example for you. But, listen, the Berlin wall: the people decided... I already know that for some of you it should not have fallen, but it fell because when the people said... Listen, it was protected by laws, by tanks, by canons, for everything, and when the people decided peacefully that there was enough, to live better, peacefully, there fell. And, therefore, I do not understand how you today pose at the side of those who do not want to change completely. I won't talk to you about Korea. And don't tell us he lacks a social base, the independence movement. Because then you'll be out of work in this Parliament. Because when there's a banner and more than four people come here with a few demands I don't know what, and now it turns out that... that they have all the legitimacy, but what they can't say is that demonstrations have gathered hundreds of thousands of people for five years... that there are already seventy-two Members here sharing an object, that what they ask is that it's in the ballot box, that the solution is found... that they say there's no social base. I don't understand. You, really, in this today's party, Mr. Rabell, in this today's party – in this today's party, I don't tell them in the general policy debate, that I understand there may be a thousand discrepancies, or in the assumption, that it's another story – you should vote in favour. And, finally, Mr. Albiol, you came here today with your threatening to, you spoke on behalf of everyone... What you do on behalf of the PP is what surrounds you; what you do on behalf of the prosecutor is perfectly understood; what you do on behalf of the police also understand, but today you have spoken to us on behalf of the banks. You, I mean, are so humble that you even speak to us in the name of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.89.0	Mr. Turull...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.90.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.91.0	It's three minutes. It's a time complaint. You can, if you want, do a second intervention, as all groups have done. You asked me to let him finish, since I wouldn't do the second intervention. I thought it best to do that, but they're very true. In any case, if you want, you can have a second intervention. [[Rialles. Widow's remorse.]] In this room... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] In this room, all the groups have intervened and everyone has spoken all the time they wanted. The time has been limited to each group. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They've done all the surgery, and a lot of them haven't even finished the second time. Therefore, Mr. Turull asked me, as there is not a second intervention, to do it... Now. He's asked for it now, publicly. If you want, I can speak with the President and I can speak with Mr Turull. He preferred to do it this way. If it's over... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's the same.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.92.0	No, it's the same. I'm done, President. I know it's hard that we... there are six group interventions, everyone has tried to sneak out of Junts for the Yes, and that we, so we try to answer, so don't... don't do that. Mr. Albiol, I will not make blood. I will only ask you one thing: do you agree with the phrase that first is the political criteria and then the judge? Do you agree? He's not answering. Hey, you don't answer that? Do you know why he doesn't answer? Because the phrase is from Mrs. Soraya Sáez of Santamaría. When the Constitution forced Mr. Rajoy to go to an investiture he said: "No, now the Constitution here does not paint re. So, be a little consistent and don't feel sorry for the conflict. There won't be a train crash. Mr. Rajoy has made it very clear to us: his horizon is Spanish 1812, Pepa. Ours is the Europe of the 21st century. We won't find each other, we won't play. I don't want to patei, I want to patei people. [[Greetings.]] I'm done. Now you're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.94.0	I'm done now, President. Just a minute for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.95.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.96.0	...to tell the president: president, you have all our trust. The requirement begins with one. We, the work and the steps to make you keep us in this chain of trust we'll make them. The one that will make this country, the one that will touch us alive, is of a dimension, from all points of view, absolutely immense. History has summoned us, president, and history will judge us. It will be a great honour for us, but also a very high responsibility. And this honour and responsibility we want to share with you, the president, the vice president, this government and the city council. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.97.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.98.0	Firstly, a very brief point of order, and secondly, by the references made by Mr Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.99.0	Okay, one minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.100.0	Thank you. Firstly, the point of order. I would ask you, Madam President, perhaps to refrain from appreciating the mood of the rest of the groups, because when I was speaking this morning I had to be the one who shut up and I said let me speak to the gentlemen of Junts for the Yes and I did not hear any kind of assessment, not even interruption, for their part to ask silence on the benches. I therefore only ask you to be fair and to refrain from making certain comments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.101.0	I'm sorry, I don't accept that, because I asked you to keep quiet in the morning. [[Greetings.]] I don't accept that. I've asked exactly what I'm talking about. Exactly to all who intervened, I asked them to keep quiet, just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.102.0	Okay, I'll take it from you, Madam President. Accept to me the request that I have had to be the one who asked for your help to let me talk. And above all, don't make any judgments about who will be altered and who will not be altered. It's a request. If you want to consider it, perfect, and, if not, nothing. And with regard to what Mr Turull has said, does it seem so bad... that Mr Puigdemont has replied to me that you have had to go out and defend him? [[Rialles.]] Is it so bad that Mr Puigdemont replied to me that he had to correct it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Because Mr Puigdemont has said that I have spoken in a cordial tone, which I thank you for, and you have said that we lack humility here. I think, if you have a president's complex, it's not the best time. [[relays]] to prove it. [[Greetings.]] And finally, Mr Turull: we can disagree, and it is clear that we are going to disagree in so many things, and I understand that there are many things I have said today that you do not share; but what I cannot accept is that you are based on three lies. One: he said I told him he has no moral authority. Lie. Two: you said that I in La Vanguardia corrected Mr Albert Rivera. Lie ; and, if not, look at the definitive version of La Vanguardia. And third [[Funnel veils]] ... – yes, yes, when you have had to correct – and third: you said that I with Mrs Terribas made an assertion that it is false. We may disagree, Mr Turull, but please never cling to lies that are absolutely flagrant. And finally, humility: we will talk about a year from now if those who have to come with humility are you or we have to be us, if next year you are going to declare independence or we are going to follow as we are. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.103.0	The debate has already taken place. All the groups have been able to express themselves, I think. It's here. [[Widow's remorse. Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Looks like... no. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But do you know what's going on, Mr. Coscubiela? That if I give it to you, we have to give it to everyone. And so, like the president's debate, I'm done. [[Pause.]] All right. Yes, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.104.0	Thank you, Madam President. I can assure you that I didn't ask for it to shatter it or complicate it any more. Mr. Turull simply told us that he was going to make a short intervention; briefly he was not. I won't qualify if it's been short or not. In any case, let me tell you one thing: we have never – never – missed the mobilizations that took place these past years on September 11th. And let me tell you something: I can understand that you did not understand the intervention of Mr. Lluís Rabell, but I believe that you did not understand the intervention of your president, nor his answer, nor his dialect. [[Some applause.]] Then, I'm sorry, if you don't mind, we'll stay with the president's intervention, and donate his for nothing. I think it's better for everyone. Thank you. [[Some applause. Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.105.0	Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.106.0	Yes, Madam President; for a point of order, and also for a reflection that I believe is necessary in this Parliament, that in any case we would ask that it be dealt with at the next meeting of the Spokesperson, that I believe it is where the Spokespersons will have to speak and agree on the terms of a parliamentary debate. In the words of a parliamentary debate, which speaks last, last speaks. And, therefore, those questions which arise and arise in the wake of a parliamentary debate, do not have to be answered if they arise from the order of intervention of the groups, because, if not, the debate is converted into an eternal debate. I think this is a reflection that is imposed on all groups. Now it was the intervention of the Group of Joints for the Yes, without more reply and reply than that of the President of the Generality. That is how the parliamentary debate for this session was ordered. Therefore, I would ask – because this will happen again in the future, because we always go to the last group – that as the last group we do not have petitions about what we say, because after us we do not have the right to say ours again. If we turn this into an eternal debate, we'll never end. Therefore, I would ask that our turn of speech be respected, our words say to the Faristol and, obviously, the one that has given it to the session that accords to the Board of Spokesmen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.107.0	After the statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups, we shall proceed to the vote... [[The President of the Generalitat asks to speak. Relieving of sight and laughter.]] President, yes. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] The President of the Generalitat has the word. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.108.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. I understand that, after what you've been through here, you've forgotten that I wanted to use the word, in this case yes, not only to thank Mr. Turull and the entire Group of Junts for the Yes, but also the Group of the CUP, the support they have explained, but also to address a later message to the side of the chamber. Let's just say, too, with regard to the controversy that has arisen, that we have had to hear, in particular, I have had to hear, and I have not heard, all sorts of references to the parliamentary group, to my old party, to the Joint Group of the Congress of Deputies, to Members of this bench, and everyone has stood up to this, because it was up to me to do so. Therefore, I express my surprise because, later, the majority group in this case is the object of petitions, of allusions, when allusions have occurred throughout the debate and when attempts have been made to respect what was the agreement in the manner in which this debate was to proceed, which is a debate in which the groups speak, the chairman in charge, the groups reply, and then there may or may not be a counter-replication. Finally, a long time ago, such a day as today, 2012 – therefore, four years ago – in this Parliament, assured, there were exactly fourteen Members chosen for parties calling for the independence of Catalonia. Three years later – because the elections were on September 15 – the deputies in favor of independence are seventy-two. This change that has occurred in society is a real change, it is a change that responds to the popular will, it is a change that has not been invented by anyone, it is a change that has not been designed in the head of the IBEX 35 company, it is a change that has not financed it from the "sponsors of these people that precisely finance the contrary to independence, it is a real and profound change: from fourteen to seventy-two. And, also, from the other side, from the Spanish state have acted, not as if there were fourteen, as if there were zero. No one – no one – has done what is expected at least that any company, country or organization will do when it is found, suddenly and again, that 2_million people ask to give themselves off. Nothing's happened. Yes, it has happened: that the elect of this popular will act in consequence. And it happened that, acting in consequence and wanting to complete the order of the ballot boxes, we are criminalized for this. It has happened that it wants to question the democratic mandate of the people and it wants to lower the intensity of the burden that citizens make when they put a paper in the ballot box. And he wants to re-examine, every time, why we bet on Catalonia's independence, as if it wasn't obvious. There shouldn't be enough people asking for it, and people are right. But, in addition, there are underlying arguments that Parliament and politics here and there should be taken up. At the front we have a state that just doesn't pedal in the direction favorable to the interests..., of Catalonia by no means, nor of some other autonomy of the Spanish State. And we have the duty, as responsible for this country, to defend our citizens. We have a duty to demand from the State the compliment of its obligations and that, if it does not fulfil its obligations after, repeatedly, asking for it, for the right and the reverse, here, there, with most differences, we have a moral duty – because we serve the citizens – to seek solutions. And the solution to the incompliments, the solution to a tax mistreatment that harms Catalans, the solution – we said and the people voted for it – is to say "a state, to have the tools of a state so that we can govern ourselves and be responsible, in the end, for everything we demand of the State that it is responsible and that it ostensibly resigns from doing so". I won't make them the list of dependency costs, we'll have occasion to do so. But they think that if we just look at the costs of dependency for what it does to direct state failure, it's red. And if, in addition, we analyze the direct costs per capita of our citizens, added to their fiscal effort, hard, redness becomes already outraged. And before that what do we propose to do? Some say: "Wait. Let's get things over with. More forward. Maybe... even a few say we're not right. We say no. That we have to answer this repte and we know it's not a simple repte. Actually, it's very complicated. And that's why, like it's a repte that's not simple, that's very complicated, today more than ever we need to know if we have the ability to match it. It's what I've come to ask here: trust and stability. Trust and them because in this final stretch of this difficult slope we don't spat it out from within. We won't be able to take any more chances, and this is probably behind us, and we can either take advantage of it or we can reject it, but we are still aware that we are on a final stretch of a very difficult and very inevitable challenge that, by responsibility to the voters, we cannot and do not want to flee. We have a state that doesn't generate confidence in the front. Captain. You don't generate it yourself, you don't generate it in your political system. We have a state that when asked the citizen of Catalonia, in all kinds of questions, starting with the CEO and continuing with the rest, the reputation of this state in Catalonia is very low, and, in fact, the political leaders of the Spanish state in Catalonia are left behind. That's what's going on. And, therefore, before a state that does not give us any confidence, we have to trust more than ever – more than ever – in a country. In a country that is a great country and that can be bigger, that means being bigger not of territories, nor of inhabitants, but of great with its people, of great especially in dealing with the most disadvantaged. We are a country that we can measure perfectly, we are a country perfectly homologable to any advanced country of the European Union. Catalonia's GDP per capita is the new highest in the European Union and is 13_per_cent per month from the middle of Europe. Equivalent to 31.090_euros, just for the past Belgium and superior to the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Spain. The Catalan economy is the largest of the European Union, much like that of the Czech Republic, and larger than that of Portugal, Greece and Denmark. Catalan GDP represents, as you know, 19.8 of the Spanish economy. In the population, Catalonia is larger than Bulgaria, than Denmark, than Finland, than Slovakia or Ireland, and represents, as you also know, the 16_percent of the Spanish population. It will not surprise them, I suppose, because they must know, that 50 percent of the United Nations countries have a population lower than that of Catalonia, half of it. Therefore, we are a country perfectly homologable to the best countries of the world, or to the countries to which we wish to refer. We are a great country, which is able, with all these difficulties, with a state that drives it against systemically, with great forces not only in the State, but also outside the State, but that collaborate very responsibly – let's say – with the State, to present some data that continue to surprise us for its solidity. Imagine having a state in favor. Imagine, for example: the second quarter of 2016– the second quarter of 2016– Catalonia has increased by 3.5_per_cent, the economy, the GDP of Catalonia has increased by 3.5_per_cent, and chain exactly eleven consecutive quarters of positive annual growth and surpasses the Spanish midjana, which is 3.2, and, of course, that of the euro area, which is 1.6_per_cent. And it is expected, moreover, that this year the economy will grow around 3_per_cent, which will be twice the euro area. In 2015, the economy grew by 3.4, and was also superior to the growth of the Spanish economy, with 3.2, and that of the euro area, with 1.6. Well, in occupation, Catalonia leads the reduction of the ature to the State, with 122,500 atolls less than June 2015. In the variation rate, the rate falls to 16.9_per_cent, while the occupation grows by 3.5_per_cent. On the other hand, Spain has a 12.2 turnaround and the occupation has a 2.4 turnaround. We are referring to Europe from an industrial point of view. Europe, as you know, has set for 2020 that industry represents 20_percent of the Catalan economy. Catalonia has already reached this xifra, which is more than 19_percent of the European Union's countries, and higher, also, to which Spain represents, and our goal is to place us in a 25_percent contribution from the industrial sector to GDP. We talked about internationalization, we talked about foreign trade. Let them understand that the degree of openness of the Catalan economy is 117_percent of GDP, over the middle of the euro area, which is 87_percent, and over the middle of the European Union, which is 84_percent. Let'mix' them that the volume of international exports has increased by 35_percent in the last two years; that Catalonia concentrates 34,4_percent of the regular exporting enterprises to the Spanish State, that they are more than 16,000 Catalan enterprises that regularly export outside the Spanish territory; that more than 3,000 Catalan enterprises are present at the foreigner with 8,300 subsidiaries, and that the Catalan fabric is connected to the world, since one_of_each_five Catalan enterprises of more than nine workers is inserted in the global value chains, which obviously have an impact on a type of work place and a wealth generation capacity that is what it suits us. In direct internationalization and foreign investment, which has been discussed before, considering the broad period, which is what allows us to know if it is a structural or conjunctural gyra, when a gyra of a determined time period is taken, the period of generation 2011- June 2016 – therefore, full crisis, long period to know if this is structural or conjunctural – Catalonia – generation 2011- June 2016 – is the first autonomous community in the State with capital capture – 31_per_cent –, creating jobs – 34_per_cent – and in volume of projects – 37_per_cent. Not that I read them also the international recognitions that there have been, the clamorous successes in the field of tourism; particularly, also, in business tourism, where Barcelona is located as the second city of the world in the name of professionals attending congresses and the fifth of the world in the name of congresses. I can give you figures from the port of Barcelona, the port of Tarragona, the airport of Barcelona and so many other infrastructures, or from the Catalan universities, or from the indicators at the research level and so many other elements that allow you to know if a country is going well or is going badly, whether a country has a future or not, and that country is going well and that country has a lot of future. But because you have the future that your citizens deserve, because we don't spoil opportunities, because when another crisis comes to us – that they will – you're blowing at us reinforced, with a product texture and a work texture too on condition, we're definitely on, and I think it's already up to us, to have a state in favor, or at least not going against us, and a state in favor of all and every one of the Catalans. The objective, in fact, is quite obvious. I'm sure... – and I've heard it all from groups that are opposed to independence – I'm sure we all feel that the Spanish State has failed and failed. Mediterranean Corridor, Social Aids, Investments..., and we carry a chain of mistrust, in this case, that embraces a few decades of targeted mistreatment to which are the interests of Catalonia. So we could say – maybe some of you won't want to conjugate it that way, but I think it's just and felt that way for a lot of people – that we have a state against, or against, if I get caught up with it. So, well, the great challenge we have for Catalans is that the Catalan state follows the state of all Catalans, that even all those people who legitimately do not consider Catalonia's independence project to be an interesting project or to which I support it, that even these people feel that the Catalan state is their state, that they can never say that they have a state against it, and that when they go to the health service, or go to the education system, or have to resort to social services, or that they have to resort to public mobility through a rolling service, or that they have to go to the country up and down with highways, with highways of other services, that when they have to do this they do not have a bad way or discrimination by being where they are. And now that happens, and now there's a part of the citizens of the Spanish State that for decades we chain a repeated mistreatment. That's why we're talking about a counter state and we're asking to build a pro state for everyone, for the seven million and a half Catalans. This does not begin here, of course not; this goes a long way, but today we have a very important tape to complete it, because we have the compromise, because we have the majority of Parliament, because we have the bulk of the population mobilized around this project as other projects have not been able to mobilize, and that is why it is essential that, in order to complete it, we begin this chain of confidence that I proposed to all of you in my intervention yesterday. I trust that's the way it is, and in any case, I thank them for getting the support. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.109.0	Thank you very much, President. Now yes, finish the interventions... [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]] Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.110.0	It seems to me that there is someone in the audience who bothers him to pull the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.111.0	Uh, excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.112.0	That maybe you don't feel it from here, but there's someone from the public that bothered you that I ask for the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And why... here at the end we have the clap – we have the clap. No, just a point of order, also on the line that pointed out before the Group of Junts' spokesman for the Yes. I would like to know whether the intervention we have heard now from the President of the Generalitat, from a formal point of view, can be understood to be an answer to the intervention made by the spokesman of the Group of Joints for the Yes, or an intervention that challenges all groups and therefore opens up to all groups of this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.113.0	I understand it's the answer tower, Mr. Millo. In any case, he will... I understand that this is the return of response to Junts for the Yes, to the Junts for the Yes Parliamentary Group. Right now, huh? We shall now proceed to the vote on the statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure and in agreement with the Board of Spokespersons, the vote is public by cry, it is voted in alphabetical order, starting for the deputy whose name you have come out of by lot. [[The president takes a ball with the number of the deputy for whom the roll-call vote has to begin.]] We extract a number, which is 79. Correspond to Mr Ferran Pedret. I ask the third secretary, Mr Joan Josep Nuet, to appoint the deputies and the deputies, and they will answer 'yes or' they will not declare that they are abstaining. The members of the Government who continue to be Members of the European Parliament will continue to vote and, lastly, the members of the Bureau. We shall therefore proceed to the vote now. Secretaries?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.114.0	Please shut them up, please. And they ask them to cry out loud and loud. Ferran Pedret i Santos: "No. Carles Prats i Cot: "Yes. Eulàlia Reguant i Cura: "Yes. Eduardo Reyes i Pino : « Yes. Marta Ribas Frías : « No. Irene Rigau and Oliver: "Yes. Javier Rivas Escamilla: "No. David Rodríguez i González: "Yes. Santi Rodríguez i Serra : « No. Meritxell Roigé i Pedrola: "Yes. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « No. Alicia Romero Llano : « No. Maria Rosell i Medall: "Yes. Marta Rovira i Vergés: "Yes. Maria Dolors Rovirola and Coromi: "Yes. Sergi Sabria and Benito: "Yes. Sergi Saladié Gil : « Yes. Benet Salellas and Vilar: "Yes. Fernando Sánchez Costa: "No. Alfonso Sánchez Fisac: "No. Carlos Sánchez Martín: "No. Marc Sanglas i Alcantarilla: "Yes. Sergio Sanz Jiménez: "No. Jordi-Miquel Sendra Velvè: "Yes. Maria Senserrich i Guitart: "Yes. Gabriela Serra Frediani : « Yes. Sonia Sierra Infante: "No. Bernat Sole i Barril: "Yes. Jorge Soler González: "No. Marc Solsona and Aixalà: "Yes. Jordi Terrades i Santacreu: "No. Roger Torrent and Ramío: "Yes. Jordi Turull i Negre: "Yes. Elisabeth Valencia Mimbrero : « No. María Francisca Valle Fuentes : « No. Teresa Vallverdú Albornà : « Yes. Mireia Vehi i Cantenys: "Yes. Alba Vergés i Bosch: "Yes. Marc Vidal i Pou : « No. Laura Vílchez Sánchez: "No. Montserrat Vilella Quadrada : « Yes. Alberto Villagrasa Gil: "No. Marisa Xandri Pujol: "No. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « No. Oriol Amat i Salas: "Yes. Inés Arrimadas García : « No. Antoni Balasch i Parisi : « Yes. Martin Eusebio Barra López : « No. Albert Batalla i Siscart: "Yes. Albert Batet i Canadell: "Yes. Germà Bel Queralt: "Yes. Susana Beltrán García : « No. David Bonvehí i Torras: "Yes. Albert Botran i Pahissa: "Yes. Mireia Boya and Busquet: "Yes. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "No. Rafel Bruguera Batalla: "No. Montserrat Candini i Puig : « Yes. Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « No. Joan Ramon Casals i Mata: "Yes. Magda Casamitjana and Aguilà: "Yes. Jean Castel Sucarrat: "No. Antoni Castellà and Clavé : « Yes. Carmina Castellví i Vallverdú : « Yes. Pilar Castilejo Medina : « Yes. Carles Castillo Rosique : « No. Anna Caula i Paretas : « Yes. Violating Cervera i Gódia: "Yes. Ferran Civit i Martí: "Yes. Joan Coscubala Conesa: "No. Jordi Cuminal i Roquet: "Yes. Naomi of Sifré Street: "No. Fernando de Páramo Gómez : « No. Carmen de Rivera i Pla: "No. Adriana Delgado i Herreros : « Yes. Francisco Javier Domínguez Serrano : « No. Chakir the Homrani Lesfar : « Yes. Assume Escarp Gibert: "No. Antonio Espinosa Cerrato : « No. Albano Dante Fachin Pozzi : « No. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « No. Anna Figueras i Ibáñez : « Yes. Natalia Figueras i Pagès : « Yes. Josep Maria Forné i Febrer : « Yes. Montserrat Fornells i Sole : « Yes. Josep Lluís Franco Rabell: "No. Anna Gabriel i Sabaté: "Yes. Xavier García Albiol: "No. María José García Cuevas: "No. Esperanza García González : « No. Joan García González: "No. Joan Garriga Quadres: "Yes. Pol Gibert Horcas: "No. Joan Giner Miguélez: "No. Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster : « Yes. Germà Gordó and Aubarell: "Yes. Eva Granados Galiano : « No. Hortènsia Grau Juan: "No. Lluís Guinó i Upirós : « Yes. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé: "No. Miquel Iceta i Llorens: "No. Maria Assumption Laïlla i Jou: "Yes. Andrea Levy Soler: "No. Gemma Lienas Massot: "No. Lluís Llach i Grande : « Yes. Neus Lloveras i Massana : « Yes. Angels Martínez Castells: "No. Eva Martínez Morales: "No. David Mejía Ayra: "No. Juan Milián Querol : « No. Josep Enric Millo i Rocher: "No. Fabian Mohedano Morales: "Yes. Raúl Moreno Montaña : « No. Marta Moreta Rovira: "No. Jordi Munell i Garcia: "Yes. [[Pause.]] Pain Bassa i Coll: "Yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They repeat it, huh? Pain Bassa i Coll: "Yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, there was a little mistake. They're on, aren't they? On behalf of Congresswoman Esther Niubó, Congresswoman Eva Granados Galiano : « No. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « No. Jordi Orobig i Sole: "Yes. Montserrat Palau Vergés: "Yes. Marta Pascal i Capdevila: "Yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Congresswoman Dolors Bassa, I know it's the third time, but she'll excuse me. [[Rialles.]] Pain Bassa i Coll: "Yes. [[Rialles.]] Antoni Comín Oliveres : « Yes. Neus Munté and Fernández: "Yes. Raül Romeva i Rueda : « Yes. Josep Rull i Andreu: "Yes. Oriol Junqueras i Vies: "Yes. Carles Puigdemont i Casamajó : « Yes. Ramona Barrufet i Santacana : « Yes. Joan Josep Nuet i Pujals: "No. [[Rialles.]] David Pérez Ibáñez: "No. Anna Simó i Castelló : « Yes. Josep María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa : « No. Lluís Maria Corominas i Díaz : « Yes. Carme Forcadell i Lluís : « Yes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-29-2202.115.0	The result of the vote was the following: 72 votes, 'yes; 63, 'no, and no abstention. As a result of the vote, the Parliament of Catalonia holds the confidence required for the President of the Generality. The president wants to address the chamber...? [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] The president wants to address the chamber? [[Pause.]] No, no, The session's up.
