ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.1.0	The session begins. [[The deputies of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes leave a white rose to the bait of the deputy Muriel Casals and Couturier. Long and long applause.]] [[Condol demonstration for the death of MP Muriel Casals and Couturier]] Before we begin, we keep a minute of silence in memory of our companion and friend Muriel Casals, an exemplary person, dialogue and compromise who, unfortunately, left us the diumenge past. Our deepest condolences to Muriel's family and friends. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this session. I also recall that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, for this plenary session, Congresswoman Alicia Romero Llano, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has delegated her vote, for reasons of motherhood, to the spokesman of her group, Mrs Eva Granados. [[Greetings to new Members]] So, I would like to greet the two nine Members who are joining today: Mrs Maria Assumption Laïlla, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, and Mrs Pilar Castilejo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. [[Ask the Government about Organic Law 4/2015, on the protection of citizen security]] [[310-00017/11]] The first item on the agenda is oral questions. Ask the government. He asked the Government about Organic Law 4/2015, protecting citizen security. The question is posed by Mrs Mireia Vehí, from the Parliamentary Group of Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.2.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Mr. Jané, the other day, to the Committee on the Interior, explained to us that he would apply the Law of Citizens' Security, which he has been entitled to for human rights organizations such as demophobic and anti-rights and civil and political freedoms of citizens. However, in the statement of 9 November, there was a commitment for his formation, for his government and for the UPC, not to apply the Law of Citizen Security, better known as the law of bite. Sometimes legality and legitimacy don't just go together, they're confrontational. What will you do, Mr. Jané? Are you going to bet on demophobic legality, against human rights and rights and freedoms, or are you going to stand on the side of the legitimacy of the 9 November declaration and the compromise not to apply the law bite and for the defense of human rights?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.3.0	Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.4.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your question. The Law of Civil Security approved it to the Corts Generals, the last legislature, in a context of absolute majority. That rule covered the voting against most of the political forces that we are in this Parliament; the voting against very many Members, including the Councillor who is now speaking to him, who was then a member of the Congress, and who voted against it. So I made it clear that we don't like this law. Let me make it clear, too, that there are nine precepts – new – of this law, that this Parliament, in agreement with the Council of State Guarantees, considers that they can be unconstitutional, that they have resorted to them and that it considers, moreover, that they may violate the fundamental rights. I have no doubt that, in accordance with that resolution approved by this Parliament, this Government will always do what it will do is to veto the fundamental rights, to veto the public freedoms, to veto the defence of security, to enforce laws, yes, but to do it when it is in this concrete case, a law with many open, ambiguous, indeterminate precepts, to seek wherever it is possible, the application more favourable to the law. That's what this Parliament approved, and that's what we want to do, like the government; keeping in mind, too – and that's very important – that I can't say that a law doesn't apply when those who have to apply the laws are public servants, public servants, who have made a process of opposition and who have the obligation at all times to apply the law. But I have no doubt: we always want to apply the most favourable meaning to the interpretation of the fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.5.0	There's the word Mrs. Mireia Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.6.0	Thank you, Counselor. I'm glad I'm talking about human rights and human rights, because in the same committee he told us that they would buy taxing guns, guns that, yes, they do because they want to, because there's no legality to make them. Some guns that emit an electroxoc of 50,000 amps of low voltage, that the United Nations Committee against Torture has exposed that, because of the pain they cause, they are, say, cause of torture and that Amnesty International, in a study that was made in the United States between 2001 and 2007, states that more than one hundred and fifty people died from the application of these guns. What will you do, Mr. Jané? Will other shots defend human rights? Because you, at the committee, when I asked him why he told me to apply them, but not to worry, to apply them with a camera. This is not for us, Mr. Jané. The same guns that are taxed are, in themselves, countered to the defense of human rights. Moreover, when we asked him for this, you told us that "oh, the things we asked for; what would we do if the things were asked? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We want a political debate, Mr. Jané. We want the use of guns to tax to be debated in Parliament, in political terms, not in police terms and for a demand for police commanders. We'd also like to know if, since they're thinking of buying so many guns to charge for all operational commands, they're thinking of replacing firearms or what? So, Mr. Jané, what's going on? How do we approach the debate? Is that gonna be political?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.7.0	Time's up, Mrs Vehi. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] The word has Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I consider adient what it proposes. We do a commission in this Parliament and we analyze this possible purchase of these guns. Tasser is the name of a brand, they tell me; but, beyond the name of a brand or not, they hold them in Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom, France... Most countries of our civilization, with modern police, have these devices. Therefore, I am willing to talk about it, as it cannot be otherwise. Talk to us. We see what advantages, what drawbacks they hold. And, therefore, this government will do nothing other than what this Parliament of Catalonia sees...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.9.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.10.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.11.0	Question about the report of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia regarding the management of the concessionary company of Aigues Ter Llobregat. [[Ask the Government about the report of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia regarding the management of the concessionary company of Aigues Ter Llobregat]] [[310-00011/11]] The question is posed by the Socialist Group's deputy Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, the outsourcing of Aigues Ter Llobregat because the management is done from the private enterprise, has been since the first day a surge after the other. First, the contracting authority of the same Government of Catalonia told them, one day after the award, that the undertaking to which the concession was awarded had to be excluded from the competition. In the second term, the Tribunal Superior de Justicia de Catalunya declares them null and void the entire tendering procedure. And now, the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia sends the plan to the dealership, you see fiscal responsibilities in its management and you see, above all, criminal responsibilities and, above all, raise the possible resolution of the contract for manifest breaches. And he also owes the government, counselor: we are talking about 13_million euros that may have been invoiced irregularly. Can you explain to us if you've already answered the Anti-Fraud Office and what the government is planning to do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.13.0	The word has the advisor, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.14.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, we have a one-month term to reply to this writing from the Anti-Fraud Office. We are working on the answer, but I can already tell you that we find that, obviously, there has been an irregular action on the part of the concessionary company and an absolutely diligent action on the part of the Government of Catalonia, that at the time it has found that things are not well done, and therefore it has taken the necessary measures to correct this situation. To a very good extent, the Antifrau Office makes the reflections that it makes from, among others, from what the Generality of Catalonia, that the Catalan Agency of Water, therefore, has already had to finish so as to neutralize this situation and reverse it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.15.0	The word has Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.16.0	Look, Mr. Counselor, we don't want to be misguided, but everything that surrounds this award every time is weirder. And I'm not just talking about the auction nyap. Now we are aware that the ACA exgerent, who participated in the drafting of the departures, above all the economic part, did not properly tax the private operator. We also know that an exgerent of Aigües Ter Llobregat has advised the current dealership in the drafting of offers. President Mas and Councillor Mas-Colell assured the winning group's companies that their interests were guaranteed. We don't know who's involved in today's dealership, but it looks like a multi-property. Now there has been a British fund that, through two companies based in the Cayman Islands and Bermuda – tax havens, of course – states that they also have shares. We have also seen a minority part of the current dealership serve a business group based in The Hague to link its investments to pay less. Certainly, the same group that also served Mr. Oleguer Pujol. We've proven obvious contradictions of what is the time when ACA knows the credible billings that Antifrau reports, still indicates that long enough before the government recognizes it. It also seems that the 40_million euros of the capital transfer tax have not been paid. The investments to be made by the concessionaire have not been completed either. Counselor, will they ever really explain to us what happened to this award? Will he ever take responsibility for anyone in the government? When are they going to case the courts and the Anti-Fraud Office?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.17.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.18.0	You've made a perdigoned intervention. Some of the parliamentary groups have asked us to attend. We have a lot of interest in doing this, because this is an extremely sensitive issue. And you know who the circumstances are for which the former Government made the decision to externalize the management of the water sub-administration at high, in some absolutely dramatic circumstances for the Generality of Catalonia: there was no FLA, there was no access to credit and the names of the public workers of the Generality..., or there was a decision of a radicality like this or there was no recourse, no margin, and with a Catalan agency of water absolutely indebted. Therefore, this is a first element. Second element. Who are the control mechanisms that the Government of Catalonia has and the Catalan Agency of Water? Audits that it does biannually for the purpose of determining the economic content and financing of these accounts. And this audit did not fail, and in this specific audit that the Generalitat de Catalunya laid down, it was found that there was the creation of an operating company and that it had invoiced without having similar means with Aigues Ter Llobregat dealership. And it was from this moment that decisions are made that are very forceful, and it is communicated to the tax agency, and prevents this from progressing, and this situation is neutralized. And at this point, we're at zero. What does the Anti-Fraud Office tell us? He said: "It counts, that the ability of the Generalitat of Catalonia to control this concession has not been damaged. There is no malaise left, and we guarantee this with all roundness, honourable Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.19.0	Question about the future of the Centro Recreatiu Turístic de Vila-seca i Salou and the Barcelona World project. [[Ask the Government about the future of the Tourist Recreation Centre in Vila-seca and Salou and the BCN World project]] [[310-00010/11]] Asks the question Mrs Hortènsia Grau, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.20.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, if the Barcelona World project no longer exists and was not a good project, as you said the disbanded RAC1; if there was an initial approval of an urban director board in which there were four operators to make the four integrated centers, of which one has already gone, Veremonte, and there are only three remaining, which substantially changes the project, because it increases costs, etc.; if there is a discrepancy of opinion in the case of your government, isn't there? In the parties that support this Government, as we have seen these last few days, I ask you if your Government intends to continue to maintain the current Urban Director Plan, in parallel it does not intend to introduce proposals or modify the law that made it possible..., which was made to the dictate of a concrete project, which does not exist, Barcelona World, and which made possible this Urban Director Plan and the moment we find ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.21.0	The word has the advisor, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.22.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. My honourable Member, you have perfectly set up, with your intervention, what are the terms of this project at these times. And it was about this interview that I did on a radio broadcast. The Barcelona World project was linked to an operator who at these times is no longer, no longer acts, who was Veremonte; no longer is, on the table. Therefore, we are talking about a project that is expressed in different terms, around a whole series of instruments that are publicly owned: the PDU, the law, an option to buy the Generalitat over the land to be able to last this action; and a PDU resized, with us operators, with solvent operators. What do we have to do? Talk to him, that there is much information and be able to make the best decision for the territory and for the country's conjunct. This is the understanding that this government poses: from transparency, from information, to making the best decisions for the benefit of the people. This is our option. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.23.0	There's the word "Mrs. Grau."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.24.0	Counselor, with this project that began in 2012, we have seen so much posture, so many false promises, we have seen operators so volatile, that they were there and they weren't there... And the last one surprises us a lot, because, look, Hard Rock Cafe's last announcement, of an inversion of 2,500_million, which coincides with what it's worth to urbanize – both direct and indirect costs – the whole pill was to go all four. So, I ask, is Hard Rock planning to pay for everything? Why, of course, Hard Rock announces this reversal; what happens to other operators? We don't know about Melco, we don't know about it, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't know about Melco, we don't I say to him: look, they have the opportunity not to respond to the Allegations of the Pla Director, do not answer them; we rethink the project, we rethink... Because you know..., just as the theme of the game is a theme that, for example, Hard Rock does not know if the imposition as necessary and that, besides, does not generate wealth, does not generate productive economy in a country– said the Nobel Prize in Economics, said Samuelson. They have the possibility..., you don't have to make a consultation, you don't have to make a fuss about who you have to consult, who you have to ask. If, listen, if we rethink the project from the inician, tourist model, economic model, with the Camp of Tarragona, with all the agents, we will not be warmed up or consulted, so that we can sit down to everyone and rethink, with these lands that remain, with these four-cents_hectares, what we do. And, if you tell me about the purchase option, you know that the purchase option is a cool paper. Because, to begin with, the current Urban Director no longer fulfils the conditions which the Box imposed, that famous appendix in which the Box conditioned the sale of land to certain urban criteria, which fortunately the Incasòl did not complete. So, I'm telling you, listen, now we have the opportunity, let's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.25.0	Mrs. Grau, you're running out of time. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.26.0	Thank you, President. This is an opportunity we can't mess with. We are talking about a first level tourism project, which generates wealth, which generates added value, which has operators that are solvents, and therefore we must take advantage of this opportunity. And we have to do this in terms of consensus, and political consensus, and territorial consensus. That's what we're laying down at these moments and we're laying on the table, all this information, because we've resized the project. What does Junts' electoral program say for the Yes? Says: "Let's review and push... So let's do it – let's do it – and use all the instruments in our abyss so that the information is on the table, because they make the modifications that are relevant. We're talking about 2,500_million inversion, we're talking about nine thousand possible jobs, direct, we're talking basically about this. And, therefore, what are we planting? For example: we gather the PDU Follow-up Commission, which has all the territorial actors, and we have all the information about the table; we share this information, and that the territory is escorted, that the territory is speaking. And these are the terms of the consultation that President Puigdemont placed and put on the table. Based on these elements, what do you have, some part of the project? Let's talk about it, let's talk about it: let's talk about taxes, let's talk about progressivity, let's talk about, let's say, taxes linked to the game... Let's talk about all these elements and let's talk about it. That you don't do anyone because you can listen, because you can know what we're talking about, and that you can run away from certain topics and certain harms. If we have to make a serious and solvent debate, the government will lead it, and it will lead it on its own. We'd like to count on your complicity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.27.0	Counselor, if you read...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.28.0	...Mrs. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.29.0	Question on transport policies. [[Ask the Government about transport policies]] [[310-00013/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Marina Bravo, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counselor, last Tuesday began very badly, with a regrettable incidence that collapsed the service of Rodalies, and continued badly also, because we had to witness how, while tens of thousands of citizens suffered waits and nerves, Generalitat and Adif all they did was to blame each other, when what interests us is not who has the most guilt, what interests us is to give a good service to the citizens, a more reliable service, that no one stops taking the train because when one thing fails another fails. We have already presented in Congress initiatives for the Ministry of Development, because it is true that they can say that they invest more or less, that we are always with the war of numbers, but the truth is that something is wrong and that the network is getting worse. As for you, since 2010 you have been responsible for rail service. We think they could have done more in these six years. They have not managed, for example, to take advantage of the exploitation, and that takes away a lot of negotiating space. And what have they done to improve the closeness of Barcelona? They have opened things – in Tarragona, in Gerona – but what we already had, which was the fundamental part, have not done much to improve it. Nor do they have any service plan that would forcefully justify new investments. The question is simple: with the skills they have, why have they not done more these six years?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.31.0	The word has the advisor, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.32.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I appreciate the terms in which this intervention is proposed, the first part of the intervention. I mean, listen... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The first part of the intervention; yes, yes, this is the key. And, therefore, I was surprised, to say: "Home, we will agree and all, and all, with Citizens, at this point. There is one thing: the citizen, who bears the blame for it, is indifferent. The citizens they want are... we can give concrete answers. We don't want to blame Madrid, we want to keep all the tools at our disposal to provide a good service to the Catalans. This is the basic element. And that transfer from Rodalies is an incomplete transfer, it's a transfer where the Government of Catalonia doesn't have control of the lives, it doesn't have control of the chain, it doesn't have control of the command centers and it doesn't have control of the trains. We can control the times, we can decide which services are running on the road and we can guarantee how the service is operating. Help us to maintain the full transposition of the rolling stock system. When we have fully managed a railway system, like General Railways, we have been able to do so in terms of excellence, the various governments that have existed here. Help us to have full control to give a better service to the Catalans, which is what they ask us to do later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.33.0	There's the word "Ms. Navy Bravo."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.34.0	Mr. Rull, it seems to you that you only care who manages each competition. What matters to us is how it is managed, done well. And it is already proven that this mantra that if you do so you will be well done and if you do so the Spanish Government will continue to do so badly is not always true. There are thousands of examples: ATLL, line 9. Railroads is much simpler than the complex network of RENFE. So I propose three things. One, take full advantage of the skills we have, which we have not done, thinking, for example, how we are going to take advantage of the Vandellòs variant from now on. Two, ask for responsibilities from Adif and the ministry, but not only with figures or transfers; we have to explain to them that what we need are results, that they must pay attention to maintenance, even if it does not allow them to inaugurate anything. Thirdly – and this one will deserve more effort and will have more merit – coordinate us and, above all, seriously co-responsabilize us in all that we both have some responsibility for. It seems to be working with the Mossos on the issue of thefts; so let's do the same with cleaning, with closings. Well, I want to be optimistic, and I hope you give me a joy and tell me that at least these three points we are going to keep working, even if you keep thinking about other things.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.35.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.36.0	Here what we need is to make the line reliable, to make the railway system reliable. I give you some data, and you know it perfectly well. Punctuality, level of punctuality. Railways of the Generality, which manages one hundred_forty_kilometers of lives– not only Sabadell-Terrassa, not only Martorell, but Igualada-Manresa ; therefore, one hundred_forty_kilometers –: 99_per_cent punctuality. Roller system around Barcelona: 94_percent punctuality. Medium distance: 58_percent punctuality. Tortosa: 40_percent punctuality. That's not acceptable. And, therefore, we must make decisions in this sense. And, therefore, we have agreed on what kind of investments to bring up to date to the calien network... which is executed, which is done. And we with RENFE held a meeting the other day and prioritized certain actions. The Vandellòs corridor gives us many opportunities, it will allow us to reduce journey time. We're moving in those terms. And RENFE itself proposed to us that the Coordination Commission between the Generality and Adif was not informative, but it was decision-making. This is what we need, and we are working on this line to be able to make the decisions that suit this country. And you decide whether to play around here or play for Madrid; that's your option. Ours is very clear. Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.37.0	Ask the government about the communication media. [[Ask the Government about communication media]] [[310-00014/11]] The question is posed by Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.38.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Munté, we are very concerned about the situation that we are living in the public media in Catalonia, because you have done the same thing that the People's Party has done and the same thing that the Socialist Party has done in other parts of Spain with other public media, but in addition you have added an aggravating, which is also ideology; an ideology that, by the way, is not that of the majority of the citizens of Catalonia. And we are concerned, but it is a concern that is not only ours, it is not this Member's or this parliamentary group's, it is a concern that even workers of these public chains share. And I read it to you textually. The company committee of TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio: "Public media must be at the service of society. The Union of Journalists of Catalonia : « The first debt of the information services is with the spectators, not with the government. And I ask you, Commissioner: we have made proposals, a proposal which seeks to make it more plural when it comes to choosing the body's advisers. We have made a proposal that the advisers should have 15 years of experience in the communication sector. What are you going to do to make Catalonia's public media more plural?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.39.0	There's the word Constellera Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.40.0	Thank you very much, President. I see that this question is the continuation of the debate we had last week at the hearing before the Committee on Institutional Affairs, when we talked about the objectives of the Presidency Department. There, his parliamentary group, alongside the People's Parliamentary Group, insisted once and for all on questioning the neutrality of public communication media. I thank him for the opportunity he gives me, once more, to defend this plurality. We will do so as often as ever, from the government, because we will continue to bet on public communication media as guarantors of the normalization of our language; of the visibility of all opinions, ideologies and beliefs; of social cohesion, and also of the spread of the democratic values of the country. I want to reassure you, I want to reassure you: you must have no concern about this neutrality and this plurality. The media of the Catalan Corporation are under the control of different institutions and bodies: from this Parliament, for example, and its control committee, which its parliamentary group certainly chairs; also from the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, and from other bodies, such as the Contingent Adviser Council or the professional councils of TV3 and Catalonia Radio. Certainly, the intervention and total criticism of a person of his party, Mr Girauta, deputy to the Congress, forced and caused these workers, these professionals of the public media – de Catalunya Ràdio, concretely – to issue a note, also, in defense of their honorability. Therefore, it is not concerned, it has the greatest peace that this pluralism of our public media is fully guaranteed, and both reports and ratings, as the appreciation that the citizens of Catalonia appreciate it perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.41.0	The word "Mr. Fernando de Páramo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.42.0	Thank you, Madam President. Commissioner, you always talk about the same report, which is a report by the ACC, which is a report on the electoral campaign. If you no longer comply with the campaign blocks, then we already have a problem; if you no longer comply with the LOREG, then we already have a more serious problem. Are you saying, then, that the workers are lying? Are you saying that the company committee is also lying? Are you saying that this opposition is lying? Because it was several groups that told them in the committee the other day; it was also Catalunya Yes that it is Pot, it was the Socialist Group, it was the People's Group, it was also this Ciutadans Group; not just us. And you have two options, basically two options: to say that we all lie, that we have all gone crazy and that the media in Catalonia are the most plural in the world, or, if not, have a second option, and it's an opportunity, and this is where we reach out to you; an opportunity for the media in Catalonia to be plural once and for all. If you choose the first option, as you will understand, you will face us to claim that the means are citizens'. We do not want the media to be either Citizens', or the PP's, or Convergence's, to be of all, of all Catalans, who feel represented those who are independentists and those who are not. We do not want means for the political parties, we want means for the Catalans. And if you choose this second option, for this opportunity, you will have us next to you – you will have us next to you, to build media that are of all, and media that are plural. They have to choose between saying that nothing happens and that everything goes well, or between changing things.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.43.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.44.0	Thank you, President. What is not lied are the hearing indexes; not only the reports of the ACC, which also, but the hearing indexes. Information about TV3 and Catalunya Radio, as the first option more widely chosen for citizens. Are the citizens wrong? Are the citizens lying? 2015 GFK Quantitative Analysis Report: TV3 Telenews, leaders in credibility, trust and impartiality. Listen, you're making a proposal that's not innovative, it's not new. In fact, the current Board of Governors of the Catalan Corporation and its president, Mr. Brauli Duart, have already been chosen for this Parliament precisely for a majority of two thirds. He was chosen with a total of one hundred and six votes of the one hundred and thirty-five possible; seven votes over the norm, which set these two thirds of what you are talking about. And it didn't heat up a second time. Choose all members for their career path, for their professional merits. In any case, a lot more pluralistic public media in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.45.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.46.0	...that the communication media...(The president withdraws the microphone's use to the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.47.0	Question about the concession of the management of Aigues Ter Llobregat. [[Ask the Government about the concession of the management of Aigues Ter Llobregat]] [[310-00012/11]] The question is posed by Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.48.0	Thank you, President. Last week, at the appearance of the vice president and economic advisor, our group asked him what the position of the government was with regard to the hot potato they had on the table, on the concession of Aigues Ter Llobregat and its conflict; the counselor at that time did as if you felt rain. And the question is whether the Government has an opinion on this conflict, which is its opinion, how it intended to address the conflict and whether it had anticipated, too, to resolve it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.49.0	There's a word from Councilman Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.50.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, I've responded to the previous intervention. We have a specific requirement, we're working it, we're working it on the ground, and what we're planting are various acting scenes. We'll have the chance to talk to him on the sidelines that some group has put us in this room, huh? And that will obviously go beyond the reflections, the answers I could now give him in these two minutes and a half. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.51.0	The word has Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.52.0	Counselor, I see you also feel rain. Mirin, ATLL was left with 750_million euros of debts and..., lacks political value to face the bidding of tariffs that had to complete the sanitation plan that it had at that time. This was the inheritance that left the tripartite. Our parliamentary group was aware of this heritage, and we have tried to be consistent from the beginning. We did not consider it a magnificent solution, the outsourcing of this public enterprise, but we went into the future and continued to defend it, unlike other groups that at that time...; some defended outsourcing and not now; others were against outsourcing and now, surely, defend it from the same government...; this is the difference between some groups and others. But the truth is, it was very bad, that management. The bidding started on 1 gene and the same 2 gene there was already an executive resolution that said the execution was wrong. The High Court of Justice twice ratified that executive resolution; so did the Supreme Court. The June of last year, the High Court of Justice says you have to cancel the award because it's wrong, and the government, at all that, as if you feel rain. Now we have a report from the Anti-Fraud Office, which is already strange, because the hermetism of the investigations of the Anti-Fraud Office has failed, precisely, on this occasion, without there being a definitive resolution of respect. But we would like to know and believe that, before the suspicions that they are posing on the table with this report from the Anti-Fraud Office, the government would, as a minimum, say what its position is and not act as if you continued to rain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.53.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.54.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, we continue to defend – and we defend before the Justice – that this procedure of externalization of the service, under certain circumstances, insists, that they are very hard, does not externalize by cosmic chance, but externalizes before a very complicated financial situation. And, therefore, either we have this starting point or it will be difficult for us to hear anything. And, therefore, we are, at these moments, defending the position of the government before the Supreme Court. With regard to this layout that the Anti-Fraud Office does, I have explained to you before exactly what the terms are. First, I want to make two things very clear: the service – the quality of the service – did not feel it, or; two, there was no impact on the fare that at these times the citizens pay. These are two elements and are two basic elements, clear. According to the Government of Catalonia, when it detects that it is acting without the authorization of the same Generality, it acts, and acts very quickly. At the moment we detect that the operator that is created has invoiced ATLL dealership, we possess ourselves..., we ask the dealership and we say that it automatically stops this action that does not have the authorization of the Government of Catalonia. And we put it in the knowledge of the tax agency. These are the two performances there are. At this point, what do we have? That this operator, therefore, has been neutralized – it does not exist – and all the effects of an act that was not an appropriate act have been reversed. And, therefore, at the time he was playing and when he was playing, the Government of Catalonia took the decisions as a control body of this concession, and always vetting for what he gave to the principle: because the service is continued in a solvent manner and with the quality that the citizens require of us. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.55.0	Ask the government about the role of irrigation in the face of climate change. [[Ask the Government about the role of irrigation in the face of climate change in the agricultural sector]] [[310-00015/11]] The question is posed by Mr Bernat Solé, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.56.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, the 8th generation of the Council of Ministers passed two decrees that included approval of seven hydrological plans of conches, among which was the Hydrological Plan of the conca de l'Ebre. According to the Water Law of the year 2001, the objectives of these hydrological conca plans are precisely the following: "To achieve the good state and adequate protection of the water masses, and also to satisfy the demands for water and the balance and harmonization of regional and sectoral development, increasing the availability of the resource, protecting its quality, saving its use and rationalizing its uses in harmony with the environment. It is clear that the climate change that we are under will require, once a day, for one band, an efficient management of water guaranteeing the full ecological balance for the river of our territory, and for another band, therefore, to guarantee the water resources and the uses of water for economic sectors as important as agri-food, fundamental for the territorial and environmental development of rural areas, which suppose a 70_percent of our territory in Catalonia. For all the above, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, I ask you the following question: before the challenges posed by climate change in the agricultural sector, what is the position of the Government in relation to the role to be played by the regadius of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.57.0	Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.58.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Members; ladies and gentlemen, certainly the climate change has strong effects, to say the least, on our territories. We find that the agroforestry sector – agriculture, treasuries and forests – occupies 70_per_cent and also manages 70_per_cent of the territory of Catalonia, both to produce food as well as to manage ecosystems. In this sense, all the effects; all that is adapted to the same, to the temperature change affecting crop cycles, to all that is also evil and plagues are important strategies of adaptation and mitigation. That said, there are two key factors: the soil, maintaining the fertility of the agricultural soil and managing the water cycle well. In this sense, the regadius are a key piece, we have to see them as an ally, an ally at the time of managing how the agricultural sector makes an efficient use of this water as a great consumer. We also have before us that 28_percent of our country's useful agricultural area is in irrigated and in this 28_per_cent, currently, there is 70_percent of the agricultural production. Therefore, it is also a basic factor for our food sovereignty. That said, we are very clear from the government that we have to bet and that we have to bet seriously. We are clear, and in the 2008-2020 Catalonia Watercourse, we have already prioritized what modernisation is to convert traditional rules into effective rules; we have also prioritized what is the consolidation of our rules, which are in progress, and any new setting of rules must be made under scientific and technical criteria that ensure sustainability in the use of the resource, keeping also, obviously, the full ecological standards. From here, too, the opposition of this government to the Pla hydrológico de la conca de l'Ebre, approved in Madrid, because it does not follow these same priority criteria and these premises. At the same time, we need to be very clear that the government has already repeatedly – many times – shown itself in the desirability of decisively betting on the regattas and has done so much supporting with advice, transferring to the regattas at the time of making this change, adapting to the ability that gives us the efficiency and use of modernized regattas, as well as with economic support. In fact, encanny, we solve 13_million in better plans to help the inversions of pages and rowers in the efficient use of water. In short, we want to bet and hear the regadiu as a skill...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.59.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] There's the Bernat Sole word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Ask the Government about the reasons for which the access examination to the lawyer cannot be carried out in català]] [[310-00016/11]] Ask the Government about the reasons for which the access examination to the lawyer cannot be carried out in català. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Orobig, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.60.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs, honourable counselors, are well-known for the difficulties faced by citizens and the different legal operators in our country in using Catalan language normally in the field of Justice Administration. Proof of this fact is that, according to the public girls data of the year 2015, only 12,50_per_cent – I repeat the given: 12,50_per_cent – of the sentences dictated by the jurisdictional organs with it to Catalonia were written in Catalan. In this context, the year 2015, the different laws of lawyers of Catalonia, the Catalan Institute of Studies and the Catalan public administrations denounced that the proofs of access to the profession of lawyer, to which they competed more than four hundred graduates in law of all Catalonia, more concretely, 442, can only be carried out in castles, violating the legitimate right of aspiring to do so in the language of our country, that is, Catalan. Therefore, such events generated the commitment, in its day, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, to facilitate in a future the realization of the proof in all the official languages existing in the Spanish State. Properly, this month of February, will celebrate the first of the calls of the year 2016 for proofs of access to the profession of lawyer, that is, proofs of access to the lawyer. It would be interesting to know to this Member and to the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Yes, for which reason it will not be possible to carry out the examination of access to the lawyer, which organizes the Ministry of Justice, in Catalan language. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.61.0	The word has the counselor of Justicia, Mr. Carles Mundó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.62.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Well, the Government of Catalonia, for some years now, has insisted on the Ministry of Justice so that evidence of access to the profession of lawyer can also be done in Catalan language. Multiple writings and requirements have been addressed to the ministry and, in fact, the same ministry, in the technical committee between the autonomous communities and the Ministry of Justice itself was compromised, and so it is in the record, that in the next call, which is this February 2016, the evidence could also be done in Catalan language, but ultimately this was not possible. We offered cooperation with the Ministry of Justice because that was possible. We have offered technical means for translation, ensuring the terms that we consider appropriate to ensure confidentiality, and this has not been possible either. I myself spoke to the Minister of Justice about this issue, insisting on this fact and on this offer of cooperation, but it was not possible. And it wasn't possible not for technical reasons – and it was admitted for the same ministry – but it was, in short... it wasn't possible because it didn't give them the desire to do it. Because we've got reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, there's reason to do it, technical means to The conclusion, therefore, is that if this could not be achieved, it is due to a lack of political will. And you said it very well: in the field of justice, effort is well needed to normalize the Catalan language; only 12_percent of the feelings are in Catalan and, in change, at the time of access to the lawyer, Catalonia can only be advocated if the castle is used, cannot be advocated by doing the proof in Catalan. In fact, it turns out that in schools, if a student asks for it, they all have to change the language, but in change, if nine hundred graduates in right ask to take the test in catalá, this is not possible. For the Spanish State, too often, and, in concrete terms, for the Government of the People's Party, linguistic plurality, linguistic diversity, is not a rich one; in fact, it is an anomaly that can fight. And that's why it came down to the whole Council of Europe when in a report of the 20th generation it denounced the Spanish State because it does nothing because official languages in the State can be present in a normal way in justice. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.63.0	Question about the maintenance of the railway network administered by the public enterprise of the Adif State. [[Ask the Government about the maintenance of the railway network administered by the public enterprise of the Adif State]] [[310-00018/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Joan Ramon Casals, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.64.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Josep Rull, the Spanish State has for decades resigned from infrastructure investments in Catalonia, and this is regardless of the political colour in Madrid, and this is still more evident in the lack of maintenance and investment in the rolling stock. It may be recalled, for example, that the Roller Plate approved for Mr. Zapatero 2008-2015 ran less than 10_per_cent. And it has reached a point of total lack of reliability and continuous interruptions of the public transport service for drawings of thousands of people, with damage and incidences like that spent last week, which affects much of the network of rolling stock and retruc, also, that of the metro of Barcelona. The same European Union has recently criticized the Spanish State's rail investment policy, which responds to totally political criteria and spends thousands of millions of euros – 3,500 per year 2015 – on high-speed Catalan money and oblivion of basic investments in the maintenance of the proximity network, especially in our country. These are the preferences of the Spanish Government, spending on lines with little economic viability on accounts to invest in lines used for thousands of people. This results in heavy damage to the services, with promises of investments that are not complete, that certainly again promise the next year and that they are not complete, for example coming to have third-world stations, where there are large people or people with mobility difficulties who cannot access lives, or with constant delays or interruptions of the services. As you well said, those of us who live in a band of the Llobregat, who are the ones who are in Adif, do not have it solved; in change, those who live in the band of the Railways of the Generalitat have it solved. Well, counselor, the State has many ways of violating the basic rights of Catalans. Sometimes it does so with Constitutional judgments suspending statements of Parliament or, even so, councils or advisers; but it also violates the basic rights of Catalans as it does with Rodalies, suspending investments or constantly leaving the service suspended for its lack of maintenance. What will the Government of the Generality do to end this injustice that we suffer from Catalans and Catalans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.65.0	There's a word from Councilman Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.66.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, you've explained it very well. There are many arguments for independence, and this is a very clear argument for asking for independence. Look, the last great mass service that the Spanish State provides to Catalonia – the last great mass service – is this system of rollers, and it does so with conditions that are not correct, that are not adequate, that are not worthy. And so that's the compromise this government has, and that's why it's a national transition government because, either we radically change the rules of the game, or we have absolute control over the territory, or it will be very difficult to reverse this situation. And so, this is the scheme, and the basic scheme, and you're referring to it. It is unheard that the president of Adif, before what passed last week's Tuesday, seek excuses immediately: that if they are the Mossos d'Esquadra... Esconti, do not seek excuses, give answers. And you have to donate them with terms that are appropriate. Meanwhile, what are we planting? We plant three very concrete, very specific measures. First: the capacity agreement, which is the coordinating body between the Generality and Adif, must have decision-making capacity. This was proposed by Renfe, and with good sense and with good criteria. First element. Secondly: we want to know what concrete time limits of speed there is on the Catalan railway network to be able to reverse it. And Adif is not acting unilaterally in this sense of need and affecting the service that is owned by the Generality. And thirdly, what we will ask for will be a concrete audit of the network's joint at these times, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time. We want it to be brought up to date, to know exactly what the network is because, if not, around Adif there is an absolute realm of uncontrollability, uncontrollability in relation to the Generality and uncontrollability in relation to the same State. That is to say, Adif is the Spanish State that eats the various governments that there are – the various governments of the Spanish State. Before that, we do not want to be an impassable novelist, we will make short-term decisions and set up the same country's ambitions, which we want to decide ourselves. That is why we defend the independence of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.67.0	Questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the operational deployment and the presupposition of the International Protection Plan in Catalonia and about measures to combat refugees]] [[317-00008/11]] Question about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mrs Gabriela Serra, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.68.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. The 28th generation of 2014 the Parliament of Catalonia approved the Pla de protection internationale a Catalunya. The plan was developed for the working group on integrated international protection for the Citizenship and Immigration Table and format for the main entities of the Catalan civil society experts in the field, with the collaboration of the Directorate-General for Immigration of the Government of Catalonia and the Assembly of Barcelona. The plan sought to bring together, coordinate and promote all the solidary action in the field of international protection to our country, supporting civil society initiatives in the field of asylum and refugee. The plan has a duration of four years, two years have passed and the presuppositional endowment that has been allocated until now has been 600_euros peeled for 2014 and 100,000_euros– not so peeled– for 2015. Figures that have proved to be absolutely inadequate. The CUP - Creed Our position is maintained for the Ciutadian Platforms Stop Mare Mortum and Asil. Cat, who are accompanying us today, to defend that the development of the International Protection Platform must lead to the consolidation of a public policy in the field of international protection in Catalonia, sustainable in the long term and to give full coverage to the needs of the applicants for international protection and refugees found in our country. One hundred and a thousand euros is an absolutely insufficient amount to guarantee the development of this plan. That is why I want to ask him: beyond the conjunctural creation that meant the creation of the Committee for the Reception of Refugees, how is the operational deployment of the International Protection Plan to Catalonia planned and what is the assumption that it is intended to provide? According to: Is there any prediction for what makes intervention and the gathering of people forcibly displaced belonging to collections with specific needs, such as now victims of trafficking in human beings, unaccompanied minors or victims of torture, among others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.69.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.70.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I share with you that this is why, among others, the actions you know have been taken, some have described them, others will know them as we have an opportunity to talk about assumptions – the idea that a clear public policy of supporting people in need in this area. That's not new that I'm saying. It is true that we have started with a very, very low presuppositional endowment, that we have improved it, but not sufficiently, and that we will seek agreement, from the outset to this Parliament, but not only to this Parliament, but in the framework of all the institutions that have expressed their willingness to be an actor in the solution to this problem, a presuppositional attribution, a combination of economic, technical, infrastructure and personal resources that responds to this vocation that you say and that the Government shares in having a clear and ambitious public policy. The challenge before us, the greatest, is that of the joint declaration of the last plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia concerning refugees, which starts from the observation to the dismay of the situation of shame with which Europe is dealing with the conjunction of refugees and, in particular, because of two thousand missing children. Therefore, we start from this observation, from the assumption of the worst face of Europe, and we express that we are seeking to use the resources that we have at the abst, requests that I ask, the weight to which I weigh them, to express, precisely, the best face of Europe. Who's the best face in Europe? That Europe that I acquit, that Europe that is solidary, that Europe that cares about the patience of others, and therefore, obviously, to us, as you already know, will find us in all the coordination policies together, from small to large, and in this sense the Government will start this week or the week that sees the round of councillors in Catalonia to explain everything we have planned in this sense. It is up to us to continue demanding and waiting for the State to appear, clearly, with concrete measures, with concrete people and with concrete economic resources, and to approach us, naturally, to promote in a coordinated way through the Lower Council, but involving the conjunction of the departments, all the actions of this Government in relation, above all, to refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.71.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the discharge of the suspension by the Constitutional Court of some of the competences of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency]] [[317-00011/11]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier García Albiol, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, a few days ago, in his parliamentary office, the Councillor of Afers Exterior, Mr Romeva, made it very clear that with his councillor it was the first structure of the state. Thanks to an appeal from the People's Party Government we have known that a very large part of the competitions of this council have remained outstanding. My question, Mr President, is very clear: do you and your government think that this suspension is being complied with?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.73.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.74.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, I have no doubt – no doubt – that this government will continue to act outside and that Councillor Romeva will continue to hear Councillors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds in a hemicicle sector.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.75.0	There's a word from Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.76.0	Mr President of the Generalitat, I do not know if you have not answered me out of ignorance or cowardice. I have asked you in a very concrete way whether you and your Government intend to abide by a suspension that guarantees democracy in Catalonia. Because those like you and your Government who seek to adapt their government action not to the legality and needs of the vast majority of Catalans, but to adapt it to their partisan and ideological interests above the rule of law, are putting democracy at risk. And that is what you have just done with your answer to the very clear question that we have asked you from the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr President, from the People's Party of Catalonia we support an action by the Government of Catalonia, an action abroad, which means promoting exports, speeding up investments for Catalonia, promoting tourism. Of course I would, I'd just miss it. But we are not prepared for you to deceive the vast majority of Catalans, for you to intend to present yourself in Europe and the rest of the world as the prime minister of an imaginary government. It's making a mockery of you and it's making a mockery of the vast majority of Catalans. In Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont, we ask you to act in accordance with the law, and we ask you to take steps to ensure that your Government adapts to the law that is currently jumping according to its own party interests, which do not represent the vast majority of Catalans. The last, or perhaps penultimate, episode we have experienced, and we hope it will not be repeated again, is the meeting with the consuls installed in Barcelona, Catalonia, where it became more than evident that you do not intend to defend the interests of Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.77.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.78.0	...but sell a project...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.79.0	Mr. García Albiol, time is running out. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.80.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, let's say that the People's Party will leave the government the same way it got there: with an appeal to the Constitutional against decisions of Catalonia. It arrived with the word loaded with the appeal against the Statute; it will now leave with the appeal against which it is a statutory competence, defined in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, clearly recognized by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, in which explicitly – explicitly – it recognizes the right of the Government of Catalonia to the legitimate exercise of its external action. And don't give up. We won't give up in any way. Look, Catalonia is no less than other territories where no one prevents them from doing their outside action. And against those who want to set up borders, because they want to set up borders and barriers to our external action, what we say is just the opposite: to us, to be able to help people and businesses, to be able to be supportive, as we have seen now with refugees, to be able to stand at the side of the struggle against the climate change that other countries of the world are making, to be able to raise the barriers that you want to impose on us. And, therefore, the government will exercise, exercise and exercise, at the most, the responsibility it has entrusted to you. Look, the tea enjoined because the citizens have decided; the tea enjoined because in this Parliament it was presented, I presented, a plan of government, against which it did not resort, certainly, in which explicitly it was the creation of this council, and the tea enjoined because the State, I insist, assigns to us, and you will see it in the decree of functions that governs the council, exactly the mark of acting in an absolutely impeccable and agreeable way, I insist, with the mandate of the citizens. Don't anticipate events. The Constitutional Court has not yet ruled. He didn't do it. We'll expect you to. But in any case I'll tell you, since you can also hear these things, in this case quoting not a poet, but a footballer, a great Catalan footballer, who I would say to the Constitutional Court: "Thank you, Constitutional Court, everything started with you. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.81.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the convenience of keeping Josep Antoni Rosell in a public office]] [[317-00009/11]] The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.82.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Look, a few days ago, while regretting the appearance of former President Jordi Pujol before the National Audience, Mr. Francesc Homs stated that Convergence has broken past practices. There are some facts, as well, that make us doubt that your Government is really determined to break, to leave behind, a political culture that has done a lot of harm, a lot of harm to Catalonia and all of Spain, some practices that have seen the use of institutions and public resources for the benefit of private interests, family clans and political parties. You see here that a few days ago we also knew that Mr. Josep Antoni Rosell, the former director of Infrastructures, currently accused in the framework of the investigation on 3_per_cent, occupies a new creation in the same public enterprise as, I quote, "responsible for the project of international activities of investigation, innovation and research. God don't do it! With a title like this, it's understandable that the salary is worth 139,000 euros a year. Very honorable, I ask you the question because it seems that these last few days of your business and justice advisors do not have much agreement about what to do with this lord and you will have to arbitrate. Beyond the presumption of innocence in court proceedings and in criminal cases, the question is: does it not seem fearsome, not aesthetic and not aesthetic to keep Mr. Rosell on the mark of a public enterprise? Who's to say, who's to say, you think we're moving to the city, that you're sick of so many corruption scandals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.83.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, you know what the position of the government has been regarding this issue and all that they have to see. And, therefore, from this point of view I can only reiterate to him what they have already said in a coordinated and coherent manner the advisers who have spoken out in respect. When there's a reason that makes us think that Mr. Rosell doesn't have to be the object of the government's work, we'll make the decisions. But this isn't like that yet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.85.0	There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.86.0	Justly, the question is not of a judicial nature, as I said, but of a political and aesthetic nature. Actually, a person who has been involved and who is at the center of the hurricane from a corruption scandal of the major dimensions..., I believe that any responsible government would be to remove it, if not cautiously, from its functions in a public enterprise, a company that continues to represent and company in which it continues to collect from all Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, the question is absolutely political. It is: who messages, insists, transfer you to the city? You think, and I end up with this, that the behaviors we have here are Spanish, more Spanish than some chestnuts. They are there; here we keep them to public enterprises.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.87.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.88.0	Thank you very much. We have always insisted, Mr. Rabell, that things should be done well. For everyone. Not by aesthetic criteria. Because by aesthetic criteria, let's say, there would be a lot of contrasting opinions, and we certainly wouldn't agree. Mr. Rabell also spoke of aesthetic issues, and here I think it's all questionable and thought-provoking. But in any case I would like to reiterate what the spokesman, who also said by Mr Mundó, said by everyone that he has been questioned in this regard, that it is that Mr Rosell does not develop a directive or participate in the decision-making process. On the side of that, if someone has any value for the presumption of innocence, which I think you have for everyone, I seem to be doing well to respect it. Because the presumption of innocence is a guarantee before there are firm feelings, which would force us to make decisions, naturally. And as soon as there is information about the scandals that you have mentioned, that you are under investigation and that you are in your court, that, let's say, invite us to make decisions, this government will not take two minutes to take them. If you have to take them. But I suppose you all have to understand that justice has to make its appeal, and that before many situations that in the past and would still have been covered by large scales, as may be that, the feeling has not been in the direction of aesthetic perception. Now, this government will not find it, at the moment – and it has been said in the case of Aigues Ter Llobregat – that it has a strong sense of some question that it is not regular..., to act in a fulminant way, that it is what it has done in the past and that it will do in the future when it has the least awareness that this is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.89.0	Question about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the maintenance of Josep Antoni Rosell in a public office and about the guarantee of transparency of government action]] [[317-00010/11]] The question is made by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.90.0	Thank you, Madam President. And in the first place, as far as the joint of the chamber was concerned, I wanted to join the condol for the death of Muriel Casals and transfer it to his family, the people of Omnium and the people of Junts for the Yes. And now the question, Mr. President. His government is to a great extent a continuation of the past. And from our point of view, that's why some preoccupational elements of the previous stage of government mortgage their action. And in concrete terms I will refer to two questions that have already been raised by other spokespersons and other Members, such as the attribution to the tender competition of Aigues Ter Llobregat or the attribution of responsibilities to Mr Josep Antoni Rosell. And my question is the following: what guarantees can you give the chamber of transparency and total scrupulousness in the effort to clarify questions like these and to avoid any doubts about respect?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.91.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, you ask me for guarantees of transparency, and I give them all. I don't just give them away. They are given all the Government, and in particular the Councillor Romeva, who is responsible for ensuring that the transparency exercise, which is binding and voluntary, is maintained and expressed in the limits in which we are compromised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.93.0	There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.94.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank him for the guarantees, which is what I asked him to do. But, for example, and speaking of the subject of Aigües Ter Llobregat, his group, together with the CUP, avoided that in this very Ple is able to debate a proposal of law presented for the Socialist Group to reverse the concession of ATLL to Action. And we did it after court decisions on the nullity of the competition and very worrying information on the management of concessionary companies were accumulated. We have not seen any action by the government to clarify this question. And in our opinion, it produces a pure continuity in relation to the management of the former Government, which, I do not think, poses a radical question. Therefore, guarantees, but also decisions and actions, that in this sense we do not see. On the subject of Mr. Rosell's nomination, I agree with you on the need for scrupulous respect for the presumption of innocence. Now, when you say as the only explanation that it was a decision already taken, I see myself forced to ask him if you become co-responsible, if you consider this to be a good decision. And I don't think it's just a matter of aesthetics, Mr. President... but in any case, and I admit it, it's always questionable questions. Look, I think you're the first person who's interested in proving that in certain matters his government isn't strict continuity from the past. And I believe that in the effort, which must be of all, of transparency, of honorability, of transparent management, of any opacity, your government can and must do more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.95.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.96.0	Thank you very much. I'll start with that later than you said. If we can do more in transparency and honorability, believe that we will. And this is actually the government's task. And in the passes we've been doing like the government you'll always see, and if you don't have a chance to report it, this vocation of transparency and honorability. And, therefore, from this point of view I didn't doubt it. And it's true, you can say: "You only carry one and a half and therefore ask me, let's say, an act of faith. I don't think so – because we already know each other a little – and I think you understand that when I commit myself to this, and, I insist, I don't do it alone, I do it on behalf of the whole government, of advisors and advisors, this is not a free compromise, it's a measurable compromise. With regard to the subject of Aigos Ter Llobregat, you must not have heard me say, at the moment, that we discard no scenes. But to take an option for some of the scenes where circumstances and general interest in us, we, because it's a big economic assumption, etc., we have to do them very well, that's what Councilman Rull did, and that's what the former government did, because it's not true that it didn't do anything. The moment the former government is aware that there are some anomalies in the management, it is the first interested to go to the tax agency, it is the first interested. I'll do it. And they stop this, too, taking the decision of the Anti-Fraud Office, which we are obviously studying and which will obviously have its reaction, and which in the light of the economic reports, legal and administrative, will invite us to make decisions. Those who must be – those who must be –; we have no hands attached, in this environment, to us. And the same way I tell you that we don't have them in this, we don't have them for what they do to the decisions that we have to make in the future in the names of people who have been nominated and that maybe in the future, if they don't have to be, then they won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.97.0	Question about the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the maintenance of foreign action despite the suspension of the Constitutional Court and about the judicialization of politics]] [[317-00007/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to take advantage of these seconds to express our most sincere condolences to family, friends and companions of Mrs Muriel Casals. That said, Mr. President, we already know that you have a single objective, that it is to declare independence, and that you are more likely to use it as a magic menu to solve everything, or, better, to cover it all up, right? But they're already going down with reality, and only on the day of yesterday did we know that there's a legal report from the same Parliament that says that there can't be a joint petition for these three laws to declare independence, and, moreover, there's been a suspension from the Department of Foreign Affairs, which is, of course, said "External Affairs, not External Action; I already like to hear it talk and rectify a little bit and talk about external action. You, Mr President, I've told you many times before, you don't have the social majority to do what you're doing, you don't have international support for much of the search, you don't have legal coverage, and you're mostly not right. Therefore, my question is: will you follow this path, knowing that you don't have any of these things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.99.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madame Arrimadas, you ask a very concrete question, which has a very concrete answer: yes. Yes, because – I said before – I have presented a plan of government, a plan of government that you approve – it is not a whimsical opinion – for the absolute majority of this chamber, which obliges us; it is not a question of will, that we have it, but it obliges us, parliamentaryly, to say democratically, to answer "yes to the question that you ask me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.101.0	It has the word the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.102.0	Thank you, Mr. President. The election program is never a patent course to do what you want. You will be able to carry out the electoral programme, as we can all do, within the law and respecting the courts. Because politicians in the 21st century are not above people. And besides, you're provoking something that's dangerous, and that's that you're judicializing politics... [[remorse of the voice]] 'Cause... yeah, yeah... [[Strong remorse of voice and applause.]] You are constantly judicializing politics, because the one who skips the laws knowing that justice is going to work is the one who judicializes politics. That's what citizens know, and companies that don't want to get into trouble don't prosecute their businesses when they know they don't have to jump the laws. And they do something else, which is: they politicize – they politicize – justice. And here today we are going to bring a proposal to eliminate strenghts and eliminate the political control of the High Court of Justice. And I would love to know what your parliamentary group will vote on this, because they cannot continue to judicialize politics and cannot continue to politicize justice. We, from Citizens, want to put an end to these two things, because we do not need more central banks but people arrive at the end of the month; we do not need more state structures but people have more operating rooms and fewer waiting lists. If you want to be with people, talking about education, health, fighting also, of course, for improvements for Catalonia before the Spanish government, there you will have a social majority, there you will have legal coverage and there you will have the support of the opposition. If you want to go on the path of independence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.103.0	Madame Arrimadas, time has run out. [[Pause.]] The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, obviously I'm telling you that the only object is not this one that you say, I think this is useless, because you will find me that it always is, and so much so if we talk about refugees, about Aigues Ter Llobregat, about 340, about Rodales, about hospitals..., it's the same: you see independence. And we will explain to him that, precisely, independence – independence – fem so as not to have all these problems that create us day by day that complicate people's lives. Because independence is people's. Do you know what I mean? Patriotism is that of the people, not that of the flags, nor of the ideologies, it is that of the people. And that's why we are firmly committed, not to the election program... which, in fact, also. See, in democracy, the parties compete, they go to the citizens, they present them with a contract, which is an electoral program, and the citizens who vote wait for that contract to be completed. Come on, I don't see anything wrong with this. But I didn't..., I didn't go to the election program; I went to a government plan, which is a very serious thing, which is something approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. It's not a statement of intent, it's an agreement of the plenary. And, therefore, the Governance Platform, which will define the development of government policy, binds us and binds us. And, therefore, there is no element of discussion about this. Well, you say we don't have international support, but just a previous intervention has told us that we don't do those acts that have attached the councils that have accredited Catalonia, which, of course, two hundred years ago that there has been... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I'm referring to another group – to another group. It's been two-hundred years since Catalonia has had its homes, two-hundred years. It is the third city in the world that is not state capital – yet – with more names, with more names, of accredited councils; to career councils, I refer. So, you, if you say that you don't have international support... It's not this one we're looking for; what we're looking for – what we're looking for – it's that the people who are in Catalonia listening, more attentive than some parliamentary group, what's going on, and who ask questions, and who ask answers, that this government will continue to provide these answers. And finally, the judicialization of politics, after the Constitutional Court admitted to filing an appeal that has political effects, I don't think it's the best time to criticize us - it is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.105.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the contact wheel with parliamentary groups]] [[317-00012/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.106.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Still hit by the death of Muriel Casals, we can't be, by reference. There's a lot more than an empty scotch today, isn't there? And that's why we wanted to put our gratitude, above all our recognition and our esteem for Muriel, in his parliamentary office. The recent history of this country has not been the same, for sure, without Muriel Casals. We also want to make a thank you, and we want to make it in your parliamentary office, of all the support shows of all the parliamentary groups, without exception; displays of warmth and support, which we have felt as sincere, because, aside from the political discrepancy, Muriel, for her attitude, for her aptitude, was a person who, for everyone who knows her, is made to be esteemed. At times when there are so many episodes when politics does not like itself, at times when there are so many episodes that the same politics do not like ourselves, these months with Muriel we have known the noblest face of politics. And that's why we want to leave an expression here. That is why, Mr President, the question that we are going to ask you will be very short, and it is: what value does it make, of the contact wheel that you have made with all the parliamentary groups in this chamber? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.107.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.108.0	Thank you very much. On this final part of your question – and then I'll refer to the first one – the appreciation that I make is very positive, because, although we can all think that we are already going with the accredited discrepancies and, therefore, that it was not necessary, I believe that it is absolutely necessary. For many reasons: to listen. I believe that in a parliamentary debate things are said in one way, and when you have a work meeting without time limits, which there is, let's say, personal trust and ideological discrepancy, things are going on in another. I would like to thank all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, without exception, for the attitude with which they came to the meeting and with which the agreements or differences have been translated. I think it's a question that ennobles the parliamentary exercise. And from this point of view, I personally, and I also think I speak on behalf of them, because they also expressed it, we will spare no effort because, despite the discrepancies, there is dialogue and institutional respect and personal respect, which is certainly indispensable for you in some of the routes that we need to pick up papers as representatives of the citizens can find us. Stay here. For my band, I'll insist. And if there is anything that, in this sense, I, personally, am not contributing, I will appreciate, therefore, that the appropriate censorship is made up because I am totally willing to correct it. In the line, in fact, of which Muriel's master's degree has also been, hasn't it? , to whom I had the opportunity to know before politics and, therefore, to whom I know the virtues. I very much appreciate the sincere expressions of condolence that everyone has had. I believe that this also honors us, and obviously honors the family and honours the parliamentary group, but it honors the citizens in general, who, as they think, have seen that, in this country, despite the differences, before tragic situations such as these, no one spares any effort, no one, no one cares about the rings, to express a sincere condolences. Muriel – we have all written, we have all said, tomorrow we will have the opportunity to reiterate it – was a person of personal affection and firm conviction; she was a fighter for democracy, and therefore she was also a dialogue for democracy, from her commitment to culture – with cultures, in fact – with languages, with the environment, with people who went through it badly. Actually, you, Mr. Turull, say that it was the face, let's say, more pleasant, nobler of politics, and you're right; we are proud to have been hers's companions, we owe her a lot. The Government of the Generality decided to tie the gold medal to him because he deserved it – even though you were not a Member – more than enough to get it back. Therefore, from this..., also, from my modesty, all the recognition, the support to the family that has accompanied us an estona and a message to all the people who esteemed her as a scalp and an immense and infinite gratitude for Muriel. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.109.0	The next item on the agenda is the compatibility situation of Members. [[Member compatibility situation]] [[234-00142/11 to 234-00144/11]] The fourth secretary, Mrs Ramona Barrufet, will read out the opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies, which has been published in the plenary's file.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.110.0	"The Commission of the Statute of the Deputies, at its plenary session on 2 February 2016, agreed to draw up the following opinion. After examining the data declared for Members Fabian Mohedano Morales, Maria Rosell and Medall and Carles Prats and Cot, concerning the professional, labour or business activities they carry out and the public offices they occupy, in addition to Article 23.1b of the Rules, the Commission shall, taking into account the legislation applicable in matters of incompatibility of Members, in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Rules, propose to the Plenary the compatibility situation of the Members Fabian Mohedano Morales, Maria Rosell and Medall and Carles Prats and Cot. Palau del Parlament, February 2, 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.111.0	Is it possible to consider approving this opinion by consent? [[Pause.]] If, therefore, there is no objection, the opinion shall be adopted. [[Asking the Government about the new measures to ensure the protection of minors in the field of education and other format spaces]] [[300-00007/11]] The third point on the agenda is the question to the Government about the nine measures to guarantee the protection of minors in the educational and other format areas, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. The presentation of the inquiry will be made by Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.112.0	Thank you, President. Our group wants to express its condolences for the loss of the deputy, partner and friend Muriel Casals. We believe that the best honor we can do to him is to cultivate his values; therefore, to build bridges and respect others. Madam Counselor, these days the Catalan society has seen with great concern the news that appears regarding the sexual abuse detected in a collegiate of the Marists and now also of La Salle. It is obvious that the Catalan Parliament is obliged to analyse the reasons for which situations of this kind can be produced without the activation of the mechanisms of action. We don't, so, like a beautiful case, just like a case that has to bring us all and everyone to reflect on what has happened, what has failed and how it could have been avoided, so that a fact like this does not happen again. It's our duty, it's what makes our political function felt, counselor. And it is what we modestly claim with our inquiry: to contribute in a positive way to improving the policies that can be adopted to ensure the protection of children in the educational and other formats. And, also, break the silence – break the silence – because it is not the silence of the creatures that favors the actions of the abusers, it is the silence of the school system, the judicial system, the health system; in short, the silence of the whole society. The facts produced in the Maristes de Sants - Les Corts manifest this silence, they manifest that in many cases the rights of children and young people remain in a_second plane before the protection of other interests such as the prestige of the centers or entities affected, the repercussions that it might have on the public might have or the safeguarding of a poorly understood corporatism. Sexual abuse of children and young people is still a taboo issue that it costs to talk about because it bothers. We tend to draw 'em from the world thinking that they are rare, punctual situations and that this at our house does not happen or at our school does not. The reality and the data we have, however, say the opposite. The majority of sexual abuse every 85_per_cent is given in trusted settings: family, school, sports, catechesis, reading. Only a 15-percent of child sexual abuse occurs at the hands of strangers. And it's calculated that a five-year-old is a victim of abuse at least once in his life. Therefore, this is a common force phenomenon and in environments that are and must be trusted for creatures. And we can't close our eyes because, if we do, we also become guilty. And neither can we wait to act every time that is produced a demolishing fact as is the case of the Alba case in 2005, which propelled the Marked Protocol of Actions in cases of sexual abuse and other heavy to minor maltreatment, from September 2006, to instances of the Syndic of Greuges, or as in the case we are now dealing with. Counselor, we must act before drama is generated. According to our appreciation of the facts, which we know basically for the entities that fight this scam and for the communication media, the whole system has failed. The responsibilities are diverse and involve everyone. First, the school failed, saying that it did not know the protocol of the Generality and that apart from reporting it to the Prosecutor did not notify the Department of Education or the DGAIA. Neither did he devote himself to proving whether there were other cases, as it was foreseeable, nor did he notify the families or the alumni, it seemed that he only informed him of the cloister. And even more, there are serious doubts about your collaboration with the police. According to, the Department of Education has failed, which is unclear whether the protocol of action between the departments of Benestar Social and Education signed in 2012 obliges the concerted schools to communicate the case to their department. In change, reading the protocol proves that there is no distinction between public and concertades. And in any case, despite the fact that the title of the concerts is not of the Generality, these centers are part of the education system, and it is the responsibility of the Department of Education, counsel, to ensure that in all educational centers without distinction are protecting the rights of our infants and young people. It should be noted that in the protocols it is not said that the Teaching Department should be informed, and this should be done, of course. And third, the prosecution failed, which did not pursue the crime of officers. I insist, Counselor, there are shared responsibilities, but much is especially the responsibility of the Teaching Department. The department must feel concerned as it is not only the subject matter, but the integral education of the person all that must be of his or her competence. That's why I'm asking you, counsel: what will your department do because a case like this doesn't happen again? What administrative consequences will it have for the school? Will you do an audit, the school, how did the syndic recommend yesterday? We, after analyzing the various reports and protocols, consider that not only have the circuits failed, too the focus should be improved, at least for what it does to two aspects. U: The protocols place the emphasis on the fact that the professionals of the educational and formatting centres can detect the existence of abuse in the family environment, but there is no emphasis on the fact that abuse can occur precisely in the educational contexts. And two: on the other hand, the protocols are focused on the detection of the problem, more than not on prevention. And that should be essential. Let's look at it from the point of view of what we already have: the detection. If they could introduce a few better ones. First better: we propose that the Department of Education should ensure that protocols are not only sent, but that they are rejected for the direction of the centres, such as once claiming a tornado signature. In fact, the 2015 syndic's report says that it observes imbalances in the application and compliment of the protocol, and also entities working against sexual abuse have confirmed it. Second better: we propose, too, that teachers, monitors and monitors of reading and sports, catechists, etc., receive a formation that allows them to recognize indicators of sexual abuse and maltreatment, but not only that, but also that they receive information in relation to children's rights. This need also appears in the syndic's report. Thirdly, we propose measures to avoid the defencelessness of the teacher who wants to report the facts, without risking any risk, especially for her job. This is also an aspect that the syndic assigns to him. Fourth better: we propose to involve the families – more –, to involve the families more; we do not want them to feel twice as victimized, but on the understanding that a father or a mother is not receptive to language, often not verbal, that they make their children serve to express the discomfort they feel. We think that creatures are forced to shut up because this is how the abuser imposes them; we think of the disconcert that generates this behavior on the part of someone who is supposed to esteem them and that they believe, and we think of shame, feeling of guilt and feeling of betrayal that generates them to talk to us. All this is worth the abusers, but families should know how to listen to the scoundrel and should be alert to sudden reactions, such as not wanting to eat, peeing on the mountain or refusing to go to school. We want, in this sense, to thank the visualization work that the Vicki Bernadet Foundation is due to finish. In any case, we want to insist on the fact that, if detection is important, prevention is more important. Making sure that creatures don't go through the wrong way of sexual abuse should be our priority, and this is where we see the most shortcomings. That is why we propose that the area of emotional education be seriously expanded, in which training for children from P3 and to finish their studies, so that they are aware of what they should not tolerate from a companion or adult, for example, the invasion of their intimacy. Everything, however, must not be alerted. I'd like to read them a fragment of a Jaume Funes article about this case. He says: "Alert, our infants cannot be wary of all adult proximity. Attention with alarms, alerts. There is no child without naivety or creativity, without freedom to manifest his body, without being able to make the hugs he wants. This – this – we also have to take into account. Finally, I just want to add that our creatures and young people deserve to work together to eliminate sexual abuse from their trusting realms. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.113.0	There's a word for Constellera Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.114.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam Member, let me begin by thanking you to your group as you have presented this question. I think this is an issue that concerns us and concerns us all and that we need to deal with it with this rigour and with this feeling. Therefore, I would like to thank your group for the question you have asked in this case. As I have already expressed in my appearance to the Education Commission, the government's duty before these facts is so heavy and that they are causing and have caused so much pain and so much patience to children and their families, because precisely their basic rights have been violated, is to remain, first and foremost, at the side of these young people, through the specialized resources of which we have, and to make clear whether the procedures have been correct and, obviously, to review all existing protocols. To begin with, as you have also made reference to, in this question raised by your group, what measures are there to ensure the protection of the child, and you have made reference, also, to more areas than are only sexual abuse, but we would like to, and as the Government has the obligation to explain it, how it develops the protection of the child through the educational environment. Obviously, this is a right that is recognised in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia; and already in this same statute, Article 166 says that they are the social services "to the exclusive competence in the matter of the protection of minors, which in any case includes the regulation of the rules of protection and of public institutions for the protection and protection of the minor unemployed, minors at risk and minor offenders. In recent years, it is also true that there has been an increase in social awareness of children's rights and the need to set up safe spaces and coexistence. But also, you must be very alert because we have not advanced far enough in this area, and therefore we must follow and consolidate these rights. It is for this reason that he has worked and that he must continue to work a lot in the line of detecting and cataloging the different forms of violence that minors can suffer until they are adults. The obligation of the Teaching Department is to identify those classes of violence that minors can suffer. And we don't just have to do it – and you've made reference – thinking only about the educational centers, because there's not enough just acting in the educational centers, we have to think, too – and we share that – about the important role that families have in this environment and in the protection of their children. The department places the abst of educational centers – and then we will explain it as – specific protocols, and also orientations to families, to detect and intervene before possible situations of violence; protocols that, if they can well contribute to generating free spaces of violence, they also have to serve, above all, also, to train all the students in the defense of their phonenal rights and in the positive management of conflicts. We have different protocols: the Protocol to prevent, detect and intervene in situations of hatred and discrimination. This is a pioneering protocol at the level of the Spanish State that offers applicable resources before any conduct of hatred and discrimination on grounds of race, gender, affective orientation and gender identity. There is also a prevention protocol, detection and intervention against school settlement. We also have a preventative protocol, detection and intervention in front of cyberassembly between equals. Today, the settlement is not only carried out by traditional channels, but also basically through digital media; a protocol for detection, intervention and prevention in the face of heavy conflicts; and also a protocol for prevention, detection and intervention of juvenile gangs, as well as minor offenders. Therefore, see the importance, too, that we give it; but above all, that we must give it to the field of prevention. And now we're entering the protocol that makes reference in all this case of sexual abuse of minors. There is a protocol for detection and intervention before abuse of children and adolescents. This protocol is aimed at detecting cases of abuse and maltreatment of minors by their peers or caregivers, who are still teachers, monitors or other professionals. And indicators are offered to detect possible abuse and maltreatment, as well as the appropriate referral and intervention circuit. This protocol, as you know, bilateral between the Department of Education and the Department of Benestar – at that time, it is currently Work, Social Affairs and Families – was achieved by the year 2012 in the mark of this syndic protocol, which was signed by the year 2006. You asked: "What broadcast is done at the centres? This is an important element. These protocols are incorporated into the organizational standards and functioning of centres that are approved each year by resolution of the department's general secretary. And there it is given instructions on various aspects, to know a little that are the standards of organization and functions. These protocols, exactly, are linked to these organizational standards and centre functions, which are not automatic procedures for much that every year we do – every year we publish the organizational standards and other..., huh? The whole educational community is very attentive to the publication of these standards, even so, I have to tell you to go to the union table and to the meetings of directors. Therefore, there is communication that these standards of organization and functioning of centers are. But it's also important to see what the timeline of events and the timeline of these protocols is. The year 2006 was marked this protocol, driven by the Syndic of Greuges, between different administrations, which is configured – and the same document says it – as ‘a marc document, which has to be used to isolate the different specific protocols of each performance. So, this is the year 2006. This protocol was and is a landmark document that each department has to put into practice in its sphere of specific competitions. Unfortunately, these hard facts happened in 2011, and at that time there was still no specific protocol on the part of the department. Therefore, I do not share the opinion that you expressed and that the syndic has also expressed, that the protocol does not work. The problem is that 2011 this specific protocol was not, there was only the marc agreement, the marc protocol, where it was said that in case a detected center is communicated to the prosecution. And that's what we're... in principle, the center communicated it to the D.A., but that's what we're assessing. So it's not that you don't work. Unfortunately, it is that there was not yet, the realization of the educational scope of this protocol. Therefore, this syndic's Mark protocol was a proposal that had to be adapted. Now, when these facts have come out, the last of which we have known, now there is the whole government, as indicated by the protocols, the connoisseur, and applying the circuits and activating all the circuits: we have the Department of Justice, we have the Department of Benestar, we have the Department of Education, through the inspection... The protocol does return that must be communicated to the Department of Education through the inspection. This change was introduced in 2014, communicating it both to the inspection and to the territorial services. Therefore, it is protocols that in their moment, unfortunately, were not the ones that are now. Despite that, what I'm telling you is that we will continue to review these protocols. As I say, it was that year 2012 that the Departments of Education and Social Welfare signed this specific protocol, which is clearly under the cover of this marc protocol. This 2012_Protocol has been subject to changes and revisions in 2013 and 2014, and is, as I said, made available to the centres in the context of the course guidelines. Despite this, I return to express our obligation, as you have done, to review the protocols and see if there is any element we can introduce to work on the whole issue of abuse prevention. In the concrete case of the school, we must say that at the moment when they are in the knowledge of the Department of Education these difficult facts, which is a process managed through an information dispatch by the Barcelona Education Consortium, which, as you know, is the educational administration that is in the city of Barcelona. The president of the consortium and the general secretary of the department orders the initiator of this information dispatcher. We asked the center for various information, especially to know what the center knew and what it did every time it knew. All the information that is missing and that may be relevant to the investigation, obviously we will put it in the knowledge of the prosecution, because it is our obligation to work with justice to know what has happened and the responsibility that each person has. At the same time, we also have the obligation to give support to students in this bad way that we are going through, and this is what we have done through the special units that we have, such as the Living Support Unit and the other resources available to the Department of Welfare and the Department of the Interior. And obviously, how we have the open investigation, so we can't give any more details. This case is currently in the hands of justice, which is the body competent to investigate certain precautionary measures, and here we also have to say that at the time we were given, a few days ago, the precautionary measures on the part of the court, which we have done is to activate all the procedures so long as they are due to end, as it could not be in any other way. Therefore, our commitment is of absolute and transparent cooperation to assist in the investigation, and therefore to tell them that this consignor, when it is concluded, will also forward it to the prosecution. I have very little time left in this first intervention, but I do begin to tell you, and I will take advantage of the second part, that we are very much in agreement that we must act very much in the field of prevention. That is to say, we must break the silence of these victims, we must remember that they are smaller, that they are less unprotected and that, therefore, in which we must advance above all it is to break the silence, namely to accompany the students and to give guidance to the teachers, and also to the families, so that they can detect possible clues in some case. These indicators are already there, and in any case, in my reply I would like to explain them, so that you can see some of us and that we can work together to where we need to go. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.115.0	It has the word Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.116.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I also thank you for your answer. However, I found it insufficient and disappointing, because he explained to us the protocols and the times when they were signed, but our group was already reading carefully to prepare this inquiry, and we consider that the department has to be more involved in everything that has happened, so that it does not happen again. One of the things he said is he's hoping to get the court answer to find out what to do with the school. We consider that, in the margins of the judicial response, the school did not act in a protective manner with the rest of the students of the centre and did not take into account the general principle of the child's best interest, which binds both public and private institutions. And, therefore, we consider that some impact must have all this on the school. In any case, we think... that the proposals you have made, counsel, have seemed scarce again, and we think that you should go beyond what the protocols say. We think... For example, we have seen that the protocol provides for a technical follow-up commission on behalf of the members of the Education and Social Welfare departments, which must meet periodically to assess how the protocol was developed. If it has been done – which does not seem to us to have been done – it must be set up, it must follow up on the protocol and draw up reports. But, in addition, we propose that you do a prevalence study of child and youth victimization in Catalonia. The only study there is a study at the Spanish level, and it is 94; therefore, we need it here and updated. We also propose that these camps..., the code that gives the protocol is not limited to being a code of good intentions: that there are still compulsory questions that should follow the schools and that should follow very closely to the department and the DGAIA. We also propose that the Department of Education update and make efforts to have a good school-based observation of children's lives, among which there is the observation of sexual abuse. We propose, as we have said before, that all people who are in contact with creatures have mandatory and face-to-face training, not just an optional and virtual training, as is now the case. We also propose that you are old especially for children with intellectual disabilities or mental health problems, because the data of incidence in this collection are much higher than in the general population. We propose that the Government give legal protection to workers who report abuse. As the prosecutor of Catalonia, Mr. Josep Maria Mena, has already denounced, the defencelessness of workers and workers is total. A complaint for abuse or maltreatment now is not institutional, as should be done, but in a particular way, and the Department of Education does not give support or so much alone to the director of the centre. This removes many possible complaints from the faculty, for having problems with families or internal conflicts. That's what the syndic says, too. We propose, as I said before, that emotional education be seriously expanded and that training for P3 children be included, starting with P3, and until the studies are completed. And it doesn't happen when I talk about this type of training, because the children of P3..., can't use certain expressions, but it can work this prevention, which to us seems to be phonental, it can work, for example, with the count of La Caputxeta; according to the Vicki Bernadet Foundation, it says that it is perfect to work with the smallest rascal. But from seven years on, we can start putting names on things, we can start telling them what they can tolerate and what they can't tolerate. And we're also proposing a campaign of awareness for society in general and families in particular, so as to help prevent – prevent, huh? – and to the detection of these cases. We believe that it would be a way of doing something, once and for all, this taboo that accompanies child abuse. In the very Ple, Catalunya Yes it is I can present these proposals in the form of a motion, and we place all the groups of Parliament to work to build a joint proposal. This is a good opportunity to show that in Parliament we are not just dealing with each other, but we also know how to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.117.0	There's a word for Constellera Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.118.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member of the Commission, you said that we did not specify very well the actions that had led to the end of the department. I insist: the department, the moment it had knowledge of the facts, did various actions. In the first place, he entered the consortium's register on the 2nd of feverish a report of this alleged abuse of social aggression. Immediately, in agreement with the powers that establish the decree of the consortium, the consortium's manager, to the institutions of the General Secretariat, resolved to launch an information dispatcher to the private concerted centre, the Maristes de Sants. In the same resolution the instructor, the legal staff of the consortium, was appointed. On February 9, the report of the Education Inspectorate relating to the first complaint, together with all the documentation provided for the Centre Éducatiu Maristes Les Corts, was incorporated into the information document. Obviously, like this is an internal consignor and this is a consignor who is in legal proceedings... but he did want to explain at what stage we find this consignor. Currently, the Education Inspectorate is carrying out this report on the rest of the complaints filed by students against teachers at the education centre and which will also be incorporated into this information dispatcher. In order to clarify the facts against this teacher, these teachers, were required to go to the centre's address so that you could submit a detailed report on the facts reported and the actions that took place at the centre so as to clarify the facts reported and see what action was taken at that time. Apart from this, we have made available to the Centre and the families of the Centre the Unit of Support for School Living and the other resources available to the other departments, precisely to care for victims and their families. And we've also got to review the protocols. These protocols have been reviewed. Therefore, that committee which, following on from this pact, has produced precisely what it has produced by introducing the revisions that have been made and the modifications that have been made to this protocol, which, as I say, was approved in 2011 and there have been no changes in 2013 and 2014. I coincide, we coincide very much in the whole field of prevention. We must stimulate the complaint, we must break the silence, we must accompany the victims, the students, in these processes, and also the teachers. But tell him that in the protocol I know that they have read, but obviously there is a whole series of resources coming to the educational centers, not just in the form of protocols and digitally, but there is direct attention. We have all the pedagogical counseling teams, we have the psychopedagogs of the EAP, we have social workers, we have this Unit of Support for School Living... And tell him that there have been many interventions in educational centres directly, more than five thousand actions and direct links to centres to try to prevent and detect possible abuses. There is a permanent relationship with schools, obviously. It's never enough, that's to say, the moment there's a case, it's never enough what's been done; so we'll keep on increasing it. But tell him that a total of 16,733 contacts were made with representatives of educational communities, 6,500 meetings and 9,600 presentations that were also made to 287,000 students. These workshops, which are also a fan of collaboration with the Department of Interior, are preventive workshops aimed at the educational community on discriminatory conducts, on risk situations, also "The Red Cybercaputxeta – therefore, it is also a resource that we serve – on youth groups, on the secure internet, on abuses, etcetera. Therefore, despite this, tell him that, obviously, we will empower all these formations that are not only being done digitally, but also face-to-face. In the workshop of hatred and discrimination, also during the year 2015, more than thirteen_ thousand people participated. Despite this, I agree that to try to avoid all this we must prevent and we must educate very small ones in emotional education. In fact, in projects of coexistence there is a specific aside in emotional education, because it is the only way that adolescents, that infants, that our infants see that their rights must be respected and that there is no adult – no adult –, neither their family environment nor their school environment, that can violate their rights. And that's obviously starting from the very little ones. From here we're laying out other things. Obviously, a more thorough communication, even though there is, with the centers, for these protocols; review..., which we did, we communicated to the concerted school the adaptation of these protocols, and also other proposals for better, such as good practices for teachers and also education for the prevention of these possible cases. I insist, with your young lady, that we also have a chance to evaluate the different points that make us, but I think it will be very possible to come to terms with all the pleas to eliminate this scourge from the sexual abuse of our infants and young people in our society. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen; thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.119.0	The fourth point of the order of the day is an inquiry to the Government on the education system, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Asking the Government about the education system]] [[300-00009/11]] I have the word Miss Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.120.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable counselors, counselors, I would especially like to greet the members of the educational community who visit us in the rostrum, such as the Platform for a Quality Secondary, by Barberà del Vallès, and all those people who are following us through the media. Look, all groups of this chamber – I'm not sure – agree that education is one of the basic pillars of this society, that we can't talk about quality without equity and that education is an instrument, not only of progress, but of social cohesion and equal opportunity, that cannot be subject to the detailed assumptions. But, as we all know, sometimes there's words to facts, so there's a lot of good ones. As we said last week, during the honourable Member's appearance to the Committee on Education of this Parliament, the Socialist Group is particularly concerned about the increase in inequalities that have occurred in recent years and, in concrete terms, also in the education system, and especially, therefore, this lack of fairness that we understand between public and concerted centres. The details that have taken place in the past few years have not exactly helped to strengthen the public school – the basic pillar of our society – but rather to strengthen a double-track system. This is why the socialists continue to think that we need to recover the six-hour period, because the teaching load cannot be so differentiated between one centre and another; we are concerned about the compaction of the day as an element generating inequality, and that is why we are asking for an evaluation of the pilot projects where it has been implemented before we proceed to expand the centers that adhere to it, and we are against keeping the educational concerts with sex-secreting choices, and that is why we have entered a proposal for a law amending the Law. Therefore, we are against any type of school segregation and think that we can organize school enrolment in such a way that there can be no student exclusions; it is to say..., nor that certain schools selected select students with major learning difficulties, without the fact that certain public schools have to assume school populations with such high percentages of immigration that they make academic work difficult. We also think we need more transparency in concerts. What happened a few days ago in two schools to Badalona poses a manifest until what is necessary to review, not only reactively, pre-registration processes, which is not produced irregularly in these registrations. And, therefore, speaking of an up-to-date ill-advised case, which has been raised in the later inquiry, we also think..., we celebrate, of a band, the government's willingness to review the protocols, but we ask that this protocol be amended, because we understand that it has not worked, nor its application, and to stop exempting the agreed choices of the obligation to communicate cases of child abuse or maltreatment, and that a proper dissemination and training on the compulsoryity of its application is also made. Therefore, we ask the Government to act firmly, to impose greater control over these cases and to withdraw, if convinced, this concert, if the school has not complied with its obligations. But the central point of my intervention is to see with..., the last few days different plataforms in defense of public education, AMPA, unions of teaching, representatives of the local world have manifested themselves shooting from Catalonia against the announcement, made for the same Department of Teaching, of closing of different lines and public classrooms of P3 to different points of the territory. According to extremities of data from the Commissions web page, which in its reply, therefore, I would appreciate it if we were confirmed, we would be talking about the closure of about fifty public lines the proper course, with the consequent effects that this can have on hundreds of children, families, as well as their schools and barrels. And this decision would add to the closure of 475 children's groups in the last three years, about 90 per cent of which in public school. The motivations that add the same department to justify these locks are strictly democratic, in some cases economic, but in no case educational. What is surprising is that demography, in this case a demographic gap among the smallest, which is argued as a cause to justify this closure of P3 lines, is not taken into account in contrary democratic contexts – and here we could talk about the low level of democracy we have at secondary level – when it involves creating new lines and classrooms or hiring more teachers to avoid such high rates. Even if the democratic davalada was the motivator of the public line lock, we would not understand that these lock forecasts are not fair to the agreed one, as it does not happen. On the other hand, we want to denounce the fact that the announcement of future public line closures is produced early in the pre-registration period, which will eventually predetermine the pre-registration of many families at the concerted school to the detriment of the public. That's to say that this ad is unknowing of the real demand of families and thus denying their right of choice. And, therefore, we ask you to hold, if you please, counsel, this practice, because the only one we are asking for is the same treatment to the public and the concertation at the time of offering school places. My group, Madam Counselor, are putting ourselves on the side of these AMPAs, of the educational community, of the local world, to ask you to take advantage of the davalada of birth and the demogrific context between the little childhood to reduce the rates of the public school, to improve the quality of our education, thus paying attention to diversity and contributing to the better of the school success, also maintaining the teaching plants. We understand that the contrary would lead to progress towards inequality. And speaking of childhood, and bearing in mind that the generality's 2010 investment in Bressol schools was €1,000_million and in the present, in those assumptions extended with the vote in favour of Junts for the Yes and the CUP, it is €0, we ask you, Madam Counsel, if your Government intends to regain co-responsibility in the financing of the public municipal Bressol school service and guarantee the payment of the outstanding debt of the joints, which in the present time exceeds €11_million. Because we remind him that they are the gatherings, often lacking sufficient resources, those responsible in the day-to-day keeping and building these children's homes, as well as helping families who can't cope. The other day, in his appearance, we did not get the compromise to recover the contribution of 1,800_euros for the maintenance of each square, granted in its moment with the assemblies, which would be desirable, but announced his will – we understand that it is contingent that there are assumptions and that they are sensitive to education – to apply social tariffing in certain classes of disadvantaged or complex circumstances. But it wasn't quite clear. And I'd appreciate it if you could tell us about it, and if you could tell us what the cost is, they'd think you'd have this measure. So far I have talked about children's education, but if we get back the line from the planning of the school map, in secondary we find, as I said, that we have the opposite problem – demographic – than to children; we have a little demographic that involves the need to create new lines at this stage and we need an educational planning, a forecast of school offer map at long term and not just years ago. And here we see the inconsistency of its layouts, because the low demography used to justify certain P3 line locks is not cause enough, in this case, if it is boom, to create these new lines. And this again, therefore, causes many families, before having no place in a public institute, to derive their children to the school agreed before the lack of places at the time of pre-registration. And that's not to talk about the inadequacy of many spaces. According to a recent answer to a parliamentary question that I myself asked, we still have a thousand schools in prefabricated modules, better known as barracks, added to the lack of reversal to centers to replace these barracks. Taking this into account, we ask you if you can tell us how many public secondary lines you plan to create the next year. And a more concrete question, taking advantage, therefore, of the presence in this plenary of members of the affected educational community, and it is that, before the lack of places necessary for secondary education to Barberà del Vallès and a future projection that is expected to increase until 2020-2021, if they plan to remodel the current IES Can Planas, with severe lack of infrastructure; if they plan to create a third institute, demanded by the whole educational community and the consistor, with the cessation of land since 2010. Taking into account this problem at the general level, the socialists think that it is necessary to explore the school model, collected to the LEC, as a very good solution not so alone in those municipalities or barrels where there is only one primary school and there are no institutes, but also to promote a model of pedagogical continuity. Finally, madame will advise, as you know, the presupposition in public education in Catalonia is kept retaliated in earlier figures, under the heading of 2010. We know that they want to try to approve a premise to make or lay the foundations of a state structure – we have read it and they have communicated it to us – and they ask that, regardless of the rest, they also believe in education as one of the pillars, as one of the main structures that a state has, whatever it is; that it is recovered, therefore, from the reversal before the arrival of Convergence to the Government. The same LEC, in a final provision, speaks that in order to achieve the objectives of the same law the Government must progressively increase the resources of the education system until it reaches the end of six years, it is to say encany, at 6_percent of GDP, and knows perfectly well, therefore, that we are far too long. Therefore, we ask you to regain the prestige of public education, that we have evil; that you make dialogue with the educational community, with the local world, a rule of functioning before the decision making; that you value this co-responsibility and that I accompany, as I said, the deployment of the LEC with the necessary resources. In short, we ask you to reconsider the department's decision to cut lines, classrooms and P3 teachership in many areas where these locks have been announced. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.121.0	Reply will advise the Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.122.0	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member – and also members of the educational community who accompany us – has been asked a lot of questions and with a lot of fears about the table; therefore, I don't know if with the time I will be able to answer them all, but with the will to do so. You started saying that our education system has increased inequalities, and I have to say that the economic and social system has increased inequalities, but luckily, this has not been reflected in the education system. And I'd like to give him the data to show him that this is not true, with two data that are quite decisive at the time of making this statement that we do. The early abandonment of the studies – they know that it is the percentage of the population between divided and twenty-four years that does not..., that he is still a student and that he has obtained a post-compulsory education. According to Idescat's data, the year 2010, this tax was 28.9_per_cent and 2015 was 18.9_per_cent. So, right now, we have more students who have passed ESO and who have continued their post-compulsory studies; therefore, this is a better opportunity for this young person. Therefore, here is a first important difference in what I said. We need to remember that the objectives of Europe 2020 are asking for a 15_per_cent; therefore, we must continue to move forward and we must not be content with this. We are happy with the evolution, which is important, but we need to keep working because these students, apart from finishing ESO, have some post-compulsory studies that allow them to get a job, a decent job and make their dreams come true. Another indicator is the rate of fitness at the age of fifteen; that is, those students who are taking the course that touches them by age. 2008-2009 was 69.2_per_cent and 2013-2014 we already found 74.8_per_cent. Therefore, there are more students who are taking the course that touches them, less repeaters. I, finally, the rate of school graduates, which has increased from 81,8_per_cent to 87,8_per_cent of our young people. Therefore, it is true that, unfortunately, the economic crisis has caused inequalities to increase, that those who have the most have more and those who have the least do not or do not. But it is also true that the school has done this important, social function, that it is intended to be an instrument to reduce these inequalities. And these are, therefore, the objectives, that we do not want to give them as we deserve; in any case this is a merit of all, because in these years there are different governments, and above all it is a merit of the educational centers that are doing everything possible and everything that is in its abyss just to try that those inequalities that come from home to the time of arrival at the center can be solved, can be fixed and can give them a good opportunity for the future. I think it's important to start with this point to see that the Catalan education system works, that the Catalan public education system works, and that it's giving us opportunities that are going through a lot this year. Also, with evaluation data, they say the same, is to say, what has diminished is the difference between students who take a higher level of skills and students who take a lower level. Therefore, what we must all congratulate is that precisely the social and economic inequalities, when they reach the educational ground, are reduced precisely by the great task that our teachers are making. From here on out, you were talking about the six o'clock. She's very knowledgeable, and she's done nothing, about the generality's economic situation. And in his moment he decided that he took it is that this six hour exactly where it is most necessary is in all those centres of greatest complexity. Therefore, we have to say that all the centres of maximum complexity and some others have either an hour, an hour more, or a special support, a personalized school support, to try to get those students who at some point in their education process to stay in the background, to give themselves this support because they can pose, therefore, at the side of their companies and companies. And, as you will see, I insist on this topic of the centres of maximum complexity because then, when you evaluate the results of different centres, regardless of ownership, the public centres have a great result, unfortunately, therefore, this time difference. Therefore, where we keep it is, precisely, in those centers that most need it, because in this you also do it on the day of the apparition and today even if we have to put emphasis on somewhere it is, precisely, in the most vulnerable collectivities. That's why you have all the sense of keeping an hour_six and maintaining a personalized school support in all those most complex centers. You also made it to the compacted day. To tell him that there is a pilot proof here and that the evaluation of the pilot project is positive, and the only one that we have done is, precisely, taking into account that this is an important element and that this is an element that must be accompanied by the whole of the hourly reform that is being implemented in this country, the only one that we have done is to add to it – we will add it because it is not yet selected – a number of centres that meet very concrete requirements so as to expand this assessment, and therefore continue on this pilot project and not make any general extension, but only to continue this pilot project in more centres so that we can also have more evaluation arguments. From here on, you were talking about the modification of the LEC, I insist, that we..., it's our electoral program and our commitment to government, to maintain the LEC, the same..., you approved this law of education in Catalonia, so all the recognitions we have in this law are the ones that we will keep. The other day, too, it was done, and today, too, that the concerted schools select the students. Catalonia has a system and we have to put it in value, and we have put it in value before different institutions; a procedure in which all students go through the same pre-registration procedure as any other; it is to say, independently, the centre where they are vagin – it is public agreement, whether it is agreed or in the same way – all participate in the same procedure. And this ensures equal opportunities and equal access to all these centres. Therefore, there are no different procedures, but it is exactly the same procedure, unlike other communities that do allow educational centres to bring families, in the Catalan education system this does not exist. Transparency in concerts: precisely because there was transparency and because the circuits worked, all these cases that came out to the light, of Badalona, were sentenced; that is, there was the sanction corresponding to each case. Therefore, the inspection was over and the inspection acted in its moment. I don't insist, because I don't have much time left, on the whole subject that we talked about in the previous question, but, I insist, I don't think it's a problem that the protocol doesn't work. The problem is that at that time the protocol was not, or so, there was no concrete protocol in the field of teaching to see how it should be done. Therefore, this is the main problem, that this protocol was not there. And, to finish – and I will need time to my reply – you talk about closing lines, ration, etc. Here I would like to make a first assessment: it is to say, the programming responds to the need for schooling and, unfortunately, in this country the birth rate since 2011 does not cease to be valid. Therefore, it is not the will of this government to close lines of primary. We are also the first to insist – and I am glad that you have also said this – on the same basis that demography is not favourable to us at first, it is very secondary to us; it is to say, the department years ago, and for two years it will be so, that it increases the secondary lines in all the municipalities that are needed. Unfortunately, this is not the same thing we do in primary school, because, unfortunately, P3 students, so, they have declined, and, hopefully, in the future this will not happen and we can continue to increase the number of P3 students. What did we put on the table? In the face of this problem, to say that we have fewer P3 students, we put three points on the table that we are negotiating and talking about – therefore, this is not yet closed – before the commissions to the mixed planning tables. First, the fact that you don't do anything involves a school's lockdown; it's to say, if we have to act before, reducing the number of groups, precisely because after the tria that families do, I don't have to close a school. Secondly, do not stigmatize certain centers; it is to say that this fact of low demography does not produce that certain centers stigmatize. And finally, to guarantee the families that this right of freedom of choice of centres can be maintained, because if we do not do anything before the demographic disaster, what can happen is that many families end up asking for a centre that has no more demands and they have to tell them at their time that they feel very much, but that there will be no line of P3 in that centre, and therefore send them to another centre that they have not asked for. From here, then, all of our predisposition, because that's how I feel, to talk to the gatherings. You ugly..., the concrete case, or asked me about the concrete case of Barberà del Vallès. Look, working at the planning table, there have been many meetings and what I can say at this time is that it is going to create a new institute in Barbera and that the works of Can Planas are also secured. Now, the same way I say this to you, I'll also tell you that this has to be done in a consensual way, but also in a reasonable way. Therefore, this department's commitment to doing the Can Planas works was there and will continue to be there, and also to ensure a new institute. Now, we have to find the best way to ensure that both things are possible. And in any case, I want to refer to the reports and other topics in the reply. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.123.0	I have the word Miss Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.124.0	Okay. Thank you, Counselor, for the answer. Well, it's true that we've talked about a lot of things, starting with the theme of planning. You spoke of these three principles that we do not question, the three principles that you showed. The problem is if you, at the time of making this announcement..., that the department has made this announcement of lines that have already been made, have already taken these three principles into account. Clearly, and in this case, we would ask you that..., that it is true that there are many families, many AMPAs, many plataforms that are mobilizing, that we do think that actually freedom of choice is not always guaranteed; one of the reasons is that at the time when public line bonds are announced, in many cases, so, in some way, implies that these families, as I said in the initial intervention, so already drifting and making a pre-registration in a concerted school. But in any case, we didn't ask him to keep them with five or six infants. We are talking about taking advantage of this new context to precisely reduce the rates, and therefore to primary school instead of twenty-five we can talk about split or twenty-five rates, and that this is not a problem. And, as I said, above all, take into account the local world, the educational community at the time of making this planning, insofar as they are also responsible for not only not hearing this demographic element, which we understand we need to take into account, but also taking into account the consolidated educational projects, and also a planning not yet a year, because this in many cases implies – and the other day, therefore, they explained it to us to Sabadell – the construction, the adaptation of barracks in August, before just the school year, but to make a more extensive planning within the school offer map. I was also talking about high-complexity centres, and we understand and celebrate as good news that the six-hour period can be recovered, so that teachers support groups, but we would like to know the cost that this will have, more than anything else, because when we talk about these sex-secreting schools and we understand that we should withdraw the concert, we are talking about seconds..., and I can deny the data, about 30_million euros, that we think that, in general, therefore, we can say that it is not a big deal, but surely we could be used to advance much more in terms of the quality of public education. And you said: "We have a good education system. If..., we consider that we have a good system, that we do not understand, at all, how it has endured the pressure that it has to hold, because, it is true, efforts have certainly been made to contribute, therefore, to the school success, but we understand that the reduction of teaching or with a great load, or the reduction of teaching hours, does not precisely contribute to this success, rather they are conditions that, ultimately, can generate, therefore, problems in terms of fairness. And the data he gave us for abandonment. So, let's celebrate better in these data, but we also understand that they have to deal with some bad working market conditions in a few years of crisis that..., well, they have certainly also conditioned the outflow of many students, or the non-outflow of many students from educational centers, as it used to be. He did not talk about the school model, which is a model that we defend very much, that we think that, because of the problem that we say, precisely, democratic, in the secondary school, therefore, can provide a solution, not only for the model of pedagogical continuity, but also that, in many places where there is only a primary school, therefore, guarantee this new model of school going well. And, in short, we think that... as you say, so you have given your explanations, but we understand that, for example, concerts..., we would lack transparency, and that we understand that sometimes there have been irregularities, that it is true that they are being detected because there are these mechanisms, but so much good, so it is fassin not only reactively and that we can, therefore, work there often, to prevent these cases from being produced. In general, therefore, we ask you that, despite these principles that you mentioned, you reconsider this decision of this closure, that you take advantage of this new context to reduce the rates, that the publicly funded schools are privately owned, but that they are treated with the same bar as the public school in the case of retailing, and that you keep all the lines in the pre-registration process in order to effectively guarantee the right of families to choose the school they want for their children. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.125.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.126.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member of Parliament, look, so much good is still being done that we can take them among all. The rates to P3 in course 15-16, in 92,9_percent of the cases of the educational centers of Catalonia were either twenty-i-five or under twenty-i-five. Therefore, it is not certain that in Catalonia the rates are much above fixed rates, not: 92,9_percent of the centres are already in the course 2015-2016 under the twenty-five, or twenty-five or under the twenty-five; in the case of children's education, of the whole cycle of children's education, it is 88,7_per_cent, and, in the case of primary education, it is 89,2_per_cent. Therefore, the vast majority, practically in P3, almost most of the centres in Catalonia are with a rate per suba. I'm saying because it's important to know that this is already so, and that, despite that, our commitment is: where did you feel..., where did you feel? How much more did you feel about lowering the rates, just to better serve the student? In the centres of maximum complexity. And that's what we've done and what we've said that we'll be old in this... and that we'll put it on the table in the planning committees, to agree with the municipalities and the educational community. I refer to two territorial services, which I have here before me. Mirin, at Baix Llobregat, from course 12-13 to 15-16, there were 1,414 students under P3. And for the coming course they will download 954, the standard forecast is 954 minor students. Therefore, to take into account, precisely – and this is what has been put in the mixed planning tables – this element, because this is not a davalada of a group, this is the davalada of many groups. We insist. And that's what we need to age it because it doesn't have a stigmatization of centers, because it doesn't have a fence of centers that aren't wanted, and because it doesn't have families sorting a center and then saying they can't go. I would also like to say to you, for example, when you are taking advantage of it to lower the rates, so the average rate at Baix Llobregat is 22.7 students per group. The same goes to Baix Llobregat: there has been a davalada of 1,500 students and, again, the prediction of the standard is 539. Just like that, the Mid-Jane ratio in the West Valley is also 22.8 students. Other issues: the cost of the six hour is already ugly, it is already an element that is already done and will continue to be maintained. You gave the shifra of the concerts; some concerts that were also given at your time, some concerts that were consolidated in the Law of Education of Catalonia and some concerts where there are valid contracts. But if it's a presuppositional issue, we can talk about it another day. It's not a presuppositional issue, I mean, it's not public money that goes to the concert: we have an education service in Catalonia where families have the right and freedom to sort the center. And that has a presupposition. And, therefore, it is not certain that the public's money is leaking to the concert, but that it is money from some families who have also sorted centers. So, if they want one day we'll make a monogram, but I insist, huh? It is not certain that the public money is going to the concert, but that we have an education service in Catalonia and that the generality is compromising on the financing of this education service in Catalonia. You said there was a reduction in teaching. What's happened is an increase in teaching hours. That is to say, this reduction of pressure, and, in change, this increase or maintenance of the quality of Catalonia's education system, precisely because we have asked the teachers to make two more teaching hours, both at primary and secondary level. Therefore, what is to be said is that, despite the decrease in assumptions, this has not affected the hours of teaching that the students have had, because there has been an effort on the part of the teachers. You were talking about the school model: you're recognizable to the Law of Education, we all wanted to vote for it, and I have to tell you that there are already school institutes. And that, just after two courses we started, in certain places, the will that the students who do not have an institute in that population can stay in that same population making the first and second of ESO. And here too, therefore, again to make the compromise that I have expressed to you about Barberà del Vallès. It is to say, at present, and we have assured them, that the works to Can Planas are planned, that they can continue and that they can also create this institute of two secondary lines in these spaces currently of the school. Dialeg, there is and there will be. It is what the directors of the territorial services are doing in all the mixed planning tables, and what we have to have is the responsibility, all of us, to take the decisions we have to make. I already said on the day of the appearance and I insist today, that what cannot be is that, because of the need to make decisions, this involves a harm in the future. So, we don't tank schools, we're cutting lines there where we don't do it before pre-registration can cause injury. And also two things before they're done. I must assure you that there is no family in Catalonia that, wanting to go to the public, you must go to the concert. That doesn't happen. That is to say, every student who wants to go to the public has a place guaranteed to the public school, among other things because we have too many places in the public system, so we have to say here, in his parliament, that there is no family that wants to go to the public school that can't go there. And finally, focus on the topic of racities. That is to say, the routes to Catalonia are already the right ones and that we commit ourselves that in the centres of maximum complexity, study that can be above. This is also the work of planning and what I have to explain to you – because your parliamentary group is at ease – which, when we did programming, we didn't schedule for a year's time, but that programming is done for years. And that's exactly what we've been allowed to see these secondary increments that we're going to have, but from now on, these increments are going to be decreases because, unfortunately, we're going to get back to the same thing that's happening to us now with primary school, and it's that these students who are now underage, are going to go to secondary school.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.127.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.128.0	Thank you, Madam President. And the rest of us, therefore, are at the disposal of the Member for all these issues, because I know hard that they have remained and that we have not been able to touch. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.129.0	The fifth item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the Barcelona World project, presented by the Popular Group. [[Asking the Government about the BCN World project]] [[300-00008/11]] The word has the Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.130.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Well, "unsustainable project, "will trench the territory, "will leave us without water, "will generate work of little qualification and urban speculation. Someone might think that these statements have been made recently in relation to the BCN World project. So, no; they are statements of a member of the Initiative for Catalonia of the year 1993 referring to Port Aventura – to Port Aventura. Well, twenty years later it pays the price to balance what was Port Adventure and analyze whether the prophets of malfortunacy, in short, the birds of evil omen, which is said in castle, are right or not. We're doing a little rocking. What did Port Adventure mean last year? European and global consolidation of the Costa Daurada brand, hotel referents and in the march of conventions throughout Europe, uninterrupted investments for more than twenty years that have expanded the project and work, very much work, difficult to quantify, all this time, and direct and indirect. I'll just give you a sifra: last year's June, four thousand people worked in Port Aventura. And yes, some high-skilled and many low-skilled, but it is indignant, frankly, the frivolity with which they refer many times to this type of work, because there are many young, thousands, and not so young, who are fan of cambers, mounters of scenes and who do not have any other possibility, that it is this work or the work, and they need it already, they can't talk to them that in the past twenty years a new model of production, etcetera, no. They already need this job and they urgently need it. Unfortunately, not everyone can afford to make contemplative life and play juggles in an okupa couple; there are people who must morning, who must lean and who must strive. And they need this job. Well, year 2012. The year 2012 is presented the BCN World project in society. A project to be completed, together with Port Aventura and Ferrari Land, an absolutely unbeatable – unbeatable – offer, unique to Europe and one of the three or four best in the world. What was the speech of the prophets of malfortunateness? The same thing: "unsustainable project, "will trench the territory, "will leave us without water, "work will be poorly qualified and" is urban speculation. The speech, which did not triumph fortunately in 1993 and which would have brought us to the Paleolithic, seems to be triumphant now. Fem una miqueta de chronologia: 7 de septembre de l'any 2012, Artur Mas, Isidre Fainé and Bañuelos present in society, in a more serious way, the beginning of the parliamentary process of BCN World. A parliamentary process that culminates on April 1, 2014 to the Pretori of Tarragona in solemn act, with the presence of the president of Catalonia, Artur Mas, and the mayors of Salou – Pere Granados, of Democratic Convergence –, Vila-seca – Josep Poblet, also president of the Diputació y Convergence Democrática – and Tarragona – Josep Félix Ballesteros, of the Socialist Group. Gathering of all employers, gathering of the majority unions, UGT, represented, certainly, for the brand new Member of the Republican Left Congress, the Lord Saved; and gathering of the parties that represent 90_percent of the voters in the area. The year 2015 produced the ever well-explained release of Veremont, but the government's position remained clear: "The project – say Mr. Felipe Puig and Mr.Artur Mas – "is more alive than ever, and they repeated it three, four_months long. It was the official speech until the end of the year. At the end of the year, Mr. Rull, at that time coordinator of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, to the newspaper La Xarxa said the following: "Convergence defends the project little by little and on horseback, because it is good for the country. BCN World is more alive than ever. September 23, 2015. February 12, 2016, of enguany, the same Mr. Rull, already advisor, to the Diari Nació Digital, only two_months after: « BCN World is dead, it is a bad project for the country. I'll repeat it again, not because I want to take the colors off Mr. Rull, which I also understand, but because I understand that it's important for people to understand, because it seems unbelievable. Again; 23rd of September 2015: "It's good for the country, BCN World more alive than ever; 12th of enguany fever: "BCN World is dead, it's a bad project for the country. What happened to Mr. Rull in these two months and a half? Who is dispatching ich, what process of personal transformation, what paranormal phenomenon has passed? Well, it's been during Nadal's vacation. There are three possible options, of which the three leaves Mr. Rull in a good place. The first would be that before he was a counselor, he didn't know the project, he had no idea, and that's what he thought about Tarragona is something that lies south of..., that it's not Catalonia and that it doesn't matter mass. I'd like to think this isn't the option, it's not the possibility. The second is that Mr. Rull, on no-tune dates, so, like they're very emotional and now everyone's very excited, you have an epiphany's progress and it's anti-system. It's a chance for me to throw it away. I think the most plausible of all is the third. The third is, quite simply, that he gave in to the CUP's chanting and that now he doesn't know what to do to explain it. And, therefore, I would like to..., thought that Mr. Baiget would come, now I will ask Mr. Junqueras, who has told me that he will be the one who, kindly, will answer me. We know Mr. Rull's position, and I'd like to ask him, Mr. Junqueras, a first question – after a few more – do you think it's good or bad for the country? Because there's been a change of position here in two months. The Government of Catalonia has decided, to gain time – which is actually losing 'l' – to pull 'em out of handcuffs a referendum. A reference that, in short, can be analyzed. He said the Italian politician Sartori, the best specialist in democratic participation, that democratic participation could – direct participation – replace in few cases representative democracy, which, in any case, enriches it. It was only said that substitution was possible when there was a glaring deficiency of legitimacy. To give an example, in the case in question: that the three mayors of the affected municipalities present the project in April and then have a brutal electoral roll. Having this project as the star project, it would be a delegitimization of your project. But this is not the case; the three mayors are still in their place and, moreover, with solid governments, with a clear majority in favour of BCN World. I don't have to look for, as it was before, a new consensus, the consent to Tarragona is already there. Therefore, this reference would be a legal reference, yes, but it is a reference of all unnecessary and, I would say, illegitimate. Therefore, Mr Junqueras, I would like to ask you four questions about this very concrete reference. The first: will it be binding or not? The second: what would be the electoral cos – the cos, I refer to "the electoral cos, not the "cost, the "the electoral cos. Third, what is the circumscription? The municipalities affected, the province or, as you said, the estupefaction of everyone, because of the implications that this has of inconsistency with your speech on the references, to all Catalonia? Could you explain that to us? Fourth, important: do you foresee that your department, or the department of Mr. Rull or the department of Mr. Jané, which is also around here, will resolve any discrepancy you have, parliamentary, with a reference? It would be important to know that. I say, above all, for the companies of Initiative and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that they were pioneers to reject the project and did not make them case. Looks like it's only when the CUP asks for it. These are four concrete questions. And I'd like to finish, Mr. Junqueras, with a prec: they don't do the reference. Miri, the Pla Urbanist director is approved on July 31, 2015. They are pending the resolution of the attachments, with a considerable delay. We're in a hurry. Juny d'encany – Juny d'encany – overcomes the option of buying land, which has caused investors to have already warned that, if the issue is not resolved quickly, they will have no choice but to leave. They told the media. So, and you know it perfectly, and that's why they don't buy time, they're trying to waste it, they know perfectly well that the reference would, in short, be the death certificate of BCN World. Liquidarian, in this way, a project that has had territorial, business, trade union and political consensus in Tarragona. We already have him, the consent, to Tarragona. I don't make the mistake that, fortunately, wasn't made with Port Adventure. There are no prophets of clumsiness. Tarragona wants to be leaders in tourism. We want to be leaders in the European and global spheres. Don't snort the dreams of our province. Thank you. [[The Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.131.0	Why ask me the word, Mr. Rull?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.132.0	Yes, they ask for allusions and contradictions. For allusions, in this case concrete.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.133.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.134.0	No, basically, what I'd ask of you is... there's the idea that "the reality doesn't give you a good headline, and you wanted to compare life and death. I never said Barcelona World was dead. I just said that it didn't exist because it's an operator-related project, and that operator has retired. What I said is the same thing I said to Mrs. Hortênsia Grau today: there's a project, and this is a project that's on the table. So, I don't put myself in my keys things that I didn't say. Follow a little strict, because, if not, all the explanation he has made now will be absolutely lacking in the credibility that requires a good job, for the country and for the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.135.0	Answer it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.136.0	Declarations arising from Nació Digital, 12 of enguany fever, daily people suspected of radical Spanishism, said follow by step. Therefore, review what you said at this time, that the holder of the information is: "BCN World is dead, it is painful for the country. Yes, sir. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I didn't make it up: 12 of fever, he went out to all the media, and also to the Diari de Tarragona. Then we'll look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.137.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President, Mr Oriol Junqueras, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.138.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen and honourable Member, I would like to begin by thanking you for your kind speech, and I hope that if one day you are given the case that at some point you are using a kind tone as you have used, so you have also taken the sport with which the whole chamber is taking it at these times, with a sketch drawn at the top of the Members I have before you. A first acclaim about legitimate issues and electoral victories: you cited the mayors who have won and who obviously have all our respect. I have been mayor until recently and am aware of the importance of the municipal world: the assemblies, the mayors, the governors, etc., also in the same line of respect for the electoral results of everyone. To remind you that the political party to which you referred, Initiative for Catalonia, in one of its versions, with the electoral coalition in which you participated in the last Spanish elections that have just been produced, was the first force to the province of Tarragona, and the second was the Republican Left; and the first to the Europeans, the Republican Left. Therefore, the same legitimacy that supports one another, supports the other and supports all of us, and supports us to what we are in this chamber representing the people of Catalonia. When I made this first acclaim, I wanted to address you, who makes the inquiry directly. You know that, as the CRT project was formulated, as the Barcelona World project was formulated, it failed. At the very least, it failed with the withdrawal of the intermediary – it is an obvious, it withdrew, it is not – and it failed with the incomparency of investors. Of course, investors who then also say: "If no immediate decision is taken, we will leave forever. They left, despite the fact that the decisions were all taken, because all the decisions were taken with the majority support of this chamber with groups that then had the majority in this chamber, then. Therefore, it is obvious that, as formulated, that project does not like. As a matter of fact, neither the intermediary that was there, nor the investors that were supposed to be there, nor the good part of those who were also expressed in this chamber, is pleased with it. I, with which no one is most likely to like– accepting that no one at all likes the intermediary that was there at that time or the investors that were there at that time–, what is there, inside and outside the Government, is the will to review it and reform it. In fact, Junts' electoral program for the Yes, which is the electoral program that supports the government's action, the government's proposals, is a program that already refers to the need for the project to be a reasonable, sustainable and family project. And this is the government's will: to rethink the project, in a consensual way, so, also, obviously, by listening to the contributions that your group can make, which you can make; in particular, also, the contributions that can make those groups that are linked to parliamentary stability, so, in this case, the UPC; but also its; the one to which you previously referred, in this case the Catalonian Group Yes, it is possible, or any other group that would want to be involved. Therefore, you need to rethink it, rethink it from the consensus, and recast it out of what the previous model was, because that model failed. We want, therefore, a project that is the best for the Catalan economy – the best. We want a project that is sustainable, that is responsible, that is linked to the offer that already exists in that territorial area, therefore, to Port Aventura – you refer to it for a moment – and also to the future, for example, to Ferrari Land. A quality tourism project, a project that also, among other things, is compatible with what the Fira de Barcelona represents – you were talking about conventions, etc. Without doubt, the most important area of our country, in this sense, is the Fira de Barcelona, in some cases it is an area that is exceeded, let's say, and that needs space because there are many great events that have developed and it is obvious that the area of Camp de Tarragona has very important infrastructure conditions: the port of Tarragona, the airport of Reus, the railway connections with the capital of the country, etcetera, and, therefore, it is a possible area. And we also want, so – summarizing all this – a project that is not starring in the game, in which the game does not have an absolute protagonist. Is the game compatible with other areas? It is. There is no city in Barcelona, there is no city in Tarragona, there is no city in Lloret, to give an example, but it is clear that none of these tourist brands are known at national or international level precisely for their connection to the game. Therefore, here of options there are, there are many and what it is about is to look for the best possible combination. We want the project to have a coherent dimension and, therefore, as it has evolved over time, it is clear that the proposals are related to how we modify the Urban Master Plan. Let's remember that the year 2012, at the time of the Barcelona World project, which was called "Barcelona World", was planned with six casinos and that all this, that model, that size is precisely the size that didn't work. The operation, the possible project, the CRT, this project that we want to follow the best is a project that obviously has to count on the opinion and the paper and with the intervention of the private investors that follow, not those that say they will be there and then they are not, as happened before, but those that follow from the truth. But it is also obvious that public criteria have to be made, because they are public criteria that must be established which is the available space, they are public criteria because they affect the good that they are scarce, resources that are scarce, for example, the territory, such as water – you mention in fact the beginning of their intervention – energy, etc. And, therefore, scarce resources have high opportunity costs. And, therefore, it is necessary to make the best decision not to put at risk the future development of that space, of the CRT itself and of the conjunction of its surroundings. Therefore, it is obvious that this has to be done from the urban plan resizing, for sure. Among other things, also because the resizing of the urban project, what it entails is that the costs of the investment are more sustainable and, therefore, makes it more viable that the investment is concrete. Therefore, the investment for which there is a possible candidate, with the costs that this candidate has to bear, must be scaled up, which is obvious that they do not meet the costs of the previous project. Therefore, the urban plan must also be adapted. The road structures that allow access must also be adapted, and it must be done in a reasonable way, because what we cannot do is take the risk, as has happened in other great touristic projects, which are then abandoned. Because that's not just a cost to the investor, that it's obvious that he would get away with it, but it's also a cost to the whole company, because he leaves a scar in the territory that neither you nor I– I'm sure– so we'd rather not have to bear. Therefore, we adjust the project to the reality of the investors there. With regard to the tax issue, which is another central issue: you know that in this chamber there was an intense debate, linked to the previous project, about whether or not to lower taxation from 55_per_cent to 10_per_cent. In any case, that downside, which was done to guarantee an investment, clearly did not guarantee it, I insist, the intermediary disappeared and the investors did not compare. Therefore, any reflection linked to taxation must also be linked to the relationship between which there are the global gains of that taxation linked to which is the global investment. And anyway, here we are before an inversion that in the best of cases, it is to say, in the case that it is the greatest possible will be much lower than it was. And, therefore, the tax issue must be reconsidered: either with the reduction of the tax or with compensatory tax measures. We will be very attentive to the contributions that you yourself can make on this issue. And a final reflection – because time is running very fast – on urbanistic volumes and on the dimensions of casinos. The current project, as predicted, speaks of sixty_ thousand_metres_squares for the game. I'd like to remember and share with you the whole chamber that the casino that Hard Rock has in Las Vegas has three_ thousand_metres_squares, twenty times less; and that the Venetian Resort, of Las Vegas also, in you sometimes less, and that the Caesars Palace, of Las Vegas, one of the great– great, great– has fifteen_ thousand_metres_squares– by all means, has closed. So, listen, the size has to be adjusted and it has to be realistic. It has to be realistic and experience teaching us that the previous model was not realistic and, therefore, as we want to do well, we have to do it out of the previous project. And finally, even though we're going to have a twist later, I'd like to end up as we started, so let's just say, huh? We want a project of quality, made from consensus, that makes our economy grow, that it is responsible, that it is sustainable, that it is family...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.139.0	Vice President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.140.0	...that does not put future investments in that area at risk. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.141.0	The word has the Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.142.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, Mr. Junqueras, I also appreciate you being kind, nice... well, in fact, I'd just miss you, wouldn't I? With the things they're doing, they're still not nice and nice afterwards, but fine. In any case, look, just..., you were nice but disappointing with the content, you were only right in a sentence, when you said that time is running, it's running very fast. You said it for your intervention, that it would put red on this... Run a lot of haste for Port Aventura, for Ferrari Land, for Barcelona World and for the whole Costa Daurada, and you are losing it. What did you do in your reply? Run away from study. He answered nothing, no matter what specific questions I put to him, he did not speak absolutely of the reference and he did not say absolutely king. He said vaguetats, for example, a menu of letters to the King: that the project must have a coherent dimension, that it must be compatible with the offers of the round, that it must be sustainable and realistic. Home, I'd just miss it. Well, what do you want me to say? Everyone knows that, but let's get a little bit more concrete. If you say that the previous was not, what did Mr.Artur Mas do to the Pretori of Tarragona on April 1, 2014 presenting the project to change the festivity of the Costa Daurada forever? What, now that this happened on April 1, 2014 doesn't Mr. Rull defend this inquiry and send it to you? I'm telling you why Democratic Convergence defended the project. What's going on here? What are they doing with Tarragona's future? You spoke of legitimacy: man, you will agree with me that in some municipal elections, in the minds of the voter, a project with BCN World is more decided when a municipal vote than when general Spanish political votes or when European political votes – will coincide with me. But it's that I wasn't just talking about legitimacy derived from political parties, I did it to the chambers, I did it to the employers, I did it to the unions, to all the venous entities, who signed a manifesto. The consent of more than 90_per_cent of the social teixit throughout the Tarragona area. Isn't that legit? You missed it, because you know exactly what they're doing. In short, I have the feeling that this is not new to us, to Tarragona – it is that the first ones – and with this I finish – damaged from the pact with the CUP are all Catalans, but the first « kick there where the skeleton loses its noble name is the Tarragonans, with this new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.143.0	The vice president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.144.0	Now, I hope you take a seat, let's say, so as not to surprise 'lper la reguarda' – I say this in reference to the expression that you used on the end of the scale. Listen to me, your intervention has now ended nice but it hasn't started as nice from my point of view, huh? – and allow'mask reflection. It has started in a more aggravate way, surely they want to make you see that you were very offended before an obvious, which is quite difficult to justify. You criticize some of the parties that voted in favour of the previous and oblivious project that you did not vote against. And that project, in any case, proved that it didn't work, because the intermediaries would withdraw and the investors wouldn't show up, despite the fact that, supposedly, everything had been done because they were very happy. So, listen, you and your party also have to have some responsibility for your vote, for the decision they took around that project, and that project doesn't work. I remind you that your party, for example, was the supporter of a project that was supposed to be a giant, outside Madrid, with a Eurovegas where neither the investor nor anyone else was presented, despite the fact that he was presented with drums and silverware. So, listen, his party, which is a specialist in selling smoke and, often, causing hard problems to the citizenry, is certainly not the best way to teach things to stop doing good. And what we're telling you is that we are the most advocates, precisely, of the economic development of the country's conjunction and, therefore, also of the Camp de Tarragona, would just be missing. And precisely because we are the most advocates of its economic development, what we want to ensure is that there is a project that is sustainable and that does not end with the withdrawal of investors; a project that is sustainable over time, that generates wealth on an ongoing basis, that does not jeopardize the activities that already exist, that is compatible with existing activities, that helps to de-stabilize tourism, that ends with a model in which your party has also had huge responsibilities from the Mediterranean coast, a tourism based on cold beds that do not generate, in other words, a model or a model that is empty, that does not help to generate wealth on the Mediterranean coast, that is, a model or a model, that is, that is, a model or a model, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, a model or a model or a model, that does not help to generate wealth on the Mediterranean coast, that is compatible with the activities that already exist, that is, that is, that the model or has a model of a model or a model, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, and that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that it does not, that it does not, that it does not, in the model model model, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that it does not, that it does not, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that, that, that is, that, that, is, not, that, that, that, that, that, not, is, is, that, not, not, is, not, is, is that, not, not, that the project, is that, that, that the project, is, that, that, that the project, that the project, is that the project, is that the project, that the project, is, that, that the project, that is, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that the project, is that the project, is that the project, is that is that is that is that is that the project, is that is that the project, is that is that the project, is that the project, that So, I know it's hard for you to get upset when we tell him that what we're doing is making sure he's doing right, contrary to what he did in the past, that he didn't end up doing right, and that you also had some responsibility not voting against him and facilitating his approval. You contributed – you or your political formation – to designing ad hoc conditions, special conditions dedicated to a proposal, and, escorted, investors withdrew from them. This is why it is not the fault of the people of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, nor of Initiative the year 92– that you have begun your intervention in this regard–, neither the people of the CUP, nor much less the vast majority of the citizens of Tarragona, who deserve serious proposals, sustainable proposals, reasonable proposals and, therefore, proposals absolutely extended from which their political party has represented a race – a race – from the Mediterranean coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.145.0	The sixth item on the agenda is the question on water concessions presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government on water concessions]] [[300-00011/11]] She exposes the inquiry to Mrs. Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.146.0	President, councillors, deputies..., well, change of legislature, change of president, of councillors, but the same subject that you have already inherited from your predecessors, that you now inherit and that we hope, this time, does not pass to the following ones. That's right, we have a new chapter, a new chapter in the chronicle of the chapuza of the Aguas Ter Llobregat concession. The reason for the interpellation I think is clear: the list of misconceptions continues to grow, every day we wake up with one more irregularity, and we ask for explanations now; not for us: for all citizens. We need to be explained at once how that award was, what was done right, what was done wrong, and now, as a novelty, also what happens to those invoices for which the Anti-Fraud Office itself does not find justification; what they knew about them, how it happened, how we can be assured that it will not happen again... It has already been said endless times, but since there are some new Members I review some of the main milestones. It began in August 2012 with the announcement of the tender. In November, in the middle of the electoral campaign, the award took place. In December, the award was already under investigation, but still before the end of the year the contract was signed and the first payments began to be received. Only a few days later the result of the investigation, which was already known to be in progress, was received the administrative decision that was expected from the administrative agency of contractual resources of Catalonia. The result: the successful tenderer was excluded from the process, nothing less. And then everything gets worse. But nothing was done. At that time he was advisor to Territori i Sostenibilitat, Mr. Lluís Recoder, when this operation was promoted, and to Economy, Mr. Andreu Mas-Colell. It's been raining a lot ever since. You just repeated it as an answer to one of the questions, almost proud to have that justification; you said the circumstances were dramatic, and you missed the FLA, by the way, when in fact this argument means that Mr. Recoder and Mr. Mas, when they promoted this bid, had no other justification, neither of effectiveness, nor of improvement of service, nor of improvement of management, nor anything that would benefit citizens. If in the end there was, I don't know, it was certainly a casual thing, because he didn't think about them. Moreover, this operation, as it had that specific justification, also had very specific deadlines, and there was very little time left. So unfortunately the operation became a good example that rushes are not usually good counselors. Bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. ATLL, which was described as the crown jewel, was missold, with the only justification to quickly cover a hole that had been generated by the disastrous management of a government that thus made clear its priorities. And since then the months have passed without any good news. The High Court of Justice of Catalonia and the Supreme Court repeatedly rejected the precautionary measures that the Government of the Generalitat and the successful tenderer had requested to maintain the concession, pending a final judgement on the merits. But, despite having those sentences that did not allow it, no decision was made. He's running forward. A thousand irregularities detected, but no clear explanation. Between sentence and sentence – all of which were negative – we arrived until last July, in which Mr. Mas-Colell appeared for the last time, a appearance that was also to be attended by Mr. Santi Vila, but was excused for reasons of agenda. Now we're going to try and get you a chance to come back together. Shortly before the Councillor's appearance, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia had now ruled on the merits of the matter in a judgment which included, inter alia, the following sentence: "The entire award process is null and void, because the principles of publicity, competition and equality were violated. Not bad. But, well, that day, Mr. Mas-Colell already told us that he was kicking the ball forward again and that he would resort to the sentence and continue to do nothing. New stage of the same loop that serves as an excuse for not giving explanations, not taking responsibility for the problem and not making any decisions. How can it be that after three years since the first resolution, that of the OAC, and half a dozen unfavorable sentences, we remain unclear with what scenarios we can find ourselves with, without that analysis? That's all we ask. How can a government make the right decision? How can you make the decision that least harms citizens? Counselor, inherit a tremendous mess. We ask you not to follow the wake of your predecessors, not to let another day pass without analyzing what risks you are running, what risks we are running all Catalans. But this analysis, which we already imagine you are doing, we also ask you not to last forever. That there will be no impact as long as the concession is maintained, Mr. Mas-Colell told us in July. Ah, all right, as long as it stays. And if we finally have to reverse the, then what? Will you find the next one? No, ladies and gentlemen, the judgment of the High Court of Justice does not set a good precedent, it is a judgment that is already at the heart of the matter. Obviously it is not firm, we know it, but we do not think it is too much to ask that, in the face of a judgment which is already at the heart of the matter, even if it is not firm, you explain what it can cost the citizens of Catalonia their actions if this judgment is confirmed. Because they brought us a figure, but the figure they brought us was neither clear nor complete. I think it's the least that a government that has committed an act that seems irregular at the moment – at least that says the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, we will see what the Supreme says – should do, and should do it here, in parliamentary office. And I'm worried not only that it's explained; what I'm really worried about is that because you don't do anything today, citizens have to assume tomorrow a cost that you don't deserve and that maybe you could have avoided. And I am also concerned that the finances of the Generalitat, already fragile enough, have to bear burdens that can become worse than those that led it precisely to initiate this whole process. The least you can do is give explanations, and then, if necessary, take responsibility. Well, we now have a new item on the table, and it's a report from the Anti-Fraud Office saying that the dealership has been issuing invoices to subsidiary companies for services that don't seem to be justified. Is that so? He assumed that the ACA detected these invoices – that's what he said – and that he sent them to..., to whom? To the tax agency? [[Pause.]] Okay. But what he's told us is that those bills weren't authorized. Apart from authorization, what did those invoices imply? Did these services come about? Don't you? What are they going to do so that something like this doesn't happen again? How will it affect citizens' pockets? We would also be grateful if you would now, in your speech, shed light, as much as you can, on this issue. Because the questions, in the end, remain the same, the same questions we have asked on other occasions, now adding this new element. And the fundamental question we ask you is: in this situation, can you explain to the Catalans what risk we are taking? How much are we playing in that court decision? Because the risk is now twofold: if the award is to be cancelled, the cost can be enormous; but if it is not cancelled, what? What do we do with those bills that are coming up right now? Mr Puigdemont has also told us as an answer to some of the questions, precisely what we are telling you now: that no decision can be made without knowing the different scenarios. Well, man, that's what we need, to know the different scenarios, and that's what we ask. And I guess it takes time, but it's been thirty-six months; how many more do we need? It would also be fine – already asked by my colleagues on some other occasion – to explain further whether they are going to assume any political responsibility, if any. But that's probably a lot to ask for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.147.0	Counselor Josep Rull responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.148.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen... you have made a global approach to this issue, and I also thank you that you have not only entered specifically into this report of the Anti-Fraud Office, but also that you have wanted to make a general approach to the situation as a whole. I had a long time before to explain in what terms that concession was produced and why that decision had to be made. And I'd like to take advantage of this inquiry to get a little deeper into it, because it seems to me that there are a lot of Members who come into this legislature, and on the part of the Government, at the time of making decisions, it's worth having, let's say, a very clear, very precise radiograph of what happened at that time and, above all, knowing why decisions are taken. A first idea is, in conceptual terms, to suggest that whoever maintained the public title of the service continues to feel the Generality of Catalonia, continues to feel the Catalan Agency of Water, and, therefore, who maintained his right with the citizenry to provide a good service, a good basic service, continues to feel the Generality of Catalonia. Water is a public good, and that's why I need to protect it, and I need to protect it. This is the first compromise the Government of Catalonia has, which is to preserve this public good and guarantee its access to the city council. Situation that as of the year 2011-2012..., when that decision was made, the Government of Catalonia was exceptionally indebted and had many difficulties in accessing the financial markets – many difficulties, due to its own indebtedness and the limitations that arise from the same General Administration of the State. The risk premium was very high, the generality's credit rating was extraordinarily low and, it is true, this instrument that was the FLA, which is a mechanism that only obliges you to be able to access the FLA by renouncing other mechanisms around other financial markets, did not exist. And, therefore, the problem was that decisions were to be made because the role of the public deficit tax was what it was. And here we had to be able to obtain liquidity to deal with certain obligations – before I spoke of the names of the workers of that month of disembarkation; I spoke of this – and also of certain elements linked to social services. Either it's retail or it gets these resources, because the money wasn't there, we didn't have liquidity, we didn't have more debt capacity, we didn't have access to the finance markets. And, for another band, around Aigues Ter Llobregat, there were three elements, three steps that I would like to share with you. First– one has already explained –: a debt of EUR 700_million, the result of the works of the same– they'remember, of those episodes of the same– and of other acts of girls without a well structured debt. This was a first step that there was. One_second, which was the crisis situation of the year 2011-2012, the closed credit to which I have made reference and the restricted solvency of the Generality, which made Aigues Ter Llobregat unable to return the demands of poorly structured claims in the short term. That was the second pass. And the third, a very important point, and not less, and that at the time of speaking water we have to keep very present: the ATLL had a medium fee for selling water very much below the actual cost of operation of the service, and this is no less. It will be easier to hear it with figures: while the average price of the tariff then stood at 0.37_EUR per cubic metre, the operating cost price was 0.67_EUR/ cubic metre, i.e. half. This was simply unsustainable. I remember these three steps that I gave him: a high debt, a poorly-planned architecture, and a canon that was simply unsustainable and contradicting the Water Framework Directive, in the sense that it did not incorporate any incentives either to the administrations or to the citizenry to bet for a sustainable use of water and..., the bet for the water policy. This is the sense of the decision that is taken, and that is taken at this time. If there was no competition for these elements, would the Government of Catalonia then have this decision? No, I'm telling you no. You spoke of ATLL as one of the most sensitive fish in the administration. In the question that we substantiated to the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot is an ugly reference also to Tabasa, to Tunnels of Barcelona ; we also had to set up a concession in this very sense. Is she going to be vulgar? Is that what you wanted? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And it's from here when this grant is made. And, it's true, she wasn't absent from a litigation, and from a legal litigation. And you explained: "Who are the scenes? So, we're convinced that things were done properly, and that's why they went presenting all the resources. Fixed 'in relation to the resolution of the OARCC, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, let us say, in no case, that the OARCC had laid down. Plant nullity for other reasons, not strictly those which had been laid on the table and those which had been laid down, and, therefore, it is not one consequence of the other, but that we are speaking in substantially different terms, and therefore: what do we maintain? Coherence. And you were incorporating an element, and an element that is funamental; to say: we have to age for the interests of the Administration, that in the past are the interests of the citizens; and we cannot make a decision that can have a cost that is high or that is difficult to sustain for the conjunction of the citizenry. Meanwhile, I do want to place it – with a lot of clarity – is that this concession has not had an impact on the quality of the service or the cost of the service paid by the citizens. And, therefore, these are two elements that have been preserved – they have been preserved – long from all this tortuous, judicial process, u; and, independently, from this complaint made by the Anti-Fraud Office. In both cases, neither the quality of the service nor the fare paid by the citizens was affected. Therefore, this is an element of guarantee and basic guarantee. Therefore, with regard to the issue of the merits, of how this concession was made, we want to defend the performance of the Administration of the Generality in all the judicial lives that we can; first element. According to the item – and you 'lplanted' me –: "What happened when this concession was already made effective? That we've detected and believed that there's been an abnormal concession function; that's what you said. And third, therefore, politically here there is an agreement, a serious approach – political, of natural politics – to be able to recover some day the direct concession of this service, but we have to do it in terms that are sustainable for the same Generalitat of Catalonia. I insist: are you painful for yourself this indirect management? No, no, Would we rather make a direct management of it? Well, this is a development that seems to arouse a certain majority in this Parliament, but we need to look at how we make decisions to do it without rushing us and to do it in a way that is sustainable. About the denunciation of the Anti-Fraud Office: simply, what I want to convey is the same thing I did with the oral questions this morning. At a time when the Catalan Agency of Water knows that there is a relationship between the dealership and an operating company that had not been authorized by the Catalan Agency of Water, it has become very clear and very strong, and it has automatically ended this way. It's true, given the paradox: the dealership asks us for permission to work with the operator and, meanwhile, we believe they're already working with the operator. That doesn't make any sense. And, therefore, at the time when the economic audit of the operator's accounts is done, this decision is made. It is detected that there has been a relationship, it is quantified what relationship there has been and acts accordingly. What? Asking the concessionaire, in this case ATLL, why it stops that situation and makes a step back in all the elements, and it also communicates to the tax agency, and it is also responsible to the Anti-Fraud Office. And to a very good extent, the Antifrau Office makes this new writing fruit of the pocket – if I may say so – diligently that it has made the Generality of Catalonia in this sense. But we won't be shaking our wrists, we won't be shaking our hands at the time of securing the general interest, and guaranteeing the common good. And when things don't work out, they're as strong as you need, as citizenship requires us, as law requires us. So, I wanted to get a first look at how it went, from which is the prediction of this government's capture of all the scenes – and then we'll talk more about it – and I tried to respond concretely to this action of the Anti-Fraud Office. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.149.0	There's the word "Ms. Navy Bravo."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.150.0	Well, about how it was we've been repeating something that I don't like to hear anything and that I hear constantly, and I'm very sorry, that a decision was made that can affect all Catalans for fifty years, to resolve a point situation. Regardless of whether or not it was the best solution of efficiency, management, service for those fifty years. The motive was already the wrong one. And, about how we are now, look, Mr. Rull, this goes a little bit along the lines of what I was saying this morning: when you think everything would be better if you managed it, you should fix it in cases like this. You think it's done well, and the truth is I wish, because it would cost us all less, surely. But what we do not stop asking, what we are asking you – and it seems you do not listen to it – is that if you are going to wait for the Supreme's sentence to analyze, at that moment, whether it would have been better if we had done something now, at this moment, or not. Because when that time comes, when the Supreme's sentence comes, they won't be able to travel back to the past and decide that perhaps, if they had analyzed it, there would have been another better option. That is what we are asking you, let us analyse the situation and see and analyse the risks of each of the two possibilities. Because there's a chance the Supreme won't give them reason. Nor has he said much new about this, about the situation we are in. But, well, since I had left some questions unanswered, some old, I do not lose the hope that in the next intervention I can say something new. If the Supreme Court confirms the judgment, what risk are we taking? How much do compensation costs? And this is not the same question as before, because Mr Mas-Colell already gave us a figure in his day: 300 and peak millions of euros that were, therefore, what had already been put, the works, the return. However, there appears to be a written compensation undertaking, a letter that has already been taught here on some occasion, which states that, even if the decision were for a court ruling, the compensation would be the same as the one that would be granted if the decision had been unilateral. In other words, we have committed ourselves to the successful tenderer that, even if it is a judge who says that the award must be annulled, that the contract must be terminated, we will pay him compensation as if we had settled the contract because we wanted to. That overcompensation above what had been provided for in the first documents amounts to what? Because that's not what we've been told. What impact would it have on the Generalitat deficit? Because if you have committed yourself with a company to pay them an overcompensation, to give them an extra guarantee to which the law requires – although you have sometimes defended that they are normal guarantees –..., if you have dared to do this, you should also dare to tell the Catalans how much we risk with that overcompensation. Because we assume that before signing a document like that, they would have done their calculations; we do not believe that the Government of the Generalitat, however heavy it does, has not quantified the risks to which it was subjecting to the public coffers. This was one of the questions that has been asked more than once and remains unanswered. The second question – which Mr Mas-Colell did not answer in his day – is what happened with the property transfer tax. The 40_million that by contract is supposed to have entered the concessionaire and that, therefore, we also assume that we will be at risk of losing if the judgment of the Supreme Court does not think, like you, that everything has been done correctly. It may seem little with the numbers being handled, but 40_million is not little. None of this was included in the figures that Mas-Colell gave us, in those 300_millions. On the figure of the canon – now perhaps you can answer me –..., he says they were very low and they were unsustainable, but he already raised them before the operation, isn't it? The one you gave me was the one you gave me before you raised them. Mr. Mas-Colell, about all these things I ask you: about the compensation, about these 40_million, told us something like that it wasn't your book. Will it be yours, Mr. Rull? Can you tell us anything about this? Is it part of the risk? Should it be returned if the Supreme Court confirms the judgment of the High Court of Justice? Well, if you can answer any of these questions, I'll be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.151.0	There's a word from Councilman Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.152.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable counselors, honourable Members; honourable Member, with the intervention you have made... – you have all the right to ask all these questions – but it would also be interesting to know – we will have the opportunity to do so on our own occasions – what is your position, in the sense that you believe that the Government of Catalonia should have filed a cassation appeal before the Supreme Court or not, or should have accepted the terms of the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia. Because you're doing all these things, but it would also be interesting to see what your specific position is. If you believe – and we are not very convinced – that things have been done well and that it has been a proper concession process and that it has been done with public competition, and this is a very important element, then we want to be coherent, from this perspective, because we are convinced that things have been done reasonably well, and that is what President Puigdemont has proposed in the intervention he also made, before, in the first hour of the morning, that in the measure under our hearing we must use all the mechanisms to defend these interests of the Generality of Catalonia. I repeat to insist that this does not have any impact on the quality of the service, nor on the tariffs, let us say, pay the citizens. And this concession at that particular moment allowed us to make some investments that, for their own sake, the Government of Catalonia could not have done. And, therefore, there were several elements: first, a very complicated financing structure around ATLL and the Catalan Agency of Water, and this is no less; one_second is the immediate financing needs of the Government of Catalonia at its time, and, third, the need to make concrete investments in the high supply which, with a strictly public provision, we could not have planted, could not have faced, and could not have done without the quality of the service. That's the basics. And, therefore, I wanted to reflect on it and I wanted to translate it is that it is not a single factor. He said: "Listen, you acted impromptuly... No; I tried to suggest that there were various elements, various factors. And now what we have to look at is, in the face of the future, how we act. If we act around this resolution or this action of the Anti-Fraud Office on this concrete issue. We are now still in terms of response. But let's open up, we've opened up an information dispatcher to see what concrete impact it has had, and if the reasons given by the Anti-Fraud Office are reason enough to make certain decisions. So this is a new element in this scene. And we have to look at it, obviously, because we have no other limitation than general interest. And that's what we wanted to move with all roundness. Another option is to set aside the reversal, not the result of judicial decisions or that of the Antifrau Office, but as a political decision; this would be perfectly legitimate, as a political decision. If most of the chamber feels that there has to be a change in the management system, then obviously this should be carried out. But we have to assess what it costs. And with that I do take the glove from being able to make a scene of all the elements and all the costs. Because here we have thought and talked about what the emerging damage is, but the part of the cease-fire, let's say, is of an extraordinary level of uncertainty. And you know it, and you know it perfectly. It's either within a court ruling or it's from a political decision. And, therefore, here we have to be..., this is an element that in defining the scenes it will cost us a lot to finish determining, a lot, because here there is different doctrine, there are different jurisprudences on which concrete impact these predictions of cease-fire have. And this is a piece that we, at these times, can't define with all precision, can't define it, can't we? And, therefore, we'll have to work around this. And then there's the question. I again insist that at these times..., also explain to the citizenry that the control mechanisms available to the Generalitat de Catalunya, the Catalan Agency of Water, are working. And that's what you believe. When something is done that is not regular, it is done and reversed. If the Government of Catalonia has not acted diligently and these instruments have not worked well, today the Anti-Fraud Office would express itself with different terms and this operator would continue to operate. It doesn't work; it stopped because these control mechanisms of the Generality worked properly. Thank you, Madam President, honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.153.0	The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.154.0	It's part of the session. [[Asking the Government about the prerogatives of some policies]] [[300-00010/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the prerogatives of some policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The presentation, the inquiry, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.155.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members..., well, welcome, first, Mr. Counsellor, to the new government. This Member was already a Member in the previous parliamentary term and knows that we believe that the time has come for a new policy. You are a government that wants to opt for major reforms, you are supposed to be a government, too, that has to have a reforming idea of society, apart from your goals that you confess as priorities, but you are composed of two forces, by Convergence i Unito and by Esquerra Republicana, which often say that in Spain things work very badly. And it is true that we agree that many things work very badly, and that is why we want to change them and that is why we want a new way of doing politics, a way of doing politics that seeks the confidence of the citizens that we have all progressively lost along the way. And we believe that this happens because from the government and institutions it is shown that the message of citizenship has been captured, that citizenship warns many times that our politicians do not represent us sufficiently and that our politicians, many times, are protected by privileges and prerogatives that these days no longer make sense. That is why I want to ask you in this inquiry on various issues and to know that you, in the inquiry, tell us whether or not you agree that these reforms should be undertaken in Catalonia now and without waiting any longer. The first of these would be the suppression of strangulations. We believe that drilling, as it is designed today, is a privilege for some. Look, this news is: "The PP shields Rita Barberá: he places her in the Senate Chamber and will continue to hang if there are new elections. This is another: "Irene Rigau : I will keep my seat, the three accused by 9-N we benefit from drilling. The latter: "The PSOE promoted the magistrate who will now investigate his victims in the ERE case. A counselor, Mr Vallejo..., Mr Vallejo voted for the judge to judge him, voted for him to be a member of the High Court of Justice of Andalusia. It is obvious that when there are politicians who seek the preservation of the sufferings, it is because it is beneficial to them, and in an environment in which we are full of corruption, many times... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not everyone is out of corruption, obviously the ones I've named. Don't get nervous, Mrs. Rigau, no... but this is the way it is, you wanted to benefit from the strangulations, Mrs. Rigau, and you declared it that way. I just said this. We are talking about whether or not the outbursts are a benefit and a prerogative of politicians. I think I do, and I refer to the facts. For different reasons, in which I do not enter, but we talk about strangulations. We'd like to suppress the strangulations. There are members of the Government..., in the Statute of Catalonia the outbursts affect all parliamentarians – they affect us – and also the members of the Government. We want to know your opinion: Are you in favour of abolishing this privilege already, yes or no? Secondly, we could amend the law to prevent parliaments from intervening in the appointment of judges to the higher courts of justice. What makes squatting rather than being a defense against the intrusions of other powers, a privilege, is the obvious fact that Members name those they could once judge. We must put an end to this mode, which is not the responsibility of this Parliament. But we, from Citizens, have already presented initiatives in other autonomies to suppress the outbursts that affect other autonomies. We will also push it forward in Congress and we would like to see MEPs in Catalonia also commit themselves to promoting this reform in the Congress of Deputies. We therefore believe that we must also promote this reform of the way in which judges are appointed to the higher courts of justice. I am already telling you that if we see reluctance and delay on your part to join this reform cart of the new policy, I will say to you – I am already telling you –: And do you agree that, in the meantime and until we commit these reforms, those accused of corruption remain out of public office, yes or no? We would like to promote an agreement of all political parties whereby those accused of corruption cannot continue to hold public office. And look, I refer here, and he left in this Parliament this very morning: "The Generalitat justifies that the defendant Rosell remains in Infrastructures. How much. A gentleman who is named to the finger by the politicians and who is involved in the maximum case of corruption, which is that of 3_per_cent for the public work. "It seems to us that it is ugly, it has been said here. "It's not aesthetic, it's unesthetic. Well, then, we promote among all the changes necessary to end this. Third thing, and there are many, but I believe that – for you to see where the inquiry is going – we have and want to eliminate the privileges of the cap de l'oposició. Do we agree on that? Do we agree, Mr. Counsellor, to push for this elimination of privileges? We, as is known, could have opted for these privileges and renounced them. We renounced the bonus that assumed this position of cap de l'oposició, we renounced the advisers who might have corresponded to us and we also renounced the protocol privileges that this position had. Therefore, if we have renounced – and here we continue to make a hard opposition, because we continue to lead the opposition, because we renounce the privileges, but not the honor of leading the opposition – why not make everyone agree, in the Catalan Parliament, that we teach all citizens that this additional expenditure that this public office can entail, we can save it and the taxpayer does not have to acquit with the payment of this office, which is designed but which can be dispensed with these prebendas. Another thing we could and should place limitations on is the appointment of finger-toed positions – the appointment of finger-toed positions. Another news that affects his Government: "Puigdemont expands the pharaonic structures of the Catalan Government. The government increases by 8_per_cent the number of senior positions in this legislature. We're not going to do demagogy – we're not going to do demagogy. You have to make work equipment, you have to set up equipment, you have to be able to work, but you also have to be careful. We cannot have, as we have in Catalonia, the government with the most structures, companies, foundations, of Spain, which costs the most money, why do we have to do this? Look, and there's another thing, this increase, which is the 8_per_cent increase, has also been given because we have a new council, which is the External Afers Council, which you yourself have explained to journalists that, as you need the necessary infrastructures to internationalize the process... Well now I ask you: listen, I hope we will save ourselves the money of all these infrastructures that you were going to pay and that you were going to create and that you were already naming people. I..., we take the opportunity, if you can answer me, although the object itself is not the subject of your negotiation, but it will agree that we will need to regulate things a little bit so that these appointments that occur as soon as a government arrives, and that in Catalonia they are far superior to the rest of the other autonomous communities, it will agree with me that if the Constitutional Court has now told them "you do not need so much infrastructure, because there will be some positions of these that were already or appointed or pending to be named, that they will no longer be able to name and that we will be able to reduce the infrastructure of the Generalitat, at least to that extent. But, in any case, what we will have to take among all, I believe, to demonstrate to the citizenry that we are concerned not with fattening political positions, but with making competent management for the citizens, we will have to come to some kind of agreement so that this is so and we can carry it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.156.0	Counsel for Justice, Mr. Carles Mundó, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.157.0	Madam President, honourable Member, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to debut in this rostrum, in this Faristol, on such an important subject as, in short, the need for good governance and transparency. And, in this sense, you do a series of considerations that I have to say I can't share, some of them do. For example, I can share the need to build trust in relation to the combination of people who are dedicated at some point in their lives to public tasks. And that trust is a trust that we can only get by winning it. And surely we will achieve it more if, when we intervene in public, we put emphasis on, too, the things that are good, and put emphasis on the noble part of politics and do not, in a systematic way, contribute to confusing politics with corruption. Because you, when I intervene, make a follow-up of considerations that always bring it to the same conclusion, and it is that – and especially in those that are devoted to politics in Catalonia – they always end up sketched out for corruption, and I must emphasize that this is plainly lied to. There may be examples that can fight the whole conflict – and I'm sure we all agree – but there's no need to skit it in a generic way and without introducing it in the morning, and while we're talking about regenerating politics, we're talking about dignified politics, but every time we talk about politics, we associate it with corruption. Therefore, I believe that this is a question that we should internalize all the folds, and point out, with all the strength, without in the morning, those that do have practices that are not acceptable and, at the same time, contribute, in the same speeches, to underlining the noble part of politics, which fortunately is there. He was talking to me about outlaws like privileges, and it's true that when the outlaw is used with some ends that are not for which laws, in his day, the foreboding, is certainly a privilege. But it's also true that, in certain circumstances, it's not always and not in a general way – in certain circumstances – more than a privilege is a guarantee. I agree that it is not acceptable for you to misuse the image of the flower. In fact, in the Spanish State, it seems to me excessive and exaggerated that there are two thousand people out there. And in this I am sure that you and I agree, and we agree; and, in fact, the group of the majority of this chamber that supports the Government, which is Together for the Yes, in the same electoral program has collected it, and says, explicitly and literally, that they agree to review and limit the number of places and the figure of places. So I think it's an injustice to say that in a systematic way the flower is a privilege because on some occasions it's a guarantee. And an example of what I said before you wipe things out in the morning is, for example, when in the same sentence I included Mrs. Rita Barbera and Ex-Adviser Rigau. I believe that this is a deep injustice because it puts in the same bag someone who is designated for alleged corruption crimes with someone who is designated for helping to make a process in Catalonia. And, therefore, I believe that these are the questions that are not all going to be at the time of defending a position. In order to ensure the full exercise of the proper functions of the public authorities, it is for this reason that on his day of responsibility he considered that he had felt the figure of the outlaw; neither for everything nor to take over the commission of a crime, nor to conceal, nor to cause anyone to escape from justice, because another of the equivocals that is often given is that he assimilates or equips the figure of the outlaw with the figure of immunity. The exception does not give immunity right; the exception is to give guarantees, not privileges, to those people– you yourselves, the representatives of the people of Catalonia who are present in Parliament are an example, or the members of the Government are another example – to give guarantees because they can exercise their role and are not subject to complaints, sometimes without purpose, that this does not mean that the person who commits an unlawful act must not be persecuted and judged, it must be the same as any city, and that is more than clear. Therefore, we are not before a privilege, but we are before a guarantee when a correct use is made. We agree that the figure of the flower has felt that it is limits – that it is limits – in the name of people who are out of the way, and not only that it is limits in the name of people but also that it is bound in those aspects that derive from the activity of the public channel. Of course, the outcrop should not have to learn any questions that affect the personal circumstances of someone or in crimes that clearly do not correspond with the exercise of public authority as may be, for example, those that are linked to corruption. When I say that they are unjust, sometimes, when they liken it to a privilege, there is little to see, for example, that those who are outlawed and that, whether they want it or not, they end up being tried by a higher court, whether it be the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, in reality, of privileges, sometimes, because what happens when they are tried in this context is that they do not actually have a certain instance to call if the resolution of that court does not please them, which they do have the rest of the city, which they have more than one instance. And in right comparison, the figure of the flower is not a certain extended figure. The Spanish State is a figure that, as we say, is overly present with two thousand people who have this condition, but it is not a rare figure either. In perfectly homologated democratic states, we pose the case of the United States, nor can the President of the United States be judged by any court the first time they file a complaint with him. There are also some guarantees that what they do is that they can carry out their duties with a certain strength. You have given me a follow-up of very concrete considerations, which I do not want to take away the answer from you. I wonder, for example, whether we agree that accused persons are involved in public affairs. I must say that no, we do not agree and, therefore, what will be warm every time that this circumstance is given is to invite those people who are affected by a case in which there is a good reason..., because there is no way to make the complaint because many times the complaints do not have recourse, but when there is a good reason, these people are desirable to cease to occupy their public office or their public office in the field that follows. It is also clear that we cannot share the assertion that you are brutish, let's say, the independence of the judges of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia when you say – as if, let's say, you are touched by something that is enjoined – that you have been chosen for this Parliament. First, that the statement is lied – I do not admit matí, it is lied – because the magistrates of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia listen to them and elect them the General Council of the Judiciary, and only this Parliament in two of its members has the opportunity to propose a suit, but in the end elect magistrate those that the General Council of the Judiciary has interest in naming. And so, what I have to say to you is that this government is absolutely compromised with transparency, with the dignity of politics; and you referred to the end of the intervention to the bonds that you recognize in the decision of the Constitutional Court to suspend the competitions in the field of outside the department created for the government of Catalonia. I have to tell you that this department, in the band of essential external action functions that it has to develop to give support to the economic, cultural and social field of Catalonia, also does other essential functions that for them also justify the department, and you know that this department, apart from external action, is also competent in matters of transparency and good governance. And only from this point of view and in what you claim, does it have the whole sense of the world that this department does not only exist, but that it has the means to do its job well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.158.0	There's a word from Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.159.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, well, you have started your intervention by agreeing that we have to do what is necessary for citizens to have confidence in the political class, and it seems that we were starting well, more or less, because you say that in Junts pel Yes you do have in your program to commit the review and limitation of the number of strikes. What's not very clear to me is when. When is it going well for them? When is the time? When there is no more danger of anything? Or when? Is this a statement of principles? I am questioning him and I am proposing to him, and so it will be our motion, that we already address that issue. So, let's see if you in the replica can specify it a little bit better. You have also said that drilling is a guarantee. And it could be born as a guarantee, it could be so, but it becomes a privilege from the moment that the judges are the ones voted for by the same ones that will be judged, and this is not to blur the image of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, but its reply obliges me to remind you that recently one of the persons responsible for the Transparency Office of the Generalitat, for it has been ceased and will be reinstated in its position as magistrate in the High Court of Justice, a position that it has already exercised and, by the way, archiving the matter of a person of the Convergence i Unió party, archiving a matter of the Adigsa scandal and such, that it has been archived – well archived would be – then appointed by politicians for transparency, then it is terminated by those same politicians in the Transparency Office and then returned to its office in the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. It's ugly – it's ugly. That's it and that's it. It doesn't inspire trust. This lady, personally, I do not know her and I deeply respect all her professional activity, but she is ugly in the face of the citizenry. And these things can't happen, and these things are the things that we have to apply to reform. When you speak... I would also like to specify: we talk about accusations for politicians in cases of political corruption. When there are cases of political corruption, they should not continue in their posts. If you agree, for I have already quoted you a person who, for the moment, is being kept in your office. This is what citizens expect of us. That we build the necessary structures, but these structures, truly administrative – do not need to be state, eh? – they can be autonomous structures which serve what citizens want, which is a neutral administration and which serves the interests of all and which is not a "untransparent location" for friends, relatives and party partners and various politicians. That's what people want in their homes. And finally, to tell you that you have focused your intervention on the topic of drilling, that you have tried to wash or clean a good name of a High Court of Justice that for me has not been questioned, the system of appointment of judges is very much questioned, but you have not told me anything about whether we are willing to eliminate the privileges of cap de l'oposició, you have not told me anything about whether we are willing to agree on some kind of system to eliminate the prerogatives that some public offices have to name other people, violating the truly legal and just way of accessing public office on merit and capacity principles, and not to finger. If we can do something to prevent the ranks of those who are named by finger and who have in Catalonia, I repeat, of the maximum number of appointments of this type of positions continue to be enlarged. And finally, he has not told me anything – and I finish already – about the office of the former president, the abolition of the office of the former president of the Generalitat, and the incompatibility of public offices, which will be another issue that we can raise when the time comes for the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.160.0	There's the word "Justice Counselor."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.161.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member, finally, I do not want to take refuge – I said before – in answer to the questions you have asked me and, therefore, I take advantage of this second to clarify what has remained to be clarified. When will this government, you say, take action – what do you say we agree – when will we do it? So, look, I have to say, this is a question that, basically, I support the Parliament of Catalonia in this case and, therefore, this is a question that the Government will be on the side of most of which the Parliament of Catalonia agrees. Therefore, you, as a chamber group, will take the initiations, as will the rest of the groups that believe in this sense and, therefore, the rhythm will be the rhythm that determines the Parliament. I mean, to end the doubts, and then I'll make a couple of more considerations. You assume that the head of the opposition has renounced all the privileges that you say are inherent in your condition. Finally, we have not discovered anything, the previous head of the opposition, Mr Oriol Junqueras, the current vice-president, also gave up what you say in privileges, so sometimes it makes sense that in this country until you carry the sun does not come out, but, well, that each one will already make the value you consider. He insists on the name of charges, and he brings us, well, a diary detail, which I don't doubt the journalistic rigor, but sometimes it's better to ask things, to see the whole set of information and, therefore, to be able to draw accurate conclusions. It may be that in some departments there is some general direction that there was not, but surely in that department there is also some secretary that there was not and therefore you have to make a valuation in the joint. And the considerations I wanted to make, a first: it's true – and that we could say it's empirical – as more democratic is a state, as more democratic tradition has a state, less out there. And in the Spanish State, there were two thousand out there. We've got a way to go. The other consideration that I would make of it: you have told me about many things, but surely you have forgotten to overtook the last outburst that on the part of the Spanish Parliament was included in the legal order, which is the outburst of the emeritus king. I didn't hear about this either here or at the Congress of Deputies. Pasting..., because that's why, in a law of administrative measures it was incorporated, when the king abdicated, not only the immunity of what he already enjoys like the head of the State but that it was glued with retroactive effects – which is not a small thing – his condition of abhorrence, surely, in this case yes, thinking it was a privilege, not a guarantee. Anyway, I'd appreciate it if when we talk about this, we'll talk about everything. In conclusion, I must reiterate this government's unequivocal commitment to transparency, to exemplaryness. And, therefore, all that helps to dignify the policy of sureness that we will have courage and obligation, too, to push it forward in these terms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.162.0	The eighth point... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.163.0	In contradiction, Madam President. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.164.0	Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Only the word is given, in this case, I say, to the government. I can feel it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That to the government, yes; the secretary told me that to the government, yes. [[Question to the Government on historical memory, symbolology and the Faixist nomenclature to public space]] [[300-00012/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is the inquiry into the historical memory, the symbolology and the Faixist nomenclature to the public space, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Creed Constituent. Exhibits the inquiry Ms. Mireia Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.165.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. Councilman, hundreds of wagons are still in the ranks of the leader and of other political and military figures of the Franco dictatorship. In Catalonia, he still has forty people who are not in one of our careers, drunk as shameful as Mr. Eduardo Aunós, Minister of Justice between the years forty-three and forty-five, in the middle of the dictatorship. It's political parties now far right, heirs deth Francoism his league, still, and contemplating public ralliings at fascism. In auti, comma nosati, sonque can say « free Otegi, free them all. From all this they make him unconstitutional; from a hotel, they dream he unconstitutional what is in Parliament's notice. And he's got a Democratic greeting from the Spanish state. On the way to the capital city of Catalonia and Aran, neisher malauts. I'll be talking, so, so, so, as a memory, I'll be talking to you right now. By host, in Catalonia, it was Article 54 of the Statute reference to right-wing alert now memory. It says that he seeks old for his knowledge and maintains as a heritage he has collected witness to the resistance and struggle on the right and is democratic freedoms, despite a rejection of totalitarianism and recognition of all people who have suffered persecution in the face of his personal, ideological or conscious options. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It was first and foremost that, with the presence of Francos in public space, before you persisted in a sociological Francoism in many sectors of this society, before it was an ideology that represented Francoism and was now a memory of the State. We believe that Francoism, unlike such fascism or Nazism, does not continue to be defeated militarily, and, from a hotel, it continues to be defeated institutions. It was Transition that did not follow the breakup of the fascist dictatorship, so that it was a State apparatus, it was Administration, it was armed, it was a judiciary, it was a police force that passed unharmed by democracy without being cleansed of all crimes against humanity, all were tortures and all were extrajudicial executions that were perpetuated. It is pacts of this Transition to establish a silence its was the magnitude of this fascist repression. When he was poor, after seventy years he began to disappear, it is the families who want to know where they are buried that they are pair-sensers, that they are uncles, that they are Germans, that they are friars. And it's unfortunate that you're the same physicists of this French dictatorship that you've disappeared, imagining the collection of a lot of people from today's country and that you're not a people, and you're still seeing a sharp outburst of what it means to be exiled. Arrebrembam, tanben, was Law 13/2007, of creation deth Democratic Memorial, that public institution that it has to serve to carry burdening policies of memory in everything to recover, commemorate and promote was democratic memory in Catalonia in period 1931 to 1980. They were very clear, but he didn't trust her, or he didn't heal her. Debús deth 2011 and has pointed to this total inaction, despite a policy that hides itself from the sinks that are being given to this institution. It has abandoned itself, eth hilarious of memory spaces, that it has generated many synergies from the land, and eth memory has passed to be a bureau of cultural management, and little cause; there is no defined competences and no longer a referent and no initiative nor leadership. Enquiries about memorialist entities and they're historians of the country, they're scientific, they're against them now; and that's what my communications have publicly manifested. It was a question and if you think he's good cause, August Govèrn, his eth Memoriau Democratic..., because he must be able to speak. First of all, to talk about appariation, to talk about your story that we explained the year is winners, to talk about those who aren't, who don't know where they are. Sonque in Catalonia and in the month of 4,700 families looking for the disparishudi family, disparishudi in the month of seventy years old, was a Franco dictatorship. Let's look for them, identify them, now they're common cabotage, return to the dignity of our murdered dead. They want to talk about vertat tanben, justice. And we would fly, tanben, it was immediate annulment of the lawsuits of the Councils of War deth Francoism, as eth deth president of this Republican Generality Lluís Companies. And we want to talk about the fact that he was a civil society; he talks about it because he's worried and he gives me a powerful movement that has materialized even though it was the appearance of many entities that work for historical memory recovery, and that when he has an ingenious job, as this is the Commission of this Dignity, he was the Association for Historical Memory Recovery, he was the Friend of Mauthausen, he was the Association of Ex-Present, eth DNA bank, other people of character mostly local or local, or all are local assemblies of this CUP, which, together together, require that they are no longer, he is also fascists of our chariots. And for example, many examples to follow, such as in Navàs, which have been installed are stolpersteine plums in hoisting to all those deporting Nazi concentration camps. Auem, tanben, was a law of historical memory stateau, it was law 52/2007, that under article 15.1 established that "public administrations, in the exercise of their powers, will take the appropriate measures for the withdrawal of shields, signs, plaques and other commemorative objects or mentions of exaltation, personal or collective, of military uprising, of the Civil War and of repression of the dictatorship. In this way, we think that shameful, that it is now obvious to the political leaders that they have fallen in debt was the elimination of the Francos. And apart from the fact that they are opposed to this, of course, so much so that they are passive in their foolish governments that they are ashamed of them, as if they were said to be of this kind. A few years ago eth Memoriau Democrático commissioned a hundred of the Francos from all of Catalonia, which he has not yet finished. It's the result of a supply inventory tip that's scandalous. And to 3,647 fascist elements in a country that is supposed to be the values of democracy, freedom and respect. Eth the withdrawal protocol that you have to hold the institution, eth Democratic Memorial, then finished it. We're talking about it being created in 2007 and that we're in 2016; that's inaction for the obvious. They are symbols and recognitions of people who have contributed to that dictatorship, have incited air, now discrimination, have murdered, have executed without pre-trial judgment. Requiem, then, was withdrawn from the fascist symbols of the august dictatorship that, hanging forty years, we oppressed like Catalans and tanben like workers. We want to change eth egemonic relation and to give to knowher are real dimensions of this Franco repression. And it was a question and he finds Govèrn thinking he's a good cause then that's still possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.166.0	In order to answer the word has the advisor Raül Romeva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.167.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. and Mr. Councillors, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and all, and a special greeting to the Aryans so that they would follow us there. It is especially important that this late, especially today, we can talk about the need to recover history for justice, but also to be able to build a society that learns from the past and, above all, thinks about the future with a willingness to work in those values that must characterize it. And, therefore, from this point of view I believe that it is necessary to start with some of the reflections that the honourable Member shares with us and that, from the point of view of this Councillor and this Government, we are absolutely ours. I say, in a very uncertain way, that here we have an prevailing need that is to change the report, the current report or the report of the winners, the report that has been distorted in a very clear and very worrying way that has been this story. And it's exactly the will of this department. Catalonia, and it has been a long time since various institutions and organizations are working in an absolutely tireless way, has a long history of fighting for freedom, defending their institutions, for dignity. And that's not the case, that's from the Second Republic, and especially important are the moments that in certain contexts characterized and starred all those who claimed, precisely, these values. General Franco's dictatorship simply assumed, as it was wrong to recall, an unacceptable violation of freedom, in the broadest sense of this term. And the repression that he assumed at the political, cultural, social, linguistic and national level, in all spheres, is precisely what surrounds us today to manifest and reverse. It is, therefore, this preservation of historical memory – I absolutely share the diagnosis that has just been made – which we are close to doing as a country, as a society, as a generation, precisely to put into value this expression of its freedom. It is not only an act of justice; it is also a responsibility for future generations, I repeat, to put into value everything that has to do with concepts that are so fundamental and absolutely necessary to preserve as freedom and democracy are. To appeal, therefore, to the past is the way, the best way, certainly the only, to understand the present but above all to face the future. And this is, for me, one of the aspects that we need to sort out as a full route unquestionable by this government. Certainly, it has also been said, and I share it: we have a historical problem. From the point of view of the Transition, taking into account more than it was done – and this seems to me to be important to remember – from a reform process initiated in an institutional legality that came from the dictatorship, we have a debt; we have a debt as a society and we have a debt, I repeat, as a generation. But we have an obligation, and as the government believes that in this sense we must be absolutely clear: one of the hardest deficits of the Transition was the institutionalization of the membership. And this is something that we must not lose sight of precisely the importance of the moment and the facts that the Member has expressed. It is true that we have a statute which, clearly and in a very clear way, in its article 54, is old because the historical memory is converted into a permanent symbol of dignity, tolerance, revival to totalitarianism, of the recognition and rehabilitation of all the people who at the time were persecuted because of their personal, ideological or conscious choices. It is true that this text, this status, has a normal development: Law 13/2007, of the Democratic Memorial, and Law 10/2009, on the location and identification of the disappeared persons during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship and the dignity of the common pits. And it is true, too, that there is a law – a Spanish law, a state law in any case – of historical memory, adopted in 2007, which establishes a series of measures in favour of fighting against this situation and of pursuing, in any case, some of the situations that have occurred. It is also true that this law was approved at the time and meant a certain advent, but I share it – and this is a very personal reflection – that it is a law that many people would have liked to have liked that much more years ago and that certainly has some important gaps that it is important not to lose sight of. It does not fit, nor does it obviate – and we do not do it and we will not do it – an obvious fact, circumstantial if you want, but absolutely relevant to understand what is happening, and it is the existence of a government of a marked and conservative accent that, precisely, if there are difficulties in the deployment of this law, when there is zero political will this is still much more pale. It is true, too, that in Catalonia we have a series of tools and a series of skills to be able to do concrete things; some have already done, and this government's will is to follow it by working and, "if they find out – I think with a great vocation – push them further and expand them." There are two that seem especially significant to me: one, which is the update and the best of the web of the map of pits, this is one aspect; and two – the honourable Member has also mentioned it – the protocol that provides a technical_mark for identification by means of DNA, the famous DNA banks. This is not a minor issue. This is a technically complex issue, we know, but it is a fundamental issue, precisely, in order to be able to do everything we have set ourselves. There are many other measures and other initiatives that we need to put into value and recognize: the acts of commemoration linked to the international day in memory of the victims of the holocaust or the tributes to the dead and disappeared soldiers to the battle of the Ebro, for example, or the need for a cross-cutting action, a coordinated action, a team action that allows to face the policies of recovery of memory, of peace and of human rights, enhancing, precisely, the intercanvial and, above all, the joint work of institutions such as the Memorial Museum of the Exile, the Mume; the Memorial Consortium of the Spaces of the Battle of the Ebro, the Comebe; the Democratic Memorial, which has already been mentioned, or the same Institute of the Catholic International for the Pau; rather, of the political, of the political, of the political. All this can only be done if we want to be effective, if we want to be effective, from a working_framework with those actors, with those actors, with those brands that have competence and, obviously, this affects all administrations, from the state sphere to the local sphere, obviously passing through the Government of the Generality and the parliaments. In a very specific way, yes, I would like to place emphasis on some facts that, if – if well – they are certainly not yet the totality of the photograph we want to do, they say a lot of what there is and, therefore, show in a very worrying way what badly can be done. Some references have been made and simply from a specific point of view, when it comes to the cents of Francoist symbolism. A job has been done, I think extraordinarily effective that has given us very dramatic results, I think, spectacular: 185 municipalities that have listed certain Franco symbols or 3,647 symbols between twelve registered typologies. They're significant ciphers, they're important ciphers. To catalogue all this, I repeat, is not only necessary, it is essential, it is fundamental, I repeat, in order to be able to build that mark, that space, that reality appropriate to history and not distorted, as you have determined us have wanted to lay down the last few years. And many things can be done, many things are being done, but many more can be done. And simply to give one last example: some of the decisions taken by, for example, the Barcelona Assembly – and I am saying this to outline an institution that has been characterized by a great deal in order to be able to deal with this issue with a responsibility, I think, rather remarkable – show that it can be done a lot whenever there is a complaint and that, therefore, it is necessary to make manifest: a minimum of political will, a minimum of conscience, a minimum of historical responsibility, a minimum of recognition that we have, as I said before and again, a debt, a historical debt, a political debt, a social debt, a generational debt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.168.0	There's the word Mrs. Mireia Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.169.0	This is an institutionalization speech that has been dismembered. I've been proposing to you to... we're going to have a calendar before we break down with it was institutionalization now unpunished. Why was it a question ei: when will the country be able to take the 1,717 run in Camp dera Bóta? When... (applause), it is vesins and vesies of El Masnou, that when year to endure a car that eats eth bombardment deth 26 degér deth 39, what followeth eth mes sagnant en tout eth Maresme? Why in Lheida year to bear no number of strikers like Requesens friars, or was it from a Franco dance like Ramon Areny, who kept three concentration camps and who were arrested where 558 people were still executed, 148 of whom were without judgment? This democratic anomaly was hypercinic attitude deth Mr. Angel Ros. In nine I went on to say that if I had the victims of the fascist bombardment of the School High School, in Lheida, and did not have to keep cars with French noms in the city, you would have to go against their withdrawal and justify placing them in spite of saying that they were good people, and at that time madeish time, to have a public education in the Fatherland of Lheida at the Lord Victor Hellin, who already know that I am a tanben character of doubt... well, finally... Enquire when in Ripoll one has to a barri damb eth nom de Fuensanta, you generate striker the orders of the dictator Franco, what enter in Barcelona? Enchia quan es vesins e vesies de Vilassar de Mar, de Mataró, de Manlleu, de Granollers, d'Alpicat, de Tàrrega, de Barcelona, per non hèr was a long list of towns and cities of today's country that year to covet with its fascist nomenclature and symbolology in public space? Is it true that when there are inhabitants who live here, it was a dictatorship to display fascist plaques, with toys and arrows that don't identify us? It is one of the almost-Greek, eth deth memorial to this battle of the Hebrew, said in base« To the Caudillo and to the twenty-five years of peace: what peace? Inaugurated for Franco in 66, which is found in my..., in the pillar of the ancient post this day Belt of Tortosa, in my deth riu Ebre. I would say that if... "the laugh is life, the laugh is memory, tanben. And it's most shocking of all that in Tortosa and Convergence, ee eth Govern municipality in minority with a pact of governance from the Republican Esquire, eth that it does not withdraw this work, that Enautís was a Franco victory in the battle of the Jew, and that it breaks down eth sometimes of so many Catalans. They didn't want to be removed immediately, but they wanted to consult. What are you talking about? What's the decision? We're here to confound what you've got right now memory was citizen participation. If you can remove, if you can muse, do you have memory spaces in your current type of cause? In any case, I who had to submit ath debate citizen did not he was removed otherwise he how I explained it was history, how the museum was of besonh. You think we don't ask for rent that doesn't follow that democratic obviousness, in five other countries of Europa. You know, Mr. Romeva, if you're persecuting this invention of fascism and Nazism. Eth problem, dilhéu, e que be Estado Espanho and force public charges from here and beyond, tanben, it seems that we do not consider fascism now the Franco dictatorship. As a guest, you think we're just a country in my country where we have an aut nom ath fascism, don't you? Eth fascism began to be ours and Francoism, but he likes men suffering that it is fascism. Eth Parliament of Catalonia, please, that does not follow the accomplice of all this, that eth Govern does not follow the accomplice of all this, that it is joints governed by one party acting from a cop for all and returning it was memory to old and old. That's enough of a republic with values of democracy, respect, memory. You said: "It is anti-fascism to be one of the values constituted of the ship's alert that we want to found. It was a memory of those who preceded us in their struggles, Tanben, and did not have to be. And now, let me just say that, aside from two sentences that you think are significant pros. Milan Kundera said that it was a struggle against power and that it was a struggle against memory and debrembe. And Montserrat Roig said that if he had an act of love, he was a memory. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.170.0	The word has the advisor Raül Romeva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.171.0	Yes; thank you very much, honourable Member. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, That is to say, I think it is absolutely necessary – and precisely it is a sign of the will at least of this government – to put these anomalies into evidence. Because in the background are anomalies that can be solved. It is not a question, so to speak, impossible; it simply claims to want to do so. And, therefore, with this will I present myself before you in this early department, but with the clear will, as I explained when I presented the clear lines of this department, a few days ago to the relevant committee, which was to be – and it will be, I have no doubt – one of the lines that will mark the action of this government and this period that we are looking at. It's true that we have a lot of work to do, it has to be recognized. It is true, too, that much remains to be done; much to many levels. It is true that, from the point of view of the state law, this corresponds to all administrations. It's true, too, that everyone can and must do their job. And from this perspective, I think we have to be absolutely proactive here, as well as the government, and you were expanding it, as Parliament and as assemblies. It's voluntary. We therefore need three elements. One: create it. It's not a minor issue. Be aware of it and believe it. And that's the fundamental principle for starting to act. Two: equip us with the tools that... some of us already have, but others, at these times we still need to finish implementing. And three: it seems to me that collaboration is also especially important. To work with those entities, those organizations, that people who have been working for a long time from many fields to do justice; not because of the privileges of any type, but simply because of such a obvious thing, it would be as necessary but as far-reaching as it is to do justice. And to end, let me only make my own words, let me make my own requests and share them – and let me amplify it – this will to make it clear and manifest the total and absolute revulsion of this department and of this government to everything that means war, fascism and oblivion. They are elements that, as little as anyone has a minimum of consciousness, can understand that they have an enormous significance in rapes, in plurality. And I'm not talking only about physical violence, but also about what we could call "historical violence: the violence that involves making a voice disappear, making a symbolism disappear, making an ideology disappear, making people disappear with everything they meant. You were talking about the need to combat dismemberment... in any case, forgive me, raising the institutionalization of impunity. So, let's expand it: I was talking about the institutionalization of dismemberment, let's extend it to the struggle against the institutionalization of dismemberment and impunity. And before that, I repeat, he will always find us. And that's why, ultimately, the tools we have will be used to the end and those we don't have, but we can get those who have them to apply them, too. Many thanks, force thanks and adishatz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.172.0	The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the concerted schools presented by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the concerted schools]] [[302-00001/11]] To expose her, has the word María José García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.173.0	Thank you, President. First I would like to greet the members of the Union of Pairs, the members of the platform Que no et déconcertin and families and teachers who accompany us. Ladies and gentlemen, Councillors, says in Article 26 of the Declaration of Human Rights: "Everyone has the right to education, which must be free of charge. He goes on to say: "Parents will have the preferential right to choose the type of education to be given to their children. And we can also read in the European Parliament's Declaration of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, Article 14 : "Everyone has the right to education, "education will be free and finally" will ensure the right of parents to have this education carried out according to their convictions. Literal. In short, we are talking about rights and freedoms: to receive education, to impart it in a framework of freedom and, also, to the right of parents to choose the model they prefer for their children. They are ideas that oppose the totalitarian concept of education as a tool of social engineering at the service of a state that decides by parents what is the unique model of education valid for their children. They are ideas that advocate rather for defending the plurality of society and for respecting each family as the nucleus where its members develop, so parents choose the educational model for their children. All this, logically, within the framework of the basic standards of coexistence laid down in the law. This is also the model of double freedom that we defend from the People's Party. On the one hand, freedom of education, autonomy of the centre, a single but plural network in terms of models and titles, and on the other, a guarantee from parents that they can choose between various educational models the one that best suits their convictions. Freedom of education and freedom of choice, which must be guaranteed by the Administration on the basis of quality and free of charge. Because if freedom of choice is subordinated to the income level of families, we cannot talk about freedom. And it is that the way that there is no elitist teaching reserved only for those who can pay for it is that these centers, if they wish, can offer free places – or practically – through the concert model. With the concerts, the Administration helps families to have access to a greater number of educational centres and models, centres and models that could also, in many cases, not exist without an economic concert that allows them to offer their pedagogical project at a zero cost or at least affordable enough. Concerts therefore promote plurality and diversity in the educational system, promote freedom of education and promote the real possibility for parents to choose according to their convictions, exactly as the Declaration of Human Rights and the Declaration of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the European Parliament call for. But all this does not imply, at all, that public education is not bet, on the contrary, because for the same reasons as guaranteeing freedom of education, guaranteeing the plurality and diversity of our society and ensuring that parents are able to choose according to their convictions, it is essential to encourage and invest in quality public education with sufficient resources, decent facilities and motivated teachers. For parents to choose and quality to be assured outside ownership. This model of plurality and freedom is the one we defend, it is the one that collects the LEC and the one that we want to shield by presenting this motion, which at its first point advocates for the freedom of education, for offering to all Catalans a quality education, according to the values of each family and the legal principles governing our coexistence; this is the limit to the freedoms of education and the freedom of choice: respect for our norms of coexistence. In the second point, the aim is to maintain the stability, validity and sufficiency in terms of supply and also, economically, of the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya; this means maintaining the current mixed network, without harming or favouring any centre for ideological or political issues. This means guaranteeing these centres a stability framework according to their demand, with the aim of ensuring the sufficiency and quality of the system as a whole. The third point of the motion makes explicit the obligation to hold concerts for those private educational establishments that request it and that comply with the legal conditions and the established regulations, because we do not want any educational project to be favored or damaged for an ideological or political reason, but that is so, provided that the centres meet the requirements. And at the last point, the budget line is required for concerts to be guaranteed in 2016, because without this everything we put forward in the motion would be like a toast to the sun. Thank you, President; advisers, and ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.174.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.175.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... Mrs García Cuevas, I was surprised by some of the statements that you made in the inquiry and that you have also made today, knowing the rigour of the letter – even though it is not – that you usually make use of, and the defense sealed from the Spanish Constitution that was there every time you spoke to us. And he surprised me because he was sharing rights where the Constitution only gives freedom. And that served him, and it served him today, to make a defense clinging to the concerted school, as if here we had had governments who had worked against the interests of his lobby, when we understand from my group, the standard deployment and political initiatives that have been made of educational laws in Catalonia have been, precisely, defending some of the concerns that this lobby has historically claimed. It is to say, that, contrary to what you think and say, we believe that the school lobby in Catalonia has always had, in the political representatives of this country, someone to go to cry the penalties and feel listened and comforted. Interestingly, when it comes to the same pattern, public schools have certainly not always had so much luck and, at least, they do not have the same perception. Therefore, and I see your motion, I will allow myself, without being used as a precedent, to remind you of Article 27 of the Spanish Constitution, which speaks, in its point 1, that everyone has right to education and recognizes the freedom of teaching: great difference. Great difference because a right situated within a constitution in the package of phonental rights generates obligations to the administrations, which must guarantee it, while a freedom, simply, allows citizens to exercise it, but does not generate a counter-performance, but only a guarantee. On the other hand, the counter-performance of the right to education explains point 4 of the same article 27 of the Constitution, when it says that basic education is compulsory and free. Therefore, the State and the Generality as well as the administration with exclusive competences in this area are obliged to offer a free place to anyone who is interested in basic teachings, but are not obliged to offer the school place that parents or mothers can decide. That's right, they have the freedom to choose what they want for their children and their daughters. Great difference, I say it again, because it is the State that plans the school offer through a general programming of the lessons, as Article 27.5 says, and not the parents who condition it. And it is the educational organic laws that deploy this right, that regulate it in a concrete way. I want to refer to one of the few laws that are kept from its origin with very few modifications such as the LODE, the Law of the Right to Education, which is from the year 85, and which precisely regulates the rules of concerts. It means it's a law that has to be very consensual because we haven't changed it yet. You know that when you change it, when the PSOE enters... I hope that, well, I hope that the LOE removes it when you do not govern Spain, I hope that it will be soon too. Only two articles. Article 51.1: "The system of concerts established in this title implies, on the part of the holders, the obligation to freely impart the lessons of these subjects, does not always pass, and you know it; 51.3: "In the concerted centres, extracurricular activities, as well as their quotas, cannot form part of the school schedule of the centre, as you know, nor does it pass frequently; Article 52.3: "All confessional practice has a voluntary character, this only passes in accounts of occasions. There's more, huh? There are a few; I will not read them, for example, those who define how to lose a concert if they do not cover educational needs as the Administration plans to plan and schedule. For this reason, I have allowed myself to present some elements to your text that I believe fit better – without being used as a precedent – to the Spanish Constitution and to the Organic Law of the Right to Education, than to the point that you do to the young person, who are more quickly expressing his political desires – not to say that I have also taken advantage of it to put a small part of my wishes on these issues. So, at the first point, I said that education is a right to guarantee, according to Article 27, making it easier for all Catalans to access a public and free place. In the two, I have added that it is ensured that all publicly supported centres guarantee the right to education in free, equal access, treatment of curricula, non-discrimination, non-segregation, immediately withdrawing the educational concert from those concerted centres that do not ensure these principles. In point three, I also made him keep only the polite concerts in this case that I just explained to him. And in point four – and with this I finish – I have added that I guarantee a public, secular, quality and free education to all the school population of Catalonia. In summary, and to conclude, I sincerely believe that what needs special attention and an economic dedication specific to our country is not precisely the concerted teaching, but precisely the public teaching, which is the only network that can guarantee equal opportunities for all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.176.0	Next, has the word Ms. Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.177.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, they will advise, well, I believe or Ciutadans believe that talking about a youth about concerted schools is talking about education, too, right? We in this we are persistent and we would like to have a national pact for education that lasts a generation and not a legislature – and less here, that the legislatures are either express or lately, perhaps, careless – that this national pact for education was fruit, from the different political forces and the educational community. Perhaps it is true that when the LEC, the Catalonian Education Law, was approved, there was a support of the political forces, which is not there now, and that neither, therefore, did it have the support of a part of the educational community. In the same way that LOMCE to the State has held the gathering of the People's Party, however, in change, it has not counted with other political forces, nor with a part – or with a good part – of the educational community. Despite this, from Ciutadans, we do agree to preserve the Education Service of Catalonia, which is a mixed model, including public ownership centres and private ownership centres supported with funds or public resources. Similarly, we subscribe to the freedoms and guiding principles that are set out in the Catalonia Education Law, such as freedom of education, freedom to create centres or freedom of choice; this freedom of choice that families have, which also has Catalan society, such as, for example, being able to choose cooperative models, huh? , it serves, and it currently serves to give answers to other ways of hearing society and, probably, also, models to which the Administration cannot arrive or has not arrived. Special education centers, like El Carrilet, so, set an example of these different, different ways, right? , to hear education, and that they are already part of the educational culture in Catalonia and that we believe we must preserve. Now, to guarantee this free choice must be... or to pretend, then, that all families can choose on the same terms, right? ; this free choice cannot be a free choice for some families and for others not. From Ciutadans, we believe that all infants come from where they come and who the family is... have the same opportunities here in Catalonia. Precisely, for that, respect..., no? , and that's why, too, we made papers to the motion presented by the People's Party. We don't think it's about keeping the concerts, do we? , to the educational centres, but only to age because these centres, which have public foundations, which have public resources, comply with the criteria established for accessing these centres and make use of the rules provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.178.0	Next, has the word Ms. Anna Simó, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.179.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Counsellor, Vice President, Members and Deputies..., Mrs García Cuevas, after everything we have been talking about and trying to negotiate this morning, I must say that I do not understand the object of the motion, I continue without hearing the object of the motion, and I look at it. I've read the question of the principle until the end, when it starts at "because it is the parents who are responsible for the education of their children and it is the children who are the holders of the right to a quality education and to access on an equal basis, and it is the parents who are the guardians of the children, it is not the Administration". And this, reading this, and reading the first point of the four of the motion: of course, the families trien, not the Administration. And here, Mr. Vidal refers to what is the constitutional right that Article 27 of the Constitution gives to the couple and what gives to the Administration. And then it sounded to me: "Families – in parentheses: and the courts –" sort out the language of schooling of their children, not the Administration. Because that's it– that's it–, not the Administration, and it would add: not the Catalan Administration. Because yes, the Administration of the State, and so on and so on, can say: "And now, you, because of the assumptions of the Generality, will pay six thousand euros to those families that want to go there... Clearly, that's it! His point 1 is that. And how many times – how many times – did the same constitutional case law say that the interpretation of Article 27 of the Spanish Constitution – grabbing it for the skins, so – is it not in this case and that it is not the families that fill and center, but the Administration that orders it? So first of all, I don't understand where you're going. But I'll tell you more: I don't understand where the rest of the three points go. Well, the last thing is, he puts money on assumptions that aren't approved yet, and that we need to talk about all the folds, these assumptions. Hey, Vice President, what...? [[Pause.]] Hey. The second and the third points. Ah! , both in the inquiry and in the second and third points, make a constant reference to the LEC. I'm great. And to the State. In wonder still more – still more. You, who voted against the LEC, who appealed the LEC to the Constitutional Court and who promoted the LOMCE, who violates the distribution of competences of the LEC and the Statute, such as the organization of the teaching or the language in which it is divided. Therefore, I do not understand, I do not understand, the object of the motion. As the councillor pointed out in her appearance in committee and pointing out our group was compromised, our compromise, our finding point will always be the LEC, this legislature, to maintain and deploy the LEC, while we work to make a system..., to debate, to agree on a new education system and a new law that is not under state law, that is, with all this process they constitute. With all the debate you can convince. Here, this is our camp. And, therefore, you tell us in your motion that we complement the LEC that you did not vote and that we did; you tell us that we preserve the Education Service of Catalonia that you did not vote and that the department completed the same department's regulations for formalizing and maintaining educational concerts. But what kind of a man is this? You do what you're already doing. A motion that says we must complete the LEC, and, when I tried to deal with you during this morning with fragments of the LEC referring to the guiding principles of the education system, to the transmission and consolidation of values related to a democratic society, to universality and fairness as a guarantee of equality of opportunity, to the freedom of teaching, of setting up centres, of choosing between public centres or centres other than those created, all that says the LEC, the Education Service of Catalonia as a model of public interest and the general principles of gratuity, compulsory teachings, of access of students to conditions of equality, of co-education, that you do not receive any kind of funding. I say to him, our thought is very clear; he said to me, "Not to mention the wig. All right. But our statement says: "The Parliament urges the Government to maintain and deploy the LEC while it does not have a law of education in Catalonia that incorporates all the educational skills that now correspond to the State, prioritizing support to centres, students, families that I need most to ensure equal opportunities, equity and inclusiveness. For which reference is made to private centres supported with public foundations, concretely, it has to, or, for the application throughout the Education Service of Catalonia of the guiding principles of the education system– Article 2 and Title IV, and in particular, articles referring to these general principles–, and, two, to govern, for which it does for the financing of the education system, for the gifted title and, in concrete terms, Article 205 of Chapter II, which is which, in turn, sets out what is the financing of the support of private centres. You, that, I didn't accept. Definitely: I don't understand what you're looking for with this young man, I don't understand what this young man did. The Government is completing the LEC. And, therefore, we cannot support this which you ask of us, because we do not understand, really, what is the object of this young man. And we're still not hearing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.180.0	Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.181.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you will advise, well, I take the word to position myself on the motion presented to the People's Party on the concerted schools. The truth is that I am surprised that in a context where the public school and its teacher bear great burdens and sacrifices and the centres have to face higher rates, complex groups, more students, more professional than they do more hours and more in need of attention to diversity, and, therefore, still with great problems pending solution and better, to a large extent also as a consequence of the detail inflicted both on Convergence and Union, on their government, as well as on the People's Party, isn't it? I am surprised that now the PP appears with this defense of the sufficiency of the current educational concerts. Well, perhaps we are not so surprised by the precedent of the Wert Law, that we hope to be able to repeal the hand of the joint educational community and the majority of parliamentary groups at the Congress in a future government of progress. For the PSC, the main priority is the defence of the public school, a public and quality school, well endowed with resources, especially at a time of great difficulties and we see that there have been very important setbacks in the quality of this public education and in its own prestige. This is the first one we want to get back. We defended, because this is how the LEC establishes it, and we feel proud of it, the concept of public education service. And we're talking about public education because we don't like to talk about double-tracking, despite the fact that we believe that in later years the retail policies that have come to an end have contributed to increasing distance and equity between public and concerted centres. We defend a single network with the same rights and rights between centers that have public funding, which in the morning inquiry, therefore, we have denounced that in the last few days it is not produced. We are not, therefore, to suppress concerts, but we are against transparent educational concerts, concerts with secretive schools, and here we are calling for the withdrawal of concerts and public funding from the centres that do not comply with the principle of co-education by means of mixed schooling – and for this reason we have put forward a proposal for the law to modify the LEC in this sense – and we therefore think that we should organise registrations so that there can be no exclusion from the studentship, guaranteeing the right to education, free of charge, and equal access. All this was already mentioned in the morning inquiry. Therefore, we are against any kind of segregation. But in this sense, when the first point of the class is about freedom of teaching, we have no problem, bearing in mind that it is a recognizable guiding principle to the LEC. But what we can't do is raise a young man who, in a context of so many difficulties for the public school, only bets to ensure the vigor and sufficiency of all current educational concerts, where these centers that secrete by sex, and presuppositionally prioritize these resources when we don't have the essentials covered. Finally, to say that my group will ask for the separate vote for each point and that they will always find us in the defense of public and quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.182.0	Next, has the word "Mrs. Pilar Castillejo", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.183.0	Good afternoon, all of you. Thank you, Madam President. MPs and MPs, we have to recognize that it has also cost us a little bit to interpret above all this first point, and we have found ourselves very identified with the presentation made by Mrs Simó. But I think we've put in a little good will, I think, too, fresh, that brings novelty, and that we're still trying to look at it with good eyes. And when we got to this very first point where they were talking about freedom of education in Catalonia, we came to the top of the legal persecution of families who choose to go home to school or the problems with which the Lliure Education Network is found, and thought, "Look, we'll still hear from the People's Party, in this young man. Or when he was talking about 'providing access to quality education for all Catalans; man, we would not have said 'facilitate', but we would have said 'guarantee', but we could also find it at this point. When they spoke that they had to be in line with the values and priorities of the families, we spoke to the families of whom they are their priorities, so most of them come with issues such as the non-blocking of the P3 lines, the downfall of the routes in this strip, so that, precisely, they do not close them, or with the priority, also for them, of non-massification at secondary level. So, look, right? We said, "Let's put this good will in there that we'll still get somewhere." We went on with this point and went on to complicate the issue, because they said that ‘it must be respectful of democratic and legal principles. And here we know that we have contradictions of how to hear this dichotomy between legality and legitimacy with the People's Party. Because until now the subject was a little concrete, we understand that here we arrive at a point where they can be contradictory. Because, for us, in a few points, completing the LOMCE implies not fulfilling democratic principles; like, for example, the Decree 29/2015, of center directions, which for us implies a non-democratic management and participatory practice of the centers. Or, for example, to respect democratic principles, as now the agreements reached in this Parliament with the 9-N declaration, therefore, implies disobeying the LOMCE. And, therefore, we knew that in this dichotomy we would no longer find each other. In short, we found that this first point was little concrete, contradictory, and that it led to confusion and that it allowed us to interpret, as you see, a lot of different, and that, therefore, we could not harvest it. In the rest of the points, however, it was quite clear. In the second and third years, they clearly stated that they were talking about preserving the mixed system, ensuring the stability, validity and sufficiency of this mixed system, maintaining educational concerts. And, last but not least, when they were already talking about the 2016 assumptions, which are being elaborated, he was talking about stability, vigor and sufficiency, but, ep! , only for the demand of the concert; they did not speak of this vigor, sufficiency and establishment for the teaching. Reading the point: « Eh, eh, eh, uh..., disposition of necessary economic resources that guarantee the stability, validity and sufficiency of educational concerts in Catalonia. He's not talking about the two of us. Well, then, it's very clear to us and we don't have any interpretation problems at this time. We appreciate, therefore, the clear terms in which the question arises, which means maintaining the concert and ensuring its functioning economically. We believe that it is important to keep this debate at this point in time when we are proposing to build the foundations for a new country, because we consider education to be appropriate for this construction and to debate the educational model we want. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Appeal Constituent on the points raised by the motion is very clear: we bet clearly on a single public network, and we tend progressively towards this objective so that both ownership and management are public and can eliminate concerts, which are an anomaly with respect to the priority model in Europe. Families who want and want to pay, so they can do it, and businesses who want to do business, which they can do if they want, but they don't do it at the expense of public subsidies. This progress in the elimination of the concert so that the schools adapt to the public network or that they opt for a clearly private management but with a very clear starting point, and it is the elimination of the concert for those educational centers that secrete by sex. This has to be round and from the beginning. For what it does to the point of reference to the premise, the situation of economic crisis and retail policies have hit the education system hard, but essentially public education. That's why I need to reverse this mismatch between the public and the concerted. What? With a finance worthy and consistent with the importance we give to education. Therefore, this funding has to reach 6_percent of GDP. According to the report, public money must go to the financing of public centres. And thirdly, we must positively discriminate the distribution of resources to compensate for inequalities. This is a very short debate, a debate that is not complete, a partial debate about one of the areas. We believe that what fits is a broad debate about the whole education model, and that this debate can be discussed here about the ILP for the education model. It is a tool of participation that is collected for more than 95,000 signatures, endorsed by more than one hundred and sixty entities of Catalan civil society, and we believe that it is important to have this debate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.184.0	Miss Castilejo, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.185.0	...to have this debate to be able to debate the model in its conjunction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.186.0	To pronounce on the exams has the word María José García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.187.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, we will not accept the Catalonian amendments Yes, it is Pot because they intend to transform a support motion into a motion to reject and abolish the LEC model. They seek to nullify the freedom of education and the right to choose by controlling from the administration, with a single model, the education our children receive, which we cannot assume, moreover, as I said in the first part, that it runs counter to the declarations of human rights and fundamental rights and freedoms of the European Parliament. We believe that we are already aware of your concern that public education is of high quality and with sufficient staffing at points 1 and 2 of the motion, and also that no private centre can cheat when it comes to obtaining or maintaining a concert at point 3. As far as Citizens are concerned, we will accept Amendments Nos 1 and 2, which we believe complement the meaning of what we want to express. And with regard to the third, eliminating the supplementary payments in the concerted centres, we believe that it would only be possible if the concert modules covered the same cost of the public square, when they currently cover only 60 by the way. In addition, we are in principle opposed to interventionism and defend the freedom of private initiative. At the time of the amendments by Junts pel Yes, we have tried to compromise by incorporating the bulk of its amendments, all its amendments, but without distorting the priority objective of our motion, which is – Mrs Simó, attend to me – that families can be calm with the stability, guarantee, quality and sufficiency of the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya, provided through centers of public ownership and private ownership, which implies betting without complexes, without hesitation, for the guarantee, stability and sufficiency of educational concerts. If what Junts for Yes aims to eliminate these principles from the motion, it will not have our complicity. As we see, Junts pel Yes, what it does is literally delete from our writing, once all its amendments have been accepted, the stability, guarantee and sufficiency of the mixed network, maintain the educational concerts that comply with the law and guarantee in the 2016 budget..., to pay for these concerts; that's what they do, once their amendments have been accepted. They will have to explain to the families and to the sector of the concerted why they cannot and why they cannot vote for these general principles in such a simple motion, of such a simple wording. If the answer is that they do not vote for it because it is proposed by the PP, it will only be a sign of its sectarianism and its lack of democratic talent. And if it is a CUP imposition, what we are beginning to fear, then we already know who is in charge of this government. We aim to shield this public-private model without ideological discrimination and give peace to families. [[Widow's remorse.]] And this is what we are voting on. Thank you very much, President, Councillors, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.188.0	Why ask me the word, Mrs Simó?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.189.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.190.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.191.0	Now yes, Mrs. García Cuevas. In his last fifty seconds, I finally understood what the object of the motion was. I have to say: LEC, LEC, LEC. And that everyone is calm while applying the LEC. Thank you. [[Crits of "Very good! The applause. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.192.0	Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.193.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.194.0	Yes, thank you. It's already asked nshavia before, it seems...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.195.0	Oh, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.196.0	...yes. Yeah, it's already asked before we vote point by point, and we'll do it. We'll vote for the first point. The vote begins. The first item was rejected by 47 votes to 77, with 0 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, 48 – I'm sorry. Thank you for reminding me'ho. Next... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] I remind the Members that they have just entered now that once the vote has begun they cannot vote. Therefore, I would ask those three points that are missing not the votesin. Let's vote now the second point. The vote begins. It was rejected by 35 votes to 78 with 14 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, it's 15 abstentions – I'm sorry. But it's rejected anyway. Then we proceed to vote number three. Rejected, point 3, by 34 votes to 91, with 0 abstentions. Then we proceed to vote point number four. The vote begins. It is also rejected, point 4, by 11 votes in favour, 92 against and 23 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the transfer]] [[302-0004/11]] The wish of the order of the day is the Movement following the question to the Government on the transfer, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Sonia Sierra. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] I'd ask the deputies and deputies who come out of the room doing it in silence, please. We respect the companies who are talking or who need to talk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, and especially the representatives of the LGTBI associations that this late accompany us and that I want to welcome them. "No woman is born, no woman is born. This phrase by Simone de Beauvoir is one of the cornerstones of feminism, but it is also fundamental to understand contemporary thinking, because it breaks with biological essentialism. There is not a single way to be a woman, as there is not a single way to be a man and as there is not a single way to love. If there's something universal, it's definitely the difference. It is not the same word «marriage in the present time as in the feudal era, as it is not the same in India as in Sweden. Also the consideration of trans- and homosexuality are different over time and space. It is enough to remember the beautiful passages of Plato's Fedron. Thus, all different, but at the same time all equal in rights and freedoms. From Citizens we demand absolute respect for individual freedom, respect for the free identity of people and the equality of everyone, regardless of how we feel and how we love. Today, more than half of trans- and homosexual students claim to receive physical or psychological assaults. These data are an offence to democracy, an insult to the rule of law and certainly not acceptable. We cannot allow harassment in our classrooms, and from Citizens we are not willing to allow it. Stuart Mill says in his book On Freedom that "the only demarcation of the conduct of any person for whom this person is responsible before society is that which affects the others. In the part that only affects him personally, his independence is, of course, absolute. Over himself, over his body and over his spirit, the individual is going to rise. Thus, no one should be accountable to society for their identity or sexual orientation. Those who should be accountable to society are those who violate the freedom of others to be and to feel as they please. Those who have to be held accountable are the ones who harass, they are the ones who assault. We cannot allow harassed minors to be those who have to change centers, which is what is currently happening. It is also necessary to revise the classic definition of harassment, which speaks of repetition. Because how many times do they have to insult you, assault you, see you or take your sandwich away so that it is considered harassment? No, from the very beginning we have to act or, better yet, what we have to do is prevent it from happening. And that's why teacher training in this field is so important, Professor Gemma Lienas told us this morning and I said it last week; but face training, they don't serve much these online courses that are left to the good will of teachers and that in many cases they don't even know that they exist. We want schools to be free of violence, to be places where students can develop fully and where respect for the freedom of each person reigns. That is why we are tabling this motion. We want to develop a protocol to prevent school harassment by trans- and homophobia taking into account the advice of LGBTI associations and platforms, which have been fighting for freedom and equality for years. And we want to create a specific protocol to treat transsexuality, because in most cases the faculty does not know what to do with these students and can find problems. For example, when using washbasins or changing rooms, or with names. And above all, we want to finally implement Law 11/2014. This is a work of all and of all. And that's why I want to thank my colleagues Laura Vílchez, child spokesperson, and Naomi de la Calle, equal spokesperson, and the contribution of all parliamentary groups. And it's not a phrase of parliamentary diplomacy, it's really. I believe that the contributions and everything the other groups have worked on have served to make a text much more interesting and much better than what we had originally presented. And especially I want to thank the support and work of the LGTBI partnerships and platforms. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.198.0	To defend the exams, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.199.0	Thank you, President. From Catalonia Yes it is We may want to thank this motion presented for Ciutadans as a result of the inquiry to the Government on transfer. We agree with all the points he sets up. Also, we want to highlight one of them: the need for a strategy against male violence both at the educational centres and at the school or sports spaces. We understand that it will be necessary to discuss this strategy, that in our way of hearing it passes to ensure that the gaze of our society is equal to all people. As the Low Counselor said in the previous Ple, it is not a LGTBI asset issue, but a matter of equality of all people. Our educational system continues to have an androcentric look, the fruit of a secular patriarchal structure. This androcentric look is what places heterosexual boys in the center and leaves them on the periphery, lacks of equality of opportunity and power, and understated often at the settlement, all the girls, the LGTBI boys, the student of other ages, the student with functional diversity and the student without economic resources. Thus, the strategy goes on to modify this androcentric look, which is manifested, for example, in the curriculum, with contents always related to the figures of the center of power. Or go on, the men. And don't tell me they all depend on Madrid. Some intervention skills we have. At the end of LOMCE, 45_percent of the school curriculum depenia de Catalunya ; 55_percent, Madrid. LOMCE now restricts our ability to maneuver. But is there anyone who applies this to you? The strategy also changes the look of the text books, an androcentric look that is embodied in illustrations and texts. Just one example: a textbook of current philosophy speaks of Greek democracy as a very evolved system on which to make political career it was necessary to dominate the oratory. At no time did the author of the book recall that women were not part of the system. The strategy also goes on to teach the student to have a critical feeling before movies, songs, novels, web pages, radio and television programs or advertising that favor this look. Haven't you ever heard the pop songs our teenagers listen to? Most project as desirable patterns of abusive pair relationships where control and jealousy are a form of love, and naturally they are always examples of heterosexual relationships. And the strategy also has to go through to change what many times is still limited to being mixed education at our centers and turn it into authentic co-education, based on respect for sexual diversity and gender. On the other hand, we did find a missing aspect in the motion presented for Ciutadans, which for another band we loved, and that is why we added this point: the need to implement mandatory and face-to-face training in sexual diversity and to generate for any worker in the public or private sector. Only such people as LGTBI, vagina on vagina, will find themselves with people without harm. This formation should be done with LGTBI entities and women's entities. Finally, I just want to add that our parliamentary group is pleased to be able to give the vote to approve this motion, which is progressive and very necessary. And we just want to highlight our strangeness, and sometimes our satisfaction, in seeing the ideological evolution of Ciutadans in less than three months. It was just before November 25th, International Day against Violence against the Donors, that Catalonia Yes it is.It was possible to present to the rest of parliamentary groups a statement against male violence because it could be approved by Parliament. While being very generic, it was not easy to agree with her. Among other things, we had to take the references to the clipboards if we wanted to get together for the Yes and the PP to sign it. But we also had to suppress Ciutan's institutions in this paragraph, which said, "The persistence of values, attitudes and patriarchal behaviors, which presuppose male dominance and female subordination and which are present from the school curriculum to communication media, passing through the distribution of wealth or places of responsibility to our society, kept unequal relations between women and men. It turns out that three months ago, he did not accept it and the ideological title and now, in this case, he incorporated the queer theory, an ideological turn of one hundred and forty degrees at a time remembering. Congratulations. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.200.0	Next, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.201.0	Thank you, President. Advisers, advisers, president of the Generality – excuses – Members, deputies, well, we find ourselves in front of a phenomenon that affects a collective of our society that from our point of view has to be approached with the utmost respect and, of course, with a human optics and with respect for human rights. I believe that in a matter like this we cannot allow ourselves to be led by excessive attitudes of some, which stretch from how transsexuality is treated from a medical and scientific point of view. Go so far that from the party I represent we show ourselves totally against the transfer. I'd just miss it. But, said that, we already manifested it in his day, of discriminations there is at all and for very different reasons. And it's true that in the realm of education this is accentuated. But we must still be aware of the fact that the placements, at school, at work, at the same family, are very diverse. And that's why in his day, when the LGTB Law was approved, we reiterated on various occasions, the same way that Benestar's ex-counsel, Neus Munté, did, the possibility of giving legal coverage to all those people who, for the reasons that follow, suffer from physical and psychological humiliation. We all know that the approved law has been applauded by the collection, but not by those who do not believe in the ferocious interventionism of the institutions, and much less in the reversal of the burden of proof, where the accused must be the one who demonstrates his innocence, and not the accuser. Mirin, since October 2014 this Parliament has had one of the world's most advanced laws on sexual rights, according to the same government and LGBT associations, a law that aims to combat discrimination against homosexuals and transsexuals. Well, one year and a few months after his approval, we find ourselves, sadly, in front of a case of suicide by transfer. It is curious that now, that we suppose we have more instruments than ever to settle for being transsexual, we find ourselves with the first case of suicide in Catalonia. We hope that the LGTB Platform and related associations will use all of its potential activist to tell the Government that it is responsible for something, bearing in mind that the same project says, and I read textually: "Questions have been settled as to whether emotional and sexual diversity is taken into account and whether any type of discrimination and action against the targeting of LGBTI people in the school environment is avoided. Result: Unfortunately, a suicide of a boy in Rubí. That said, and following this line, before the Ciutadans motion, and in line with the report of the Greuges Synod on children's rights in November 2014, we have submitted a couple of papers to the proposal and I thank the Member Sierra that you have accepted. In the first place, when we talk about school accommodation, in this case it is for a general reason but we have extended it to other reasons that are certainly more abundant than the one we are dealing with here, we ask the Department of Education that I believe the necessary mechanisms because in the educational centers and spaces there is a prompt detection of the signs of student patience. Secondly, we urge the department to ensure that the teaching centres address the suspicions of a situation of possible concern in a comprehensive and determined manner, with special protection on the part of the professionals of the student centres who may be victims of such a situation. To say that we are totally in agreement with point 6 of the motion, which calls for programmes like Kiva, since it is a clear referent on this issue, not only in the classrooms, but also in the network, and we think that programmes like Kiva have shown that, more than the increase in school welfare and motivation to study, they reduce anxiety and depression. Finally, I want to finish my intervention by making a reassessment to the health professionals of the world for their discreet pocket. They are communicated through academic articles and scientific papers. They are not engaged in activism, because their profession requires quality attention from everyone, belonging to the lobby that belongs and believes what they believe. And I agree with psychiatrist Carlos Chiclana that the path of science is better than that of ideological struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.202.0	Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.203.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs..., Companions and Companions of Observers against Homophobia and the LGBTI Platform of Catalonia, welcome. Catalonia has been at the forefront of enacting a law that defends and explicitly guarantees the rights and freedoms of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and intersexual people. It is Law 11/2014, a law that we have to say pioneer in the world, which we approved on October 2, 2014 with the vote, too, of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Now, after more than one year of entry into force its implementation and development has been very deficient, insufficient, and even absolutely non-existent in some areas. At the educational centers of our country there are cases of bullying, school settlement, for LGBTIphobia, insults, menyspreus, vexations, alition, extortion, threats, physical assaults... They are situations of violence. An authentic shacra that has always dissociated itself following the same pattern: the victim has to change center, the aggressor remains immune and the Public Administration does not activate the necessary mechanisms. And we are referring in concrete terms to the case of the Department of Education of the Government of Catalonia, which unfortunately did not have to complete a firm and decisive action plan to avoid, combat and eradicate this problem from the classrooms of our schools and our secondary schools. The law is approved and is a good law, but it does not unfold or apply sufficiently. And that's very difficult, because it involves an absolute lack of defence before the violation of the fundamental rights. The law approved by this Parliament established, and establishes, a clear mandate for public administrations to put all the tools and resources in place to prevent LGBTIphobia and to veto the right to non-discrimination or exclusion on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, and to denounce it when this right is violated. Last year, the Observers against Homophobia, who accompanied us, intervened directly in seven cases of bullying for LGTBifóbia at different schools in Catalonia. Therefore, it is urgent that all measures be taken to prevent children or children, adolescents, adolescents, victims of school placements, to change centres or to abandon studies; to prevent them from being widowed or induced to commit suicide, because they have been robbed of their dignity, respect and freedom, as has been the case with Alan, who shows all the cruelty the harsh reality of a minor transsexual in the construction phase of his gender identity. The death of Alan, a little more than two months ago, asked us as a society. We're talking about dignity, respect and freedom. In short, we are not talking only about sexual rights, we are talking about human rights. The complicit silences, the banalization of unacceptable, intolerable acts, or acting as if nothing had happened; it must be looked at another band. It is essential, as the law says, to provide the centres with mechanisms to detect situations of discrimination or exclusion from any person for such reasons, which should oblige them to equip the direct teams of the centres, the faculty, the couples, the seas and all the citizens of the orientations, the prevention protocols, the detection and intervention of the tools and the resources necessary to deal with the situations of hatred and discrimination. Thus, and for the CUP - Creed It is essential to lay the foundations for a long term coordinated work between the various departments with responsibilities in this area – Education, Salutation, Work, Social Affairs and Family and Interior – and the provision of the corresponding premise for the full implementation of Law 11/2014 to ensure its correct and effective development. We are aware that the Observers against Homophobia and the LGTBI platform of Catalonia have held talks, at this time, with the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, and also with the Director General of Igualtat. We understand that an emergency meeting with the Teaching Counselor is necessary, and that the upcoming establishment of a work table is needed to activate performance protocols and the LGTBI National Council. It is for all these reasons that the CUP - Call Constituent vote in favour of the motion that the Ciutadans Group has rightly presented to us. We have made contributions, we have introduced proposals which have been well received, and which we appreciate, and therefore our vote will be in favour. Now, except for item 7, in which we shall ask for a separate vote, as it was the only item that they did not fit in. Finally, we insist that the complicit silences, the banalization of unacceptable and intolerable acts or act as if nothing happened. He just needs to see that he's looking at another gang. Why? By dignity, by respect for freedom. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.204.0	Next, has the word Ms. Montserrat Palau, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.205.0	Thank you, President. President, deputies, deputies... and all the people representing the various LGBTI associations that accompany us. It is always a goig and it is positive, and, above all, in the first intervention of the Faristol, it is possible to defend individual and collective freedoms and to do so, in addition, with an amplification or, if not, general consensus, as is the case with this motion that we are now dealing with against this destructive and discriminatory pathology that is transphobia, which, in addition, involves rebreeding and violence. This young man refers, above all, to a type of accommodation, to the type of school accommodation. One, one type, I remarcate, because, unfortunately, there are many others, not only for reasons of gender, for identities of gender or for affective and/ or sexual orientation, but also other assets by ethnicity, class or power, that can be denounced. She's a young woman, especially in the field of education, which is basic, functional. Even though it would also heat, and it will heat, affect many other areas and departments, because we have to end discrimination for reasons of affective orientation, in the case of gays, lesbians or bisexuals, and for reasons of gender identity, in the case of trans people. But every step is important – every step is important – and, despite some discrepancies with her general presentation, as we agree..., you quoted Simone de Beauvoir, Mrs. Lienas cited the queer theory. Caldria, too, quote the lady..., or Judith Butler's studies. But we agree with the broad sense and purpose of the motion. Moreover, taking into account that, for a band, as mentioned in point 1, the Department of Education already has the protocol for prevention, detection, evaluation and intervention in front of school placement with resources that work gender identities and affective and sexual orientations. And, for another band, as well as point 3 of the motion, because they have already established and are establishing protocols of action with the joints in the march of the educational plans around, and are promoting projects of community, coexistence and collaboration with LGTBI associations. We also agree, from Juntes pour el Si, with the need to develop the necessary actions to compliment the laws 14/2010, on the rights and opportunities of childhood and adolescence, and 11/2014, which guarantees the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals, to eradicate homophobia, lesbians, biphobia and transphobia. And, moreover, as mentioned earlier, the concrete defense of Article 12, Law 11/2014, together with all the agents of the educational community and with LGBTI associations; some associations and entities, is to say, always willing to participate and with which there are various groups that have..., we have had meetings and changes of impressions. And, as they ask, this, yes, and it will repeat, a real deployment, carried out, on hold, by regulations, of these laws cited so that these involved collectivities can exercise their rights and actions provided for in these articles. Also, as the young man says, push us programs to eradicate any type of school settlement, with models like the KiVa project, which is cited in the Finnish motion. Just because the preventative resources of the Catalan protocol of prevention, detection, intervention in front of the settlement between the same coincide with this protocol. As Mrs Serra said, which has preceded me, very much in agreement with all the points of the motion; but obviously, even to coincide with the text of many points, which, as was also said, have been agreed and agreed, we cannot vote in favour and ask for a separate vote of the last point. We do not agree absolutely with the geopolitical mark on the national mark. But we do agree, in this concrete case, in favour of social justice measures. And so our group is committed to bringing them to terms, according to the skills of our administrations and departments, and according to, of course, to a project of the future of a country that we want with zero tolerance on these rapes and discriminations. And, to end, simply: congratulate us on being able to agree, to bet on the recognition of sexual diversity and gender identities. We must, however, do a lot of work to be able to live the differences in terms of equality, fairness and freedom. We'll read and make pioneering and advanced laws, but it's not enough to thank the iceberg, or the tip of the iceberg, but to change your imagination and values, to put into question, in short, all of our system of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.206.0	Mrs. Palau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.207.0	... obsolete, heteronormal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.208.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.209.0	...and patriarchal. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.210.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word Ms Marta Moreta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.211.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President, Honourable Councillor, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Deputies, I would like to congratulate you before you start the Observers' representatives against Homophobia, the Vice-President of Gay and Lesbian Families and the President of ACORD. The European Union has been at the forefront of the rights of the LGTBI collection, and in Catalonia we can firmly express that its rights are guaranteed, as it could not otherwise be, and, if doubt be, it is one of the places in the world where this collection can live better thanks to the legislative framework we have. Despite this finding, we still have a long way to go and many things to improve. Every day, from different reasons of our country, men and women have struggled, fought and worked to end homophobia and transphobia. However, we still lack a lot of training to raise awareness of this issue, despite the legislation adopted in this Parliament, which is a big step forward. The law represents an instrument that guides us in the struggle to eradicate discrimination by reason of hatred, sexual orientation or gender identity. We must therefore ensure that this instrument gives us all the resources that are needed. This law, approved in this Parliament on October 2014, provided that in one year its deployment was implemented, and it is certain that some actions have been implemented, such as the campaign to disseminate the content of the standard and the empowerment of phone 012, in addition to the complaint form for people who feel their rights violated, but for our group, for the PSC, this is not enough: in order to immediately set aside other areas that define the law, beginning with respect for emotional and sexual diversity throughout the education system, the regulations of centres, school materials..., among other topics. And we need to include in the 2016 pressupost a specific game in order to be able to deploy the law. Unfortunately, more resources do not mean to eradicate pressures and attacks, but they can prevent them. The bullying, unfortunately, continues to be present in our classrooms, where a good part of the students assigned belong to the LGTBI collection. We must be tough and forceful, and sanction, as it was approved, all those who want to humiliate, reject or incite rape to people by reason of sexual orientation, identity or generative expression to people who intentionally prevent the processing or access to a public service. And, obviously, it cannot be allowed under any concept to set up and attack these people or their families. We know that the goal is not to punish, but to prevent and deter, and because all this is feasible because it can put more resources in formation and awareness to the whole population. So far, it has been found that the insults are mostly the ones above the center of 012, above all carried out in the social networks, but it is clear that, as they see the events that have happened, we still need to work more intensively because the attacks and harassment, the violation of sexual and reproductive rights and the school settlement disappear from our society. The most vulnerable sector are, as you can imagine, minors who suffer verbal and physical attacks. The misunderstanding and discrimination seen by these children makes them very vulnerable. We don't want to bully any more at school or anywhere. Too many acts of harassment and rape that, as I have said, unfortunately, with more resources, we will not achieve the total protection that all citizens of our country deserve, but we can move forward than to achieve the eradication of acts of harassment. This motion put a special emphasis on developing the rules of Law 14/2010 and Law 11/2014. So, honourable Counselor, that is what it is about: to make what Parliament unanimously approved complete. We work, develop and approve the laws to complete them, as much as over the laws, the desires and good intentions are people, people who suffer every day, who are assaulted, insulted and assaulted. And that's not just for willing to have a law, obviously it has to apply and make it effective. Let's just let everyone stay the way they want, feel like they want and make Catalonia pioneer on this issue, and with those who transgress, with these, Counselor, zero tolerance. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.212.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Sonia Sierra, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.213.0	So, about the reviews, above all, what I want to say is thank you. I said before, it was a sincere acknowledgment. These items, girls with all the good will and the will to collaborate, have served to make a very complete text. I think we're dealing with a lot of things, it's a lot of incidence, for example, in teacher training. For me, as the teacher, this point is especially important because I also know the anxiety of the teacher when there are problems in the front and there are no tools or how they can be solved. I am very happy with the unanimous support of this young man. I think when it comes to new politics, it's not a fetal phrase. I think the citizens of Catalonia are waiting for this, they're waiting to see that we work to solve problems and that we don't come here to mess with each other, but we're willing to be able to term projects that actually serve to solve problems and improve people's lives, their day-to-day lives. And then, beyond the graces, I'll also tell them that if I have something that I'm very heavy; then, I think I'm very careful that it's not really in good will and photos, but it's actually doing things to fix it. And I am convinced that those of the LGTBI plataforms and associations will also be vigilant because this is not left to take a picture and some applause, but, in fact, we end up with the LGTBiphobia once and for all, because it cannot be accepted that this is happening to a democratic society in the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.214.0	I'm calling it a vote. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rod...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.215.0	Madam President, for a separate vote on points 2 and 6a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.216.0	Okay. [[Long break.]] Separate vote has been requested for points 2, 6a and 7. So, we'll start by voting point number two.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.217.0	The vote begins. Point 2 was approved by 119 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions and no votes against. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now let's try it, by the vote we'll try it again. Okay? [[Pause.]] Now we're going to vote point 6 bis. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 121 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. And then, then, we'll vote for number 7. The vote begins. The point was rejected by 62 votes to 69, with no abstentions. And now, then, we will vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. [[Greetings.]] It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into health policy]] [[302-0002/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on health policy presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The talk by the lady assumes Escarp. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.218.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, this reason we present today is the continuity of that inquiry, the first that my group made on waiting lists to the Health Counselor. It was also one of the most discussed topics in the appearance that the Councillor made to the Health Commission, only to remember the data we were talking about: 104,000 people on the waiting list for surgery or 112,000 waiting for diagnostic evidence. Mr. Comín told us, at his appearance to the Health Commission, that in all public health funding systems there are waiting lists. The debate that we want to have is not this, but how long are the citizens expected to attend the primary school, the specialist, for diagnostic testing or for intervention. And what do you mean by the sum of all these waiting times that our citizens have to hold on to? Now as now, for the citizenry, accessibility to the health system is synonymous with hope, and, therefore, clearly, the consequence of retailing. At these times, many citizens go home without a concerted appointment, with the verbal compromise of the health centre or primary care centre that will be further notified. And the more forward, it's never clear when it's produced. This young man..., on whom I want to thank the papers presented by various groups and also the willingness of the transaction, which surely improve the text and, moreover, deepen much more in the whole field of transparency and in the same follow-up that we can make of the topic of the waiting lists. What we want is that the change that was made over waiting time guarantees, that was passed in reference time, is to say, that decree that Councilman Ruiz made, that made the rights lose to many citizens, from the outset is complete. From the outset, it complements that Convergence, in its moment, changed and that, at this moment, is in force. And from here, introduce the modifications of this decree that was signed and, therefore, recover the rights. Actually, if you think to complete, as you often do... – the Lord also said Start at the appearance –, the times that have been marked, nor that are of reference..., it does not cost money and, therefore, what we are doing is to recover the right, from the people, who have a standard_mark on which to claim before the enlargement of waiting time. These changes are based on time for primary care assistance, during emergency times, but also on these complaints: as in case of failure. That we didn't get through again, these 39,000 untested complaints, that they left, and that's why a decree was made to change it; that there's a management mechanism and review of the waiting lists, and that when a scheduled visit is cancelled, it comes with the reprogramming and, therefore, it can be done. This is what is being proposed today, at the same time as recovering the 83/9 motion of the Parliament of Catalonia, the one that could establish, among other things..., and gave, for example, more than primary attention and said that family doctors, pediatricians can ask, already directly, diagnostic tests, visits to other specialists. Some of the aspects – I think the counselor will share it with me – that are basic to unlock issues of waiting lists. And the later points, basically, plant, how can we have, all folded, information to know how long our citizens expect and what guarantees they have. Therefore, territorial inequities in the matter of salvation; measures to reduce them; advertising on the CatSalut website of all the lists of waits for first visits and specialties and, moreover, determined – through a survey of Catalonia Yes, it can be very clarified – by centers, and all the mechanisms that will allow us, all folds, to know in a very specific way the situation of the lists of waits and also who are the mechanisms that can be put in place, many of them sometimes not presupposed, but which can give assurance to the people that in their time they will be treated and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.219.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.220.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable advisor and adviser, ladies and gentlemen, to defend the position of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party in relation to this motion on sanitation, which has as its object one of the aspects that, at this time, we believe are more concerned about Catalonia's citizenship as is the situation of waiting lists not only for surgical interventions but also for diagnostic tests or also for primary care, as well as – why not? – the situation seen by the emergency services of the majority of hospital equipment in Catalonia, especially of the metropolitan area. We understand that she is quite a young man and that she is trying to reach a consensus with most parliamentary groups. And it seems good to us already, this will; it seems good to us that there is this will of the least. But there are some elements that we think are important to highlight, important to take into account what their value is. And therefore, we have presented, I would say, basically, two items; we have not presented three, but basically, I think there are two that are of use. A first point is in relation to the point in which the motion presented asked for attention in forty-four hours of emergency services and which our group said: "No, in forty-four hours, surely what is asked – thinking that it could be a mistake of the proposer – is that there is an appointment scheduled in the primary care centers. And, for another band, we added: "And attention to emergencies, which is in a maximum of twenty-four hours. And this is uplifting and this is important, and we know it can be difficult, but it has other derivatives and has other connotations. Why are we talking about the twenty-four hours in an emergency at a time when it has not finally been accepted? So, let's talk about the twenty-four hours in emergencies because here are other questions, like, for example: why are there accumulations in emergencies? So, because there's been a reduction in emergency care in the primary centers. If there was adequate primary care, there would be less influx into emergencies. The second aspect: the fact that there are hospital centers with closed beds, with closed plants, which makes that, when there has been accumulation in emergency centers, can not flow to beds because there are no beds. Therefore, according to important element in relation to emergencies. And that's why our group has presented the theme in relation to the maximum guaranteed time of emergency care, because this way we have evidence that there is a deficiency in the times of emergency care to primary care, on one side, and on the other side, there is another deficiency in the availability of beds to get emergency patients. But, if I may, we will give ourselves in satisfaction with the ideas they propose to us, even though we are talking about forty-four hours in emergencies, and we will do so because, as one of the points of the motion is to give support to a motion of the IX legislature, which is number 83, and in that motion the side says that the attention to emergencies must be of twenty-four hours, we will give support, because we understand that this is the key back from this young man who is present today on health issues. We have presented a third point, which simply refers to a word, which was the territorial inequity of the waiting lists, which is an aspect that we consider important. But we have also considered..., it is a subject, perhaps, more linguistic, that the word 'inequity' has a more immediate negative connotation and, in change, the word 'unequality' surely reflects more a neutral situation with regard to this situation. And we say that we prefer it to be a neutral situation because we believe that the fact that there are territorial inequalities can be seen as an aspect – and it is an aspect – of the system's denial, but it must also be seen as an opportunity – an opportunity – to try to balance the waiting lists in the context of the Catalan health system and, therefore, to improve the situation that in other places is not there. So, hopefully we can talk about assumptions, hopefully we can talk about concrete measures, hoping we can talk about other things that don't follow the plans that the councilman came to promise us last week's committee, we'll give support to this young man. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.221.0	Next, there's the word "Mrs. Marta Ribas," from Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.222.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, Members, Members, we do not come to this Parliament in Catalonia; we have come from politics, also in the last few years, also the group that supports the Government is going to be political these last few years, to support a determined government, to a government that has eventually had certain health policies, which have generated a clear setback in the waiting lists. Therefore, so much good now to resolve it, but you must listen – yes, if you must listen – that you have been supporting certain policies that have brought us to this situation. A retaliation of presupposition, a retaliation of resources that, obviously, has caused the degradation of the service. Levels of expenditure per capita of new years, 1,400_million euros less budget than in 2010, 1,250 less structural beds, almost five thousand less professional: this has repercussions on the waiting lists, obviously. More waiting lists, especially in diagnostic phases, and a constant collapse in some hospital emergency services. We've been living these past few years, we've been denouncing the city these past few years, mobilising the city because we've solved it these last few years and they're following it. In reality it continues to exist. In parallel, in these last years too, the system has been perverted, based on opacity and confusion in the planning and buying of activities, with an increase in the referral of patients to private centers, some of them with a desire for work, while in the public there were these retails, there were closed operating rooms, there were fewer staff, plants and closed beds. And in these last few years there has also been a management of the lists of waits – as at least, to say the least – dubious; a management of the lists of waits with those "passive lists that give us the same professionals, with that point uncertain when you started counting on the lists of waits, etcetera, etcetera. The victim of all this is citizenship and, in general, not just citizenship, as well as the professionals and professionals of these services. Therefore, before this and also before the change in model that they made to us and from the split of the consensus on these issues, from that Order 102/2015, from the previous April, in which they moved from guarantees to terms of reference in the vast majority of interventions, and which, moreover, moved from six months to one year of these terms of reference, this parliamentary group demands that we urgently change all the turns, advise, as long as we think about health policy in the long term. It would be fine for the advisor to listen to these things because you are an heir, Mr. Comin, you are an heir to these things which I am now denouncing, of which the Government of Convergence and Union has been due to the end of these last years with the support of the Republican Left. We will support this young man – already, I have explained it to him, counselor, recover the intervention and listen to him –; we will support this young man and we have made various papers, as we have seen, and we are glad to see that they are incorporated primarily in order to incorporate some elements of more transparency respecting what was being reported, how the waiting lists have been managed, how the waiting lists have been used to give more business to the private and how it has not been done well to monitor how these guaranteed waiting times were controlled from hospital emergencies until the first, the diagnostic tests and, obviously, the visits to the specialists; points out that they were approved in respect of this motion that passed on to a protest. That's why we claim these reports with a_month of time, because these reports are claimed from a year ago. Therefore, let's hope that, in reality, with a_month of time we have these reports by the department. And two more items that have been incorporated, more substantively, respect the guaranteed expectations also in primary attention, in the scheduled visits to primary, and that the priority is always to the public management center when it comes to changing the center in order to be able to have guaranteed this list of expectations. To end only with a petition to the councillor: I do not know that it will approve of all the points of this young man but we hope, councillor, that you also mark the difference respect of the previous councillor complete to what is approved in the motions of this Parliament of Catalonia. And that, at the very least, those points that come today into this young man's office, are complimented and in the terms set for this compliment. It is not what we were used to in this later legislature; it will have the opportunity to begin to show us, with facts and not just with words, if really the Councillor Comín is different from the Councillor Boi Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.223.0	Next, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.224.0	Well, good afternoon. President, advisors, illustrious deputies and people who accompany us as visitors, my first words would therefore like to dedicate them to donating my condol exhibitions for the loss of a deputy company and, therefore, condol exhibitions to family and friends and to all companies. Always the loss of a company of work is a very sad thing and, therefore, wanted to make this recognition. Then, give thanks – give thanks – as we are talking today about waiting lists and, therefore, about salvation; give thanks to the health system professionals because I think it's thanks to all of them that we have a health system, so very good. And even though working – excuse me – with waiting lists makes it very difficult for a clinic to work, because it's not the same as being able to work with fast complementary tests or being able to ask for help from a company to help orient or change a case, with waiting lists, this, therefore, goes on and on, makes the clinic very difficult. Therefore, I want to thank them because they have endured all this continuously. And thank you also to the patient, patient patients; patience to endure and endure the endless and unjust lists of hope we've had for the past few years. Therefore, before this motion presented for the Socialist Group, I believe that there are only two options. The option of "no, which would be to continue the list of waits, which would be the old form or form, therefore, that we are accustomed to the later legislatures. To vote would therefore not be to continue on this. (The speaker shows some papers.) This is an exhibition, for example, of a CAP from here in Barcelona, from the periphery, where you have the lists of waits, the quadrants for each specialist, well, covered, you have anonymized the square, but you can make them easier without anonymization, huh? For example, well, I don't know what you would think if you had an abdominal hernia and you sent your doctor to the surgeon and gave you a visit for five months. Or, for example, if you have a process, I don't know, a viral conjunctivitis that doesn't just heal and you want to visit your ophthalmology and give it to you for between four and a half months. Or, for example, you have a hypoacus problem that is not solved and your urgent delivery will visit you between eight_months. Or I won't tell you if you need to change a backseat of the car and they tell you that the trauma will visit you in a_month. Seems to me, that's pretty unfortunate. Just like the face that I imagine this patient does when he comes out of the UAU visit, from the user service unit, and they tell him that he will visit the 29th generation of 2018. Of course, I know the face of these patients well: it's a face that usually doesn't go away, huh? Because the face of the doctor, too, in this sense, is quite easy to empathize with. Just as we have complaints – that some of us have entered for the president – such as the 1,111 signatures made by Resistência Clínic, in which we are told that there is no respect for the rights, that there should be guaranteed access to public health services and services to be held at an appropriate time, to obtain information about waiting time in healthcare, as well as respect for programming times, etc., and says « Tanquem Barnaclínic, SA, which expresses the discontent of the vehicles and the spread of resources of the Hospital Clínic ; or the one that perfectly presents to us the Marea Blanca, which tells us the same of waiting lists at the primary care centers; or the 7,889 signatures collected by associations of speakers, therefore. They all tell us the same thing. That would be voting' no. To vote 'no, therefore, would be to favour the inequities of access, the Barnaclinic, or that the people who need health care should pay for themselves - their mutual contracting butxaca to do so. Therefore, it would be to increase the inequalities in salvation that our advisor was commenting on us the other day; to perpetuate the desire to manage it, instead of prioritizing it better and finding a better financing. Let us remember that Catalonia allocates the lowest percentage of GDP to other autonomous Spanish communities and that, moreover, we are far beyond the GDP that Europeans are destined for. We shall therefore vote 'yes'. We will vote 'yes' because we believe that we should take over the professionals in the management of the waiting list, and we will vote 'yes' because we believe that care quality must be given priority because our patients are well-attended. We will therefore vote 'yes to all this. I thank you so much that you have incorporated all of our reviews. They have all incorporated them, and therefore we would vote yes, especially pleased about it; because we believe that the lists of waiters have been managed with clinical and social criteria and remembering that for us the list of waiters begins from the moment the doctor decides to send another patient to another company and, therefore, that day, at that time that the clinical order is generated, for us the list of waiters begins. And, therefore, being very curious to say is not a waiting list when the paper is left at the user's attention unit and we will already call you, and it will be between two and three months, when the trick, which will start the waiting list. For us this, obviously, will not be the waiting list. And we'll be very attentive to urgent consultations, too. Yes, it is true that we have discussed whether it is twenty-four or forty-four hours waiting for an emergency, but for me the most important thing is that an urgent visit requested for a doctor remains attended by a company in an urgent way. And it's urgent, usually, to settle it a day or, like a lot, the next day. Therefore, we will talk about maximum guaranteed time, without makeup. I agree very much with all this, but it does not serve the lists of hope as an excuse to drift to other centers with years of work. I'm done. I think you can change a lot of things, as I told you the other day, counselor, a lot of things in which, besides, you can't spend any money, you can just model politics...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.225.0	Mr. Soler, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.226.0	... – I finish already – and without spending money, with a different management. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.227.0	The words of Ms. Montserrat Candini, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.228.0	Thank you, Madam President. It's late; I'm sorry for the sight, too, I don't have it well. In any case, in relation to the motion submitted for the Socialist Party, following the question on health policy, tell him that from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, logically, we have looked at this motion not only with the vocation of public service that we carry inherent to us, but also with the will to give the maximum possible response – the maximum possible response – to these petitions, that another band, in good measure, tell us that practically 100 percent is complete. Allow me, however, in any case, honourable Member, to go into more detail with respect to the wording of your petition. We have asked you that in the first part, in any case, the phrase "immediately, not so much because it is not ours..., it is not because it is not our intention to express everything that can be and to improve, but that, moreover, we want to be sufficiently curious because everything that we do, really, does not generate any false expectation and really responds, with the instruments that we have, and with the ability, in any case, the assumption that we have, to be able to respond to the needs. Some needy ones are, that today we have, with some great professionals, with a very good system, but above all with the will, above all, to improve the day by day. In this sense, the adviser already expressed it on the day of his appearance, the firm will to undertake all the actions at his side to complete the terms of guarantee and reference to the lists of expectations, and also announced to us the presentation of a plan of action that must allow, in a term of no more than twelve months from the approval of the assumptions, to absolve significant reductions in the waiting time both for surgical intervention and for diagnostic tests and expert consultations. Therefore, we are convinced that this plan will age to guarantee territorial equity, access to services, with waiting lists, all reducing its variability, and therefore we are not absolutely convinced. Another thing is point 2 and third point, which, let's just say, when one of 'lsllegeix may think they have all the reason to be. But just because you have every reason to be, and because the paper can handle everything, we have to have just the balance between what we can do on the basis of the presuppositional availabilities, reference that we have commented on with the honourable Member, which is the one who, logically, has presented the motion..., because actually, if we look at it, we can be in good measure absolutely in agreement with many of the things. But it is obvious, honourable Member, and you know it, that you also form part of a political formation that has had institutional responsibilities and, therefore, you know that beyond the ideological vocation, the vocation of public service, which is very important is how to pull forward from, therefore, the elements and tools that we have. In this second point, and referring to the action plans of the waiting lists, we are convinced that we will be able to improve much and much, we need, only for this second point, 300_million additional euros to which we have. Therefore, go to the point where from a point of view, let us say, of vocation of service– of vocation of service–, we fully share it. From a point of view of better health care, everything can always get better, and we are also convinced that – so the counselor told us – he has..., let's say, his first objective is not only to maintain the system we have, but, in the measure of our possibilities, of the possibilities of the government, to improve it. But it is also true that what we cannot do is explain things without the necessary resources. Therefore, bad politics would do, the one that is able to generate false expectations and..., beyond proclaiming, in any case very legitimate, from another band, but proclaiming, in any case, with good will, but that they could not be fulfilled. If we do not go to the third point, we will see exactly that here, in the mean time, in one year, give compliment to the 83/IX motion of the Parliament of Catalonia..., here we have asked the honourable Member, who has accepted us..., also taking into account the clinical criteria that avalin. In any case, it seems to us that much more remains in the proportional share of more than the political will, with the professional criteria, with the criteria, in any case, of the people who know, of this sector, that it is absolutely, let us say it, important, but said in the past, also, that all this, in a very calm way, only occupies five rats, represents 600_million euros. Therefore, these 600_million euros, that so much good that we hold them and that, if I may..., that, in any case, the placements to all of you, those who in some way or other will give support to the conjunction of the motion, that at the time of the processing of the assumptions of this 2016 are absolutely sensitive to everything that represents, logically, therefore, the presuppositional rebalance of the Government of the Generality, of the assumptions of 2016, because at the time of the processing of the assumptions of this 2016, when of each of these motions individually we do not explain the bonds, the opportunity, the general interest, the ability of the capillary to be able to arrive at each of these difficulties and of these necessities, this does not have any other name that you do not understand, but rather, that you are able to do so. And finally, in point 4, present to Parliament, not in two weeks, but in four months, an analysis on territorial inequities – I think it is said to be "unbalanced, finally, "territorial" in the matter of salvation. He perfectly explained it to the counselor in his appearance, and we are convinced that in good measure the work is already being done and, therefore, in a relatively quick way this can be accomplished. So much for what he does at point five as at sixth..., from point five we have asked that he be deleted at the end of a_month, but absolutely...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.229.0	Mrs. Candini, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.230.0	I'm done, Madam President. Everything you have to do with transparency, for us, is absolutely essential, because it only explains..., and sometimes you also want to explain pedagogy, and if it is true that for us "explain and" transparency you want to say pedagogy, of course we will make more responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.231.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.232.0	Thank you, Madam President. Excuse me. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.233.0	Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.234.0	Good afternoon. I will be brief, but first of all I would like to highlight from this young man who worries us, surprise us – or start not to surprise 'nstant' – the hypocrisy of some who have been responsible for the infra-financing of the Catalan health system, who have been co-responsible for this health model which, beyond the detail that has been given to it, is already a health model or was a health model with deficiencies, which is now the flag and flag of public health in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] We understand that this is how we can be divided and the months that we need, but also that everyone is looking, evaluating himself, thinking about what he has done and, above all, working to reach decisions that are also collective and working together. We also wanted to say that, with regard to some of the points that have been made, we would also have liked to have had them before, and not with the departure of the plenary, because it is therefore very difficult to discuss, move forward and agree positions with the rest of the groups. And finally, finally, because I said that it would be short, we will support this young man convinced that both we and the Government share the goal of reducing waiting lists and sharing the effort, as it seems, of all the parliamentary groups present here, so as to find resources, so as to give a truly quality public service to all people and, therefore, to facilitate access to public health for everyone. We know that today there will be those who will make manipulated readings, interested readings, but no one doubts that we will continue to work for a public health in which we know that, for what makes the reduction of waiting lists and other issues of this kind, we will find ourselves and we will be able to find ourselves perfectly with the Government, and that we are here to ensure that the construction of the Catalan Republic advances and that, in the measure of what is possible and in all that is at our hands, the public services of the future republic will be accessible, for all, of quality and truly public. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.235.0	To pronounce on the exams has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.236.0	Thank you, President. I said this before, to begin with: to thank the presentations that have been presented, to enrich the text itself, and also some of the observations that have been made, that perhaps, therefore, they can give out to this young man and, therefore, to his compromise. I'd like to make a reference, and I'll start it by the end, at the intervention of Mrs. Reguant, and then, if I have time, I'll end up with more. Miri, Mrs. Reguant, my group does not feel responsible for the last five years of public health management in this country. [[remorse of the voice]] , from Catalunya, but my group does feel responsible [[applause]] and feel part of what Ernest Lluch did and what many others did for the health of this country. [[Greetings.]] That's what I wanted to say. Certainly, the thing that seems to me, more than that, is that..., look, you haven't submitted any papers. I think we could have agreed, because, among other things, with the waiting lists we are all agreed, because we all understand that there are people behind us who are waiting, and so, possibly, we could have all agreed. You can give support to a government for a specific purpose, but in any case, don't apologize. Let's be clear, and we'll all be hearing from each other. But I understand that they share with us that the waiting lists and the problem have to be addressed – they have to be addressed – and they have to be addressed seriously. I, therefore... Mrs. Candini spoke before the presuppositional availability. A premise is political will. And, therefore, when you do, I turn back those political intentions, and also the decisions of this Parliament, and therefore, it prioritizes what you think is most important for the citizen and citizens, the best way to guarantee their quality of life and public service to what you refer to. We have no objection to introducing the issue of professional criteria, which would only be lacking. They are the professionals of this country – and I turn back the words of Mr Soler when he gave thanks to the professionals of this country and to whom they endure day by day, too, the management of the waiting lists, and also the fact of saying to him: "I can't reprogram it, because it doesn't leave me the computer and, therefore... I'm the only one who asks them is that..., possibly there are 900_million euros, but in any case, they're sensitive at the time of making the assumption. Not so much the collaboration as the sensitivity of what is said and the sensitivity of what is more important to prioritize. We, from here, as I told you on the day of your appearance, will always be about to throw what we want and what we are going to do. Counselor, I didn't want to tell you, but I'm sure you'll have a different face than Mr. Boi Ruiz. But today, at the appearance of all the Members who have spoken about this young man, he has not made any sense that he wants to listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.237.0	You asked for the word, Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.238.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.239.0	The whole two? [[Pause.]] Two's a lot apart, huh? [[Pause.]] All of it. And the 3th too? [[Pause.]] All two and all three. Anyone else want a separate vote from any other point? [[Pause.]] We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] From the 2nd to the 2nd. It was approved by 71 votes to 1, with 58 abstentions. Next, we vote on point 3. The vote begins. It was adopted by 72 votes to one, with 59 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions and no votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the new water and land culture]] [[302-0003/11]] The next item is the motion following the question to the Government on the new water and territorial culture presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - the Constituent Creed. To expose it has the word Lord Sergi Saladié. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, tell them to shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.240.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Fifteen days ago we were here presenting or making an inquiry about a new water and territorial culture, explaining or putting forward proposals that are concrete in a youth, starting with a double focus: a first focus of general character, a focus of model change, a focus that will allow us to move into new sobrieties, from national sobriety, but starting also from that base, from the sobrieties of everything that we are affected by day to day; and, also, concretely in some aspects that we consider today – of course we are leaving many, but these we considered that they were, say, substantial for all the implications and connotations that they have – of concrete character. And that's what we say because the current context is, let's say, the current situation, two opportunities – it seems to us. The first one, which we find in a context of availability diminishes resources, especially the energetics, but also of other types, and that this is a question that we found with some data that we gave last week – we can not repeat them –, of downsizing of transport by road, debacle in the consumption of cement, for example, at the time of relating it to building themes... That is, all the system we have known until now does not work with the same parameters and, moreover, in our context, català, we are in a process of building a new republic. And that's why we say that this presents a double job opportunity to set up a territorial model change and a change in these sobrieties that he was commenting on. The young man who is present today is planted or planted, just like the other day the inquiry, in six large blocks. A first block, which is brief, that speaks about territorial model; three blocks that speak of water, and then two final blocks: one that speaks of mobility infrastructure and one that speaks of energy. The first point, or this first territorial planning block, is that in the framework of this new process we are beginning..., taking advantage of the definition of a new territorial model, new territorial planning instruments that allow or are based on sustainability, for a band; set up an objective of territorial rebalancing, that is one of the great problems that we have at the territorial level in the country, and, moreover, that is, that it is a territorial model and instruments that allow the relaxation of all sovereigns, especially those basic for life and subsistence as species, that are serious, basically: food, in other words, to eat every day; energy, in winter we have to scalf, and habitacional, that is, to say, we have a different relationship. In water, we planted a first block of water quality. Here we focused on two urgent issues: a topic to Flix, let's say, also very topical; it's to say, these are going to be over..., the decontamination process in an urgent way and it's going to be good because, besides, we're discovering these last few weeks that it hasn't been so good so far if we've said so, and so here, we have to put a special emphasis on this and it's going to be good. Also in relation to Iberpotash, all the problems it causes to the Llobregat basin, therefore, also, demand that the company complete everything that must complete any son of man, and without any type of exception, for the fact that it may mean or, somewhere, a more or less important company. We have a large block of water, related to themes of large transfers, currently fifteen days ago, but this whole problem of the threat of large transfers continues. Here we plant, therefore, a recognizance to all territorial struggles in defense of water, of the different rivers, of the different ecosystems. We also plan the review of the two great channels; one already practically executed and the other also with clear intentions to carry out, such as: one, the Segarra-Garrigues and, the other, the Xerta-Sénia, so as to make some regadios that are at the service of the territory, not at the service of speculation, of the great landowners, which is what is beginning to pass with the case of the Segarra-Garrigues. And, therefore, here we plant a focus, a resize, a revision to adapt it, really, to the needs of the territory with these political needs of territorial rebalancing, which is why it can end up serving to use this water well. We have another block related to the guarantee – in this case water – of these basic services, through the application of points 1 and 9 of the annex to the declaration approved on 9 November. With regard to water, we also ended up concretely on the subject of the report that came out these past weeks from the Anti-Fraud Office with regard to Ter-Llobregat, Ter Llobregat Aigues, to ATLL. And, here, let's say, what we consider..., it is necessary to explore the possibility of studying whether this report from the Anti-Fraud Office allows, therefore, by default of contract, to publicly reverse and recover the management of this water. And finally, we were talking about two issues: one in relation to communication infrastructures and the other in relation to the energy system. In any case, at the last point, therefore, I will finish making it a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.241.0	Next, to defend the items, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.242.0	Thank you, President. Mr Saladié, this young man, we suppose it was to mark position, but in the end what we have seen is that they have marked little, of position, because in many of the points you have gone to behind things that are approved in this Parliament. The last legislature we went to, various groups..., not just with energy, with nuclear, with the theme of reelers do not tell us new. But already the hardest issue, which seems to us, is the agreement that they have reached – well, the « agreement, this will that we are already accustomed to, ask them to the Republican Left, that from these many signed the last legislature, with the topic ATLL. And, look, that's hard, because they had the chance... today we had the opportunity to start the way to reverse privatization, because, besides, we gave them a very clear full route, with our goal. Because, moreover, we can now be very concerned about what the Anti-Fraud Office has uncovered, with the possible practical evils of ATLL, with incompliment, etc., but it turns out that apart from this, there is a whole question that you have seen since 2012 and that refers to the legal nyap of how this concession was made. And there are two sentences of the High Court of Justice that are not complete and there is a whole series of questions that, if we really want to reverse this concession, if we really want not to end up paying for citizenship, because there is the issue of the clause – I already heard it this morning, counselor, as I explained it – that it will fall on us like a space of Damocles and that it will make that in the end a mini-castor, we will have a "Catalic beaver, with the topic of the ATLL". And today we have the possibility, today we have a message that, in case some have not read it, I will read it, the message, look, it was that the Generality withdraws from the two cassation appeals that filed against the two sentences of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. The court, what do you say? You tell him first, 2013: "Listen, this, this concession has to be cancelled. And he says it again in 2015 – he says it again: "This has to be canceled, it has to go back to the contract table. We say: "Achatom..., that the government will immediately accept and recover..., take these feelings and give compliments. And that, even though there are other resources, because Agbar already knows that he continues with the appeal forward; we can make this recovery. And in any case, we can compliment these sectoral sentiments. Of what is contractual is to leave without effect this award which was made from the management contract, which was made to Action, and from the immediate return to the contract table. Therefore, we had a chance to go ordering this legal issue, which we have here since 2013. But it is that, on the other hand, we have this management that was done by ATLL..., we see that it also has problems – and we have seen it, we have dealt with it and we will deal with it with the following motion – for the topic that it has not only had of the practices of these invoices, but has incomplete terms of the contract. Because, for example, it has not made the desalinators go as much as it played and it has been extracting water from the surface and from the aquifers, which, in a situation of the same as we are at present, puts us in danger. So we had enough material to start this path. But you choose, in the end– and I suppose that this, of course, is to give support to the Government, that is its pact of government and stability–, for a thought that does not put an end to it, does not set a deadline, and that, moreover, it says that "in view of what the Anti-Fraud Office says, we will open an information dispatcher.... See, the Anti-Fraud Office – we have all read the report – has already said what we should say; and, so now, who does it... And besides, the Anti-Fraud Office tells you very clearly in its report, that this concession, that this bid is not well done. So, that's like, say, buying time. Let's get a kick in front of us, save time, spend a year working, and it's one of those chickens you have, and I guess with the negotiations on the pact, so they didn't have enough time to settle it. And I finish with the ATLL theme because there is one thing that I would like to say, and more to you, that has followed one of the people, in the territory, in the anti-nuclear struggle: to see, that you have gone from asking for the absolute shutdown of nuclears to not saying about a shutdown calendar, when you know that we are, the whole anti-nuclear movement of the State, with the theme of not extending it more than forty years, and you tell me that 2050 is all renewable, without saying anything more than the lockdown, of not extending life to forty years, so I know hard, I feel sorry. I suppose that's part of the government, that's the price you have to pay, but the sobrieties, as you said, are not just national, and because they are national they have to be energetic, they have to be food and we have to keep them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.243.0	Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.244.0	Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I will stand by some of the questions that have already been raised with the compromise motion that has been made to all parliamentary groups, not so much the points that we have tabled from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but as the text that has been attached to our consideration just now is not so much a matter of time, is it not? And there are questions of what is raised to the young person who will be approached yes or no, there are processes that constitute or do not constitute processes. So, here you're afraid they'll have to deal with it, aren't they? The territorial planning that Mr. Saladié proposed to us, we agree. I've already announced that we'll call for a separate vote, huh? , because we do not understand this difference between dealing with things if there is a process that is or if there is no process that is, when the themes of territorial planning based on sustainability and territorial balance, or the revision of the growth patterns, that the time and demographic situation of the country and the economic situation of the country have not confirmed the forecasts that had been made in the past, this, Mr Saladié, is on the margin of what you have beaten, the majority of Parliamentarians, as the processes constitute. Similarly, the recognition of basic rights: it has nothing to do with the process is that you want to get rid of. There are questions that they have to do with the dignity of people, with basic servants, who have nothing to do with this definition that you have laid down. You are afraid that this Parliament, the Government, the parliamentary groups must approach them in a normal way within the function of control of the opposition groups and of the function, obviously, of the government that corresponds to the execution. We would not vote in favour of..., we would have voted for the point of regaining public management of Aigues Ter Llobregat, as you had proposed. We will not support the formula that you have finally granted to the majority group of the chamber, Junts for the Yes, eh? It seems to me that the Member of Parliament, Hortênsia Grau, gave it to me, that's where it is, "the day passes, every time; she was talking about throwing a pilot forward. Well, that's exactly what happened; it's not addressing the issue we have at the top of the table. We said that this morning, we say it again now, when we can see the proposal of the law that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has put forward we will continue to defend it: we must return to recover not only the regulation, the public management of the administration with the discharge of Aigues Ter Llobregat. The High Court of Justice in Catalonia declared the proceedings null and void, said that neither of them, that is to say, I am talking about the two companies that are competing in what someone called the 'water war'. No, no, we believe that the government of the Government of Catalonia is responsible for this function. And this formula they found doesn't satisfy us, huh? We are not satisfied because this morning the counselor said to us: "When we detected it or when we detected it, we gave it to the Tax Agency. Of course, and it's true, the company that he runs cancelled this re-invoicing that he did. There you go! , that 2015 we have seen that it has re-invoiced those 13_millions to the Generalitat de Catalunya. So, listen, let's approach the problem face-to-face. And quite briefly, in the forty-seconds that remain: we will vote against the agreement that they have reached on the issue of nuclear power plants, because that is nothing to say. We are setting up a closing schedule and, as this issue has been written to the motion that is intended... – well, which is intended, no, that it will be put to the vote –, leaves the door open to review that the useful life of nuclear power plants is not forty years, as they were designed, but it is possible to open the door – it is possible to open the door – that someone is to ask for a review of longer, until sixty years, and you know that this discussion in the group – part of the group – that supports the government, is installed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.245.0	Next, the words of Mr Alberto Villagrasa, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.246.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members, first of all, tell the Members of the CUP that before one of their spokespersons complained about the times when the motions were being moved. Apply the story yourself. They present a motion in which they mix water culture, tolls, nuclear energy and one, in the end, thinks what the ultimate goal was. And the final objective is marked by the spirit of the first point of your motion, which is when you assume that with the supposed process you constitute you will have the competences of all these issues that you want to talk about. That is, to continue to bet on its sovereignist project and to continue to claim or charge against the State all kinds of reproaches and claims. With regard to water, you make some comments, one that concerns us and another that we find a little irresponsible. Irresponsible because they propose things like the decontamination of Flix's embassy, which has been done for two years with a very important investment and which the only thing they intend to confuse is because this is already being done. And then, I guess what you want is to go to the motion, that is, "Hey, look, this is done thanks to the UPC, and no, no, this is already done. You don't have to confuse people. And we are concerned about their position with the waterings, the regants of Lleida and Tarragona, because we understand that they have a position quite contrary to the interests of these important collectives in Catalonia and accounts of the waterings of Segarra-Garrigues and Xerta-Sénia. And that worries us, his position, to go against such an important collective in the lands of Tarragona and Lleida. But then we go to communication infrastructure. Well, there's here, I think, that putting forward a strategic vision with weight and it turns out that the only thing they propose is the suppression of tolls. Precisely, the tolls that are from the state. You want us to talk about tolls? Perfect. Do We Delete Tolls? No problem, but let's talk about everyone, those who are also the property of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Why don't we talk about them? Why do we not talk about deleting, for example, the C-16? And then there's the black legend, here the Lord Counselor, in the interpellation of the previous plenary said that there was an aggravation compared to the rest of the state. This black legend is nothing but a lie. If one goes to the AP-7, which is that channel of communication that vertebrates all that is the axis of the Spanish Levante, we see that yes, that there are tolls in Catalonia; also in Valencia, Murcia and Andalusia. And if you take the map of tolls that are state ownership, you will see that half of Spain also pays tolls. Therefore, of comparative aggravation, nothing, and lie, Mr. Counselor. And finally, by breaking down, they get us into energy. We can agree that investment in renewable energy must be prioritized, because it is the future – it is true, it is the future – and it is essential to have a more sustainable environment and make us more independent of oil and nuclear energy, that is true, but it is also true that it is totally insufficient – totally insufficient – for the energy responses we need today. I will give you a very clear example: if you go to the Forum you will see a huge photovoltaic plate, which had to serve ten_ thousand homes. This is a service plate for a thousand. Such is the failure of this equipment that had to be done the same side and in the end its construction was discarded. So let us be realistic. Is this kind of energy the future? Yeah. Is that enough at the moment? No, no, And you propose to require the State to shut down nuclear power plants, which are in Catalonia, and to paralyse the construction of high-voltage power lines. Can you tell me where we get the energy we need? Because you don't give alternatives. Not an alternative. Where do we get the energy? We will surely end up buying more energy from France, which leaves the nuclear power plants, surely, and with its proposal all we would achieve is to increase the cost of energy and this would be to the detriment of the user or a much more expensive electricity bill; and of another, we would end up having a totally deficient energy supply and would make us less competitive as a society and as an economy. And in the end, of his initial motion, I have three ideas, which some of them worry us. Your position against the regents of Lleida and Tarragona, which is very clear; that you simply care about the issue of tolls whether you are from the State or not, paying the tolls of the Generalitat, which are the most expensive, do not care, and, of course, with your energy policy, at home we are left without light. As you will understand, much of the motion cannot be shared. And here, this is our intervention and as you will understand, we will not vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.247.0	Next, has the word "Mr. Marc Sanglas", from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.248.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, someone, some of the previous speakers are complaining, let's face it, about what we've cheated on or what you've cheated on carrying the young man's joint, and only seeing the points in this young man's joint was normal for us to try to agree on a few points. She's a long-term young woman, she's a young woman with a lot of points and, therefore, from this point of view we've also done an ingenious job with Mr. Saladié and Mrs. Mireia Boya, and we appreciate the predisposition to the things we've presented. We have debated a lot, it has been quite a few hours trying to find points of agreement; as you will understand, there are differences in some of these themes and, therefore, what we have tried to do is to achieve a large majority in some themes that are sometimes difficult. I have not heard, either, Mrs Hortênsia, that you are complaining so long as we have also dealt with you and we have made a lot of agreements, and that, in any case, if you had any complaints on the subject of ATLL, you could have also made a proposal, a point in your motion on the subject of ATLL and, therefore, let us say, from this point of view, we seem to be discussing this agreement. You know that we have manifested on various occasions... whenever we have tried to reach agreement with everyone, and it seems to us that especially on these issues, on the issues we defend on environmental, territorial issues, this agreement is important. And, therefore, let's say that from our point of view it seems to us that we have to reach the maximum consensus and, therefore, work as much as we can. We share the philosophy of the motion, we understand that this country, this new country that we are building from scratch in many aspects and that, therefore, we want to build in this process constitute, must be a socially just, territorially balanced and environmentally sustainable country and, therefore, from this point of view we must move forward in some of the areas that arise in this motion. I'd like to focus on some of the issues where we've been the most debated because it seems to us that they're cool elements. Obviously, the whole issue and the scope of the water quality, all that makes reference to the pant and the decontamination of the Flix pant is important for us and, therefore, let's say, from this point of view, we also wanted to put into value the work that has been done from the Catalan Agency of Residues and that seems to us to have to continue and, in any case, to guarantee the return plan and that it guarantees the consumption of mouth for the inhabitants of the area. In the case of Iberpotash, we presented a statement, but in any case, the will was clear in the sense that no one escaped from the compliment of the law. It is obvious that it is a business that generates occupation, but this cannot go to the detriment of salvation nor can it go to the detriment of the environment, so it must be demanding – that it must be demanding – from the Administration to the compliments of all the environmental requirements. Someone pointed out that this young man was going against the regents. So, listen'm, we don't seem to. We have wanted to focus on this area and we have presented a message in the sense that we understand that we need to scale, that we need to use these channels, but in any case, to improve the efficiency, too, of these realms as a tool of economic value generation of the environment and that, therefore, it seems to us that it is important to point out, and that is why we have presented this theme that has been accepted. And, therefore, from this point of view, we also think that we have helped to collect and improve the text. For what it does to the theme of mobility and the theme of infrastructures and the theme of raising of toll barriers. Mr. Villagrasa told us: "Listen, the rest of Spain have tolls. Certainly, they have toils; but they also have free highways, which we do not have in this country. And, if not, you can only see the rescue of €2,000_million that the Government of the State made at Madrid's motorway dealerships. Just one example. In any case, we see that Madrid's policy has been in this sense to facilitate direct access to Madrid, but in any case it has forgotten the rest of the territories. We want to guarantee, with the aim we have presented, a first element: to guarantee communications in the territorial area, to guarantee the safety of life in these areas as well. And, therefore, it seems to us that, first of all..., from a perspective that a new policy of mobility that must pass through the liberation of tolls in a future..., but that in any case passes at these moments in order to try to divert the traffic from the « national lanes, between comets, to the highways in order to facilitate, I insist, and improve the road safety. And for what it does in the energy field, in the nuclear sphere, we think that the approach that is based, let us say, on the ideas presented better and continues in the line, Mrs Grau, that we have presented and approved in this Parliament on many occasions. A transition plan must be made that allows us to switch to renewable energies, but that does not have any negative effects on the economy or the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.249.0	Next, has the word Mr. Sergio Sanz, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.250.0	Thank you, President. In front of this young man who presents us the CUP, what we will do will be a constructive criticism, since there are questions of background in some matters that we might agree with. And taking into account the amount of questions that are dealt with in this motion is not a small thing. That's right, I don't mean, of course, the MacGuffin of this young man. You must remember that this is how you know that element of suspense that in the films makes the characters advance in the plot. Today, the name of the process is; yesterday, its political partners called it national construction. And it forms part of this conceptual mark of the separatist project, which, as I recall, does not have the majority support of Catalan society. But it is good that they remind us at every moment, in all the motions, in all their defenses, that their political priority is to raise a border that I have turned into strangers to our fellow citizens in the rest of Spain, in order to be able to counter it with the priority of all that majority of Catalans who, with you different, yes, what they claim is that we serve the duties of this chamber, of the Government of the Generality and of the set of administrations to give effective and realistic solutions to their needs. This time, I'll talk about the position we have in Ciutadans on other contents of the motion. We defend that the territorial and urban model of Catalonia and the institutions that are concerned must contribute to the solution of some of the challenges and problems of social and environmental character that are present to our society. And in this sense we think we'll find with other games of this shared camera objects that would force us to agree on the search for certain solutions. For example, advance in reducing the energy consumption of buildings that drive energy rehabilitation, or define plans to provide a public park of logger habitats, or establish measures to prevent new housing cylinders. We also need to reduce the environmental impact of urbanisation processes with measures that, for example, are used to reduce the effect of heat or water consumption of buildings. We regret, however, that in that point of the motion where you speak of territorial planning to what appears more strongly followed what was called "MacGuffin". We also want to be aware, as it could not be otherwise, of our concern and interest for the decontamination work of Flix's embassy. We think we need to keep moving forward so that every time the environmental vector has a definite import in all human actions. And if we're talking about energy and stick to the compromise that we've acquired in the past elections with our voters, we need to know that we're in favour of transforming the current energy model into a model where the percent of energy comes from renewable sources by 2050, with a distributed generation. And in this sense we are open to working with other groups to achieve this objective, which we believe will be technologically viable and socially and environmentally essential. In this sense, we think we need to work together with all the administrations: with the Government of Spain, in coordination with the rest of the autonomous communities, with the European Union. Because, sometimes, in this room, what it feels is that some people use its core to try to generate confrontation between the different levels administered. And that, really, I think our citizens don't care the most. And, well, we'd like to think that tomorrow we could shut down nuclear and thermal power stations and stop using combustion vehicles, but we have to act with realism and responsibility rather than with an ideological impulse. Finally, and bearing in mind what I said earlier, the Ciutadans Group will vote in favour of some points in the motion and some points. And we hope that the commissions will soon begin to function and that they will be able to work to give solutions to the territorial, social and environmental challenges that we have ahead. But remember: what you want to raise a border is not giving a solution back, making it difficult or preventing them, and raising a border, as long as you talk about sovereignty, is breaking a space of shared sovereignty that we have now with some people that you want to stop sharing social and political rights. And that, from a point of view of progress, is not only inadequate, but is ethically reprobable. All right, all right, Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.251.0	Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the Lord Sergi Saladié, of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.252.0	Well, as we said the other day and I come back to say today, there are no blocks that we're dealing with here... nor to continue talking about it and going deeper into every aspect of mobility, energy, water. I mean, you're afraid they'll keep talking to her. And, therefore, we are open to talking about any issue that I am moving forward on this model change. With regard to the PSC and the People's Party, we have not accepted them basically because we understand that they are lowering our plans. From Catalonia Yes, there is Pot there is one that is practically integrated into one of the points that we have already dealt with, which is the reference to Iberpotash, and the other is this question that you yourself commented on..., and that you now have to come out here to defend a young man who goes on water. So, what we're doing with this young man is exploring one way to solve this problem and get it back in public, and we understand that this other one, if you defend it, you can incorporate it into your own young man. And that said, this doesn't rule out that in the future we can continue exploring these other lives, right? I, therefore, give here our offer. In relation to the papers, which have followed the majority of what we incorporate into this young man, coming from Junts for the Yes..., it is also for a question of work in time and form that I have considered more appropriate. I mean, I'm new here, and I got a lot out of my mind this morning or last night. I say: "Ostres, and how do you now get to work, and to negotiate, and to talk about questions, that some are very important, with so little time? Maybe it's a professional defect, I don't know, but I like to work things out, let's just say, deeper and more substantial, and not with a few minutes or a few hours. So, what I have somehow thanked, let's say, at the individual level as the new Member here is to find a group, concretely with Meritxell, with Marc, to say: "Well, let's work this with a perspective of more days, more hours of being able to elaborate... And I think it's a question that we all need to improve on, because, if not, negotiating and talking about things at the last minute sometimes is very difficult. And with regard to the contents of these Juntes items for the Yes, so... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.253.0	Keep quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.254.0	Regardless of the time and form issue, which I think can still get better, because this is a young man who presented himself fifteen days ago... And that's it: the papers arrived today at the last hour. We've had 15 days, and it's a question that can work longer. So, as far as these Juntes are concerned, we do understand..., and we have accepted them, most of them, as they have come, because we understand that they substantially improve our own, and that this is also my fault at the particular level of being new and not hearing how things are to be put on each of the points, and somehow here it is also to take this muscle and this experience to work with what we understand allows this movement: to solve urgent and concrete problems and to move towards a model change that guarantees safe mobility, a public and efficient water management, a definition of a new nuclear-friendly energy model. And in any case, tell the groups not to share our political project that excuses the pests, but it's that we build a republic and want to do the best we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.255.0	Call it a vote. [[Hortênsia Grau Juan asks to speak.]] Mrs. Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.256.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4.b and point 6.a. Thank you. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.257.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.258.0	Also to ask for separate vote on points 2.b, 2.c, 3.f, 4.b, 4.c, 5.a, 5.b, 6.a and 6.c. ( The timer laughs.) Seeds of fons. ) Yeah. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.259.0	They have called for separate votes on points 1, 2.b, 2.c, 3.f, 3.g, 4.a, 4.b, 4.c, 5.a, 5.b, 6.a and 6.c. Okay? (Pause.) So let's start the vote. We'll start with point one. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's approved... (Pause.) What happened? (Whispering) Let us repeat the vote – let us repeat the vote. Come on, let's go back to voting point 1. The vote begins. It was approved by 81 votes to 35, with 16 abstentions. Now we're voting point 2.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 11. Now we'll vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes in favour, with 11 abstentions. Now we'll vote on point 3.g. The vote begins. It was approved by 80 votes to 35, with 16 abstentions. Now we're voting point 3.f. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes to 11. We will now vote on point 4. The vote begins. It was approved by 80 votes to 51. Now we're voting point 4.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 93 votes to 12, with 27 abstentions. Now we'll vote on 4.c. It was approved by 120 votes to 11. Now we'll vote on the 5th. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes to 11. Now we'll vote on 5.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 12, with 23 abstentions. Now we're voting point 6. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes to 26, with 11 abstentions. Now we're voting point 6.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We'll vote for the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 97 votes to 35, with no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into water policies]] [[302-0005/11]] The next item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on water policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, she has the word "Mrs. Hortênsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.260.0	President... Counselor, counselor, advisors, first of all, I would like to thank all the groups that have submitted papers for the facility to be able to reach agreement on a motion that, as I said in the question, addressed water issues, basically, in two blocks: the Pla hydrológico theme of the conca de l'Ebre, because, moreover, if you remember the demonstration that there was the diumenge, and I thought it was important that this Parliament is manifested, the sovereignty of this Parliament. I, too, the whole Pla de Conques internal issue. For this reason, Sergi, Mr Saladié, for this reason, I did not include the ATLL issue in this motion, because I have already told the councilman that I believe that the ATLL issue required, requires a motion for a resolution, but as if we were to have an opportunity with the 'law proposal that the Socialists have put forward, or, if not, we would present a new motion, it does not pass, or a new motion for a resolution, here I was interested in, we were much more interested in talking about environmental issues, talking about the Hydrological Plan of the Ebra Basin and talking about the Hydrological Plan of Internal Conches. So, said this, it seems very important to me that we approve of many of the points of this young man we have today. Look, and the first one, for example, seems to me important: that the Parliament of Catalonia manifests to the Government of the Spanish State this rebuilding to this national plane, that it has its sovereignty, I think it is very important, if we can approve this point, because it is no longer the entities, it is no longer the parties, it is the people of Catalonia, that the sovereignty is bad in this Parliament. It also seems to me very important that we can work on all the questions of shielding that there is no transvasion and that we can take advantage of and that we can take advantage of the resources that are there..., the resources that were already concrete in the Conca Plate, that is the whole issue of desalination, the whole issue of estalvi, the whole issue of purification, and therefore, we shield in some way that, despite the fact that there is a water deficiency, such as the River Conques Management Plate, in the ATLL complex, we shield that this does not involve a transfer of water, following the Hebrew, following the Kingdom or following external conques, as the Mark Directive says, that the transvasion is always the last solution. As we still have solutions, because the desalators have not worked, for example, at one hundred per cent of their capacity, so it is important that we approve this point. Also, all the good practice stuff in the... and that's what I appreciate in Ciutadans, isn't it? , because it ensures the survival of the Ebre Delta, all the compliment of the European directives. And here I'm very glad that City is also involved in this, because it's a question that everyone... and the stronger we are, the stronger we'll have the European Union, which is where we'll finally need to end up defending this plan. I have also accepted, we have accepted all the items of the CUP, except, well, on the subject of regadius, because, clearly, you, when in the previous motion, when they agree with the government on the subject of regadius, they agree to study, review the whole system Xerta-Senia-Segarra-Garrigues, and when I say the same, they say to me: "No, reverse. Home, no, so, if we review and study, we review and study, but what we can't do is when I'm in the government review and study, and when I'm in the other papers I want to reverse everything. I mean, if we review and study, let's review and study them, which we've already said with the councillor, that it's a matter that I think we'll have to put the two councillors here in order to overcome this gap that we have, historically, between conservationists and the agricultural sector, but it's a matter that we'll need to review, not just the Segarra-Garrigues, that there's also an economic issue, but also the Xerta-Sénia. And we are also very interested in the fact that all the documents relating to the Pla de conques internales, the Pla de conques fluvielles de Catalunya, which are about to be answered by all the delegations, which we would like to see, we know that the Government has been working on the annexes, but that we believe that, if it is approved, with these documents and with many of the delegations that have submitted entities such as Water is Life, as Ecologists in Action, I believe that it will be possible to improve this Pla de conques and actually complement the Water Mark Directive. Or so many thanks to everyone, and to others.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.261.0	To defend the exams, has the word Ms. Mireia Boya, of the Parliamentary Group Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.262.0	Thank you, President. We have presented four questions, if we have accepted all of them. We were able to talk about the politics of revenge, the privatizations, the expansion of regadius – hail, repayable –, to give impulse and consent to certain plans of transfer. It was possible to talk about water, so much so that it was necessary to collect all social movement and to oppose the National Hydrological Plan. Many of us are going to have a demonstration in Amposta a few days ago. And, as a matter of fact, we were so pleased that it was a motion that included this sentence, a major revision of all the regatta plans, because we consider that it was not a good way to manage sustainably that it was water to be created. I want them to ask for a Jewish father, and they ask for them to come to this country. For that reason, it was approved by the Ministry of the River Conk Management Plan of Catalonia, that in the beri punctuation of the cheap copy of the National Hydrological Plan; in the arrius as eth Ter and it was Muga produced a similar effect, right? Deishant eth cabau in minimums and deishant agusti agusti arrius en son tram end as that cause I eat that keystroke, right? , without the minimum ecological cabau eth. And it was all about an economic development that I based on torism and it was concentration and it was urbanization of areas that are densely populated. So we were water and a common good, and we bet on remunicipalization deth served as a nauta. We have not spoken much, in full notice; he will speak of it for a long time. Eth cases of ATLL, age nosati, ac have said and repeated, by active and per passive, e ua quêstion política, non e el aren mes, e osto sobre avu er report dera Oficina Antifrau, that, by default of contract, we see clearly that if it can reverse it was concession without compensation. They'll talk about it as soon as possible, as you say. It was a question that, if we don't have to talk as much as we can, we think that we're not opportunistic, and we talk about it in full or in committees; but we're going to look for microphones now and now for television, and we're going to rush into causes that aren't all right. In a word, we are surprised that in your motion, Mrs Grau, you did not speak of these cases of Aigües Ter Llobregat, if you are so interested in yesterday's call. You don't know why she's interested in talking about water, man, in passing. In any case, we find that there is a lack of seriousness; of the hotel, there is a lack of seriousness in negotiating these amendments that we have. You threw a sheet at a trillery that we didn't like. I've known we're new, that we're not so old, we've got a lot of road to run, lots of reasons to learn. Dilheu did not want to speak for a reason, because we could speak of him Manuel Hernández, whom I am a trust of Initiative, which I accused in a case that they see from ATLL, an age of this tripartite, by false document, by contamination of the arrival Tordera, by a transfer between Blanes and Cardedeu. And I also told him that he was following this question of the last CUP in the legislature, and that he was working very hard to investigate the CGT. Alavetz, he doesn't want to come in and shoot eth sant, does he? I want you to give it to castelhans, to come and kiss the saint. If you are medals, in the case of an alert, if you give them at this time, you are medals that you can go looking for in Lords. Still, as CUP was, we are tied and believe in that sustainable management of water, we have voted in favour of your motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.263.0	Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.264.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, move forward – I have already put it before Mrs Hortênsia Grau – that, well, the two points presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group were two points, from our point of view, technical, which clarified and improved the text, from our point of view. They did not accept them, but with the rest of the motion we agree and will therefore vote in favour. Because the hydrological plate has finally approved... from our point of view, it does not guarantee the continuity of the delta as we know it. It's not just..., we said at the end of the previous legislature, that the government of the Spanish State quickly approved a plan, practically in the last months, of the same plan, and now what has been done is a copy-stick, isn't it? It's the same way that it's been submetered and approved the year 2015. It wasn't, and we said it then and we said it today, it's not just an exclusive whole question, the one we're discussing, huh? We're also discussing water quality. The Marc directive, which we all put in our mouths, the main emphasis that it puts is not so much on the whole as on the quality of water, and because water has quality it is also necessary that there are fully guaranteed environmental conditions, which in this case does not happen. We still think that two European directives are being violated: the Water Framework Directive and the Habitats Directive, and that is why we are against this plan that has been approved. We do not agree, and we say here, that "at the beginning of this debate, which is an important debate, we open a confrontation between territories and between sectors, and this motion went in the line of opening dialogs, not only in Catalonia, but in the conjunction of the hydrographic conch, so as to analyze these questions, because the regattas of Catalonia are no better, or the increase of regattas in Catalonia, are no better than those of the rest of the conch, or are not worse than the rest of the conch and ours are better. So, this is a debate that we have here open. And I think that, like this debate and the proposals that it is about negotiating and dialogue tables, rather than negotiating, between the sectors involved, I think we have to approach – and the government has to lead it, the Government of the Government of Catalonia has to lead it, and I hope that a new government in Spain will do so too – as we optimize resources to improve food production, as we use water resources, but as we invest to improve the resources that we already have at these times. Other Mediterranean countries with the same water problems that Catalonia and the Spanish State may have, have done this, and have higher levels of food production than ours, in some cases with fewer water resources than Catalonia. We introduced the debate that I think is going to be introduced, even though Mrs. Grau didn't accept the slogan, which is the debate about the support rules, huh? This is a debate that will have to be introduced into this dialog that you propose. For what it refers to the Pla de gestion de l'districte de conca fluvial de Catalunya, we agree that it must be reviewed, because there is no justification, there is no justification for this decrease of 40_per_cent that is proposed by the complete maintenance. Or let's observe that there has not been a reduction of the entire captured to the Ter, all the contrary: the last year, Aigues Ter Llobregat, is to say, the concessionaire that exploits the system, has captured more cubic hectometers than those that are currently permitted. We will continue to insist – that this is a debate that we will keep alive – that, as a result of the policies that we are obliged to maintain to adapt to the climate change, the debate about regulation and water supply management in Catalonia in the hands of the public sector is strategic and crucial. Because all the diagnoses are already telling us that by the year 2050 we will have fewer plugs, we will have more water throughout the river system in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.265.0	Then has the word Mrs. Meritxell Roigé, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.266.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, adviser, « For Catalonia, save the Delta, gave the banner of the Platform in Defense of the Ebro that joined us to the three only Jewish deputies that have this eleventh legislature. Certainly, the three, members only of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes: in this case, the Speaker of the Parliament, the company Germà Bel and myself. That too must want to say something. Unfortunately, only our group counts with Jewish deputies in this legislature. But obviously, the three folds will work, and a lot, for the lands of the Jews. And with great satisfaction we were accompanied by members of the Government: for the Vice President, for Councillor Rull, also for Councillor Mundó, for the president of our parliamentary group, Jordi Turull, for many institutional bodies who wanted to accompany us that day to Amposta. And the people of the Hebrews lived with great emotion, because thousands of people from our country came and showed that the defense of the river, of the delta, is not only a territorial issue, but it is a question of country, it is a country issue. And, therefore, the assailant of all these people who accompanied us, who accompanied us, who filled our cars, who filled buses to be at our side in this struggle to claim a sufficient amount of money for the Jew, strengthens our cause before the European institutions and puts into evidence a government of the State which, although it is in operation, has wanted to approve a hydrological plan of concas without meeting scientific criteria and against the will of citizenship, of the will of the entities, of the will of the joints and of the will of the whole government. And we all wanted to make it clear that the Hebrew is a red line and that we don't accept any more impositions. The event had a distinctly festive character, as all that has taken place in the lands of the Jews and as we are accustomed to making the people of this country, because the defense of the Jews has followed and will continue to be a theme on the agenda of the Government of our country. Councilman Rull, a few days after being elected president, came to the Jew, was in Tortosa, then the President of the Generality also came, and both of them met with the Platform in Defense of the Jew. It became clear that the Catalan government's struggle against the conca plan is a firm struggle, it is a political struggle, but it is also a struggle based on scientific criteria. And if this citizen's attention is to be maintained, this popular pressure, it is also very important to continue teaching in the different areas that we are currently encountering. And we do it with the peace of mind that gives us the knowledge that the battle of ideas is won. For a common sense, because the technicians and scientists so support us, and therefore we will not give up explaining it where you need to be. Because we have seen that those who try to impose a hydrological plan on us, the People's Party, but also the Socialist Party, are looking to flee the territorial confrontation, tying fires between rulers and between different territories. And they won't get it. Because before all this we need to insist that a rule of law is the key to everyone's interests. No one needs to put the Jewish river in crisis, and the citizen less than anyone else. We are in favour of the kingdom, obviously; we give and give all support to the agricultural sector, to the Lands of Lleida, to the Lands of the Jews, because we believe it and because we have demonstrated it many years ago. But we will not share an inordinate increase in water resources up from Catalonia, an impossible irrigation like the one that lays the hydrological Pla of the conca approved for a government, as I said, absolutely in function. Therefore, from the government it will continue to bet on regadius based on a premise of estalvi, of efficiency in use, in consumption. But also with water viewing as an essential and strategic resource for the economic development of our territory, always under sustainability criteria. And, moreover, in the specific case of the conca de l'Ebre, this is absolutely compatible with establishing a complete ecologic at the end of the river. Because we are against this plan, because it does not prioritise the modernization of the rivers, nor the improvement in the overall management of the resource, but what it does is put in danger the availability of water to ensure a complete ecological, while putting in danger the viability, the sustainability of the current kingdoms, those that we have been working long these years. And, of course, no problem, Mrs Grau, for the sake of the honourable Member, to take the necessary measures to ensure the administration in those places where there are problems with affected fish; of course, no problem. Therefore, for what it does to the defense of our river, action of government that I claim, that it has been firm, that it has been clear; it struggles, obviously, on the road; pedagogy, very much pedagogy of our country, and more politics before whom it wants to confuse us or face territorially, so that they will not achieve it. And, if the Government of the Generality and Parliament on various occasions we have manifested ourselves in this sense, today we will also manifest again with this young man, a young man whom we have agreed, as it cannot be otherwise, reaching agreement, because it is necessary to agree, and it is necessary to do so together. And with this also benefit to thank the chattering paper for having accepted our papers, from Mrs. Hortênsia Grau, once more, and so that we may have arrived at these transactions that have made it possible for us to vote in favour of this young man today. So, now, as I finished, and as I said to the beginning, this is a question of country, saving the Jew, saving the delta, and also making it compatible with these kingdoms of our country, it is a question of country, and in this we must go all together. Many thanks, President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.267.0	Next is the words of Mr. Francisco Javier Domínguez, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.268.0	Good afternoon, President. Counselors, deputies, good afternoon to all. First, I wanted to give thanks for the recognition of my company in Tarragona, Mrs Grau. And today I wanted to start my intervention, my first parliamentary intervention, with words that are not mine, that are not of any part of my party and that are not of any writer or literary; they are words of our advisor, our counselor of Territories and Sustainability, or of environment and sustainability, that are the following: "We are convinced that it is perfectly possible to reconcile the pretensions, the wills, with the uses related to water management, so if we start to generate a dynamic of confrontation between territories, we will not get out of it. We must be able to work together with other territories, setting common foundations for them. These words to me seem perfect to me, seriously. In Ciutadans we think exactly the same, exactly the same. We cannot tolerate the use of water as a bold weapon between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. We cannot tolerate the use of water to confront people and to divide Catalans who legitimately defend the preservation of natural and Catalan spaces that also legitimately defend wanting to water their farms. For, to avoid these clashes, there is a tool that is a very effective tool, a tool that puts all the administrations involved in eating at the same table, a tool in which communities of regents, environmental associations, electrics..., all agents participate. That tool, which has been very demonized lately, is called a ‘plan, a hydrological plan' – in general I mean, huh? It is a planning tool whose main objective is to protect water bodies and associated ecosystems. Well, if we want to guarantee natural spaces, established and consolidated uses, we need planning. Only in this way can we ensure compliance with European environmental rules, such as the water framework, the protection of habitats and birds, and others. A hydrological plan developed in a consensual manner by an entity such as the CHE, made up of all the actors involved, is the only way to plan with guarantees. Ciutadans, in view of the concern generated about the necessary ecological flows or any other technical issue, we always say the same thing: we have to focus the speech on the technical debate. And that is why we look forward to the report that the European Commission will present in March. And we will be looking forward to any requirements or corrections that need to be implemented to comply with environmental directives. And focusing on the motion on water policies, from Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, I wanted to comment that, first, Ciutadans, will vote in favour of all measures aimed at ensuring the sustainability of the natural spaces, ecosystems and uses of the river. Ciutadans will support all environmental and economic improvement initiatives linked to the river and its environment, ensuring compliance with European directives on water, habitats, birds and so on. Ciutadans will support any measures aimed at ensuring the supply of stocks, efficient uses and saving measures. Ciutadans will vote in favour of a drought management plan, prioritizing the ACA's actions and updating a water use plan that includes management, savings and efficiency. That is why we have tabled some amendments – some have been accepted, others have not – with the sole aim of being able to vote in favour and support as many points as possible. Because our goal is to ensure the preservation, both in quantity and in quality of the waters and ecological flows. But Ciutadans does not want to give up being able to implement modern and efficient irrigation and to support, in fact, the agricultural producers and the agri-food industry of our territory. Ciutadans we want a regulation of the Ebro and of the internal basins that guarantees the preservation of the natural environment, ensuring that the uses, irrigation, industry, supplies, do not compromise the sustainability of the ecosystems and the uses already consolidated. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.269.0	To fix his position, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.270.0	Thank you very much, President. Last week Josep-Lluís Carod-Rovira published an article to several media outlets entitled "Ebre and us. Someone will be surprised that this is the beginning of my intervention, but I think this article is perfect to define how far populism has reached the water debate. At one point in his article, Mr Carod-Rovira said: "Sense l'Ebre, the Catalans are not fully ours. A heel in Hebrew is a heel in Catalonia. The debate on water – it is clear – saw now two populisms: a nationalist populism and an ecological populism, which prevents a rational debate on the question. Nationalist populism is based on the premise that the Hebrew is only Catalans, when it is obvious that it passes through Cantàbria, Castella and Lleó, the Rioja, Basque Country, Navarre, Aragó; it would be an absurd reasoning as much as to say that the Volga belongs only to the Oblate of Astrakhan, which is one of the new regions through which it passes. The debate we have here, the debate we have in Catalonia, does not go away, it is an absurd debate and, therefore, we must put the first premise from the table: it is the truth. And I already know that the truth, sometimes, for some, is painful, but it has to be said: the Jew is of all Spaniards and the future of the Jew we have to decide among all Spaniards. That said, populism..., we talked about the nationalist..., then there is another populism that is the ecologist, and that starts from a statement, very emotional, that is that water is not coming and that, therefore, a new water culture falls. Okay. This phrase of "water is not dramatically contrasting with reality. It only covers the water bill every month or two months to see that the water is coming, and expensive, or going to the supermarket. But it seems that there is only one water in the world that can't be sold, that is the water of the Hebrew river, but, even so, this is also false, lied. The water of the Ebra came very often and, curiously, you and you came. The first time was at the end of the decade of the eighty, in the name of minitransmission, that of "mini in tenia poc; enough seventy populations of Tarragona, including the capital, and thirty Tarragonan industries, of which they are divided from the intense consumption of water. But, of course, as they approved Convergence and PSC, it was not transvasion, it was mini-transvasion. The second time was the Borrell pla, which also involved a transfer, which had a philosophy that we fully share: we must save the Ebre delta, but we must save the Ebre delta from a great national water pact: solidarity between territories. You save the delta, we share water: impeccable landing of Josep Borrell, a socialist català; unfortunately you already see that it is not fashionable between you its planting. The third time that the water was sold was in the so-called "network interconnection", another euphemism to talk about the same decree – certainly, but it is not a derogation – and that involves the water transfer to Barcelona, which started and started raining and was saved; but it is a transfer, it is not a network interconnection, it is said to be a transfer. And who did it? The tripartite, the Councillor of Initiative, Mr. Francesc Baltasar. Where was Mr. Carod-Rovira when the transfer was made to Barcelona? Where was the lady, with all the love that knows I have her, Hortênsia Grau, when was this transfer made? Shut up and move. I've been going through the hemeroteca: silent and mute. It is only manifest when the Popular Party is moving, when at the time of truth the only people who have passed water are you and the only people who have come to laugh are you. The Jewish Conca Plate is not a transfer and it came as if it were a transfer. You have nothing to see with what happened to the year 2002. Indeed, in 2002 the People's Party proposed a transfer inspired by the Borrell plan, but this is nothing to see, it wanted to sentimentalize the debate, as I explained earlier. We're talking rationality, and please? Do we possess from the rationalized table? The ecological cabal proposed by the Government of Spain is almost twice as much as that demanded by Mr.Artur Mas when he was a territorial policy adviser to the Government of Spain. And you know it's true, Mrs. Grau, and by the way you're saying yes, I'm celebrating it. Two: the full ecological is not a requirement of the Water Framework Directive, the socialist spokesman suggested it. He doesn't say, "No, he doesn't, he doesn't. It's a requirement of Spanish law, which is complete and all the feelings say it. In short, what we are living is a national water pact, with consensus, with dialogue, in the framework of the National Water Council. Here they have arranged seven autonomous communities, governed by parties of all kinds, of the left, of the dreets, of the more nationalists..., to seven autonomous communities. Catalonia has also had a significant recovery. The Regents of Lleida, the Regants of the Right Bank of the Lands of the Ebre. What's the matter, that they're thieves, that people, water, that they're traitors to the delta? They deserve respect, too. Therefore, we approach the debate of water with rationality, we accept once and for all that the future of the Ebra we decide between all the Spaniards, and, please, we finish this nonsense, that in the end what ends up provoking is, effectively, confrontations between territories, among those who think that the Ebra is theirs. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.271.0	Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.272.0	Thank you, President. I have to start by answering Mr. Alejandro, of the PP, because now they have this sort of fan-laying fashion, and every time they tell them something, in account accounts that they have made, fan, fan– fan. To see, listen, this plan, like the one you wanted to do in 2003, the one you approved in 2014 and the one you approved in 2015..., in 2014 the European Commission told them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't tell me no, Mr Santi Rodríguez, I will email you the document that the European Commission makes with the twenty-three recommendations that you say this is not right, and not only from the Ebro Conca Plate, the Basin Plan, the national, with the theme of the Tagus, with the topic of Security, with all the incompliments. You tell him that he's not rational about the sixty landings and the 300,000 ha of irrigation. And besides, you tell him that he didn't answer... that they didn't take into account the recommendations made to them by the commission, they didn't take into account. In particular, he went to the Committee on Petitions, which was why the visit was extended. Therefore, with the theme of the Hebrew, you, water, do not wander away giving lessons. You're talking about when the transfer, which was tried... yeah, of course, because there was one. First of all, the Water Framework Directive does speak of clean environment; it speaks of the proper maintenance of water in the river, and also... yes, there was one because there was a problem with water in the mouth, because the directive also says that the first is water in the mouth, and because in this country, for many years, the necessary infrastructures had not been made, which it would not have been right to do, because there have been girl breakers, and yet there would have been another, that of the Foix, which is not done. So I don't have to put the fan on us. You have a lot of work to do and not just with the Hebrew Hydrological Plate because there are other cons that have also been put against it for precisely this, for failure of the Mark Directive. For what he does to the rest of the items I just wanted to say that it's not about apriorities, it's about negotiating. You negotiate, Mrs Boya, we negotiate, and well, if... everyone negotiates to make it possible to move forward, to make it possible to move forward to what we believe in. I'm happy today with this young man we approved and, above all, I'll be happier with the compliment controls, who already know that I'm heavy and I think I'm really over it. So, I'm going to be loving that everything we've agreed on today, so I didn't stay in a statement of intent and that we complete it, and I'm going to ask them the questions they have. Thank you, all of you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.273.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Jordi Terrades and Santacreu ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.274.0	Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.275.0	For contradictions, Madam President – for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.276.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.277.0	Thank you, President. Remind Congresswoman Meritxell I asked that the hydrological plan approved for the government of Mr Aznar, enthusiastically collected for the government of Mr Pujol, was repealed, enthusiastically also for the government of Mr Zapatero. [[Crits of "Very good! And some applause. Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.278.0	Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.279.0	For allusions of the Lady Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.280.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.281.0	Thank you. Mrs. Grau, with all due respect: let's learn from you, not one. You were the ones who promoted the transfer of the Ebre to the comarques of Barcelona. And I'll tell him myself that I went to see how they were putting canonades to Cubelles to connect the Cuit mini-transmission to the Garraf area; first. Second: you left ACA and ATLL to ruin, and that's what we're paying Catalans now with the rates that they're pushing and that when you were ruling, you didn't dare push as you should have done. Three: in relation to the Third, you and an Initiative Advisor signed a decree to dry the Third, and to go under – go below – the ecological end of the Third. He signed an Initiative Advisor. I'll finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.282.0	Yeah, he's out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.283.0	The solution that you bring to the same is to go and preach to the Sea of God of Montserrat. For many years. [[Greetings. Meritxell Roigé and Pedrola ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.284.0	Meritxell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.285.0	Thank you, President. To answer for allusions to Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.286.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.287.0	To tell him, with all the « dear one, that he wanted to make the transfer but that he had girls the stakes and laid the stakes was a government presided over by Mr Montilla, socialist. And that the document that the People's Party has taken to approval is that document that the Socialist Party left absolutely written, the cent_per_cent written, and that did not end up approving, but that it had written and left it prepared because then the People's Party did it. Therefore, the Socialist Party took the lead. [[Hortênsia Grau Juan asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.288.0	Mrs. Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.289.0	Direct references. Mr Santi Rodriguez, look, we've discussed this subject forty times here. I'm just saying, in 2003, a PP government attempted a transfer that it was able to put up with. We're gonna have a hard time at all. On the issue of ATLL's debt, he already knows, by active and passive, what this government has found. And, therefore, for a lot of us to say lies like that of the Third One and another time they don't end up being true. So, it's the same, it's not about the pim-pam-pum. Today we have approved a good young lady, we continue to push her forward. And you, I hope you don't rule because we can really pull forward and we don't have Jewish Conca Plate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.290.0	Does anyone ask for a separate vote from any point? [[Pause. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.291.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.292.0	Yes, we ask for separate votes from points 1 to 5, 6, 10, 14 and 22.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.293.0	"From 1 to 5 vol. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.294.0	You can vote them all together for us, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.295.0	Ah, all right. So, anyway, if no one objects, let's start voting 1-5. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. [[Long break.]] They were approved by 97 votes in favour and 35 against. Next, we'll vote on point 6. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 11, with 24 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 10th. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 11, with 24 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 14th. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 35, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 22. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 35, with no abstentions. And then, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 11, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into solidarity, equality and union among all Spaniards]] [[302-00006/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on solidarity, equality and unity among all Spaniards, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo. [[Widow's remorse.]] I nail them to silence. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.296.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Well, someone laughs at the title of this young man, now, coming down from the escho, but fixed 'which is such a revolutionary issue as defending equality, solidarity and union of all the citizens of a country; a topic that is very normal in the United States, for example, or in France, or other civilised nations and come to defend equality, solidarity and union, so I can't imagine these parliaments making this joke. Well, the motion we are tabling today is part of a very easy question, which I believe has an easy answer. And it is: are all Members of this Parliament in agreement that we all have to be equal before the law? I think we should be. How do we tell people, how do we tell citizens that politicians are above the law and that they do not have to comply with the law? They do have to fulfill the, and we don't. Well, the laws can be changed, of course. In a democracy, laws can be changed when we want to. In other parts of the world, no; in other political systems, laws cannot be changed. In Spain, they can be changed, and in Catalonia, of course they can be changed. What can't be done is that when we don't like a law, we skip it. We're leaving, we're fighting each other and we don't come to any conclusions. Look, we in this Parliament have lost a lot of votes, a lot of votes. We are in the opposition, we have no majority, and many times on the screen our vote appears in red. But we do not leave, we do not break up with everything or say that we want to separate from Catalonia; we continue to work, because in democracy you can win and you can lose, but what you can never do in democracy is to throw away the towel, to throw away the political towel. And there are some who have thrown out the political towel and we do not want to throw out the political towel, but quite the contrary, we want to reform Spain and reform Catalonia, of course, and change the one. This motion speaks, of course, of reforms, of reforms in which the Catalans want to participate in the front line and the whole of this country. We don't want to throw the towel, as I said before, and there are things that don't work in Spain, I agree. Many times, from the separatist sectors, there is talk that, well, there are things that are embarrassing and that need to be changed. I agree with you, I too want to be independent of the People's Party and the Socialist Party in many of the things they do. Of course. But what is the solution? Is breaking Spain's solution? Did we break it all? What if we change the country? What if we reform it? Is it not easier to reform a country and change what to build a new one? Ask yourself this question. We, of course, are going to try, and it's not bad for us. We too were born in Catalonia and are now in the Congress of Deputies being the party of Catalan origin with more deputies in the history of Spanish democracy. And we're going to try and reform this country. It speaks of solidarity also this motion that we present today, because solidarity is a moral concept, it is not a political concept, it is not an economic concept, it is not an identity concept. People have to be supportive and in the end in the territories, when talking about Andalusia, Valencia, Madrid, Navarra, Basque, are territories where there are people – people. And when one says that the others steal you, you're not saying that Valencia, that Andalusia steals. You're telling your friends, or your family, your relatives, that they're stealing from you, and that's very serious. That is why this motion seeks to ensure that all Members of this Parliament, at least, can agree that we must be supportive. We're gonna try. And finally, we talk about union. Great nations when united are able to do extraordinary things. On the other hand, when politicians add problems to the problems that we already have many citizens, we certainly cannot make progress. The Catalans have always been protagonists of Spain's most important reforms and we want to launch this message that we reflect in this motion today, and we would like the Government of the Generalitat to do the same, as has been done on other occasions. The citizens also told us on 27 September to work once and for all to solve the real problems. Most of the citizens told us. We respect, of course, the parliamentary majority, but you also respect the social majority. They respect most of what has been said on the street. Who can be against these concepts? Who can be against equality, solidarity and union? I would like this motion to serve, above and beyond differences, so that Members of this Parliament, over and above our political, ideological differences, I insist that we agree on the pillars, on the pillars of democracy, on the pillars that make the great nations move forward, and that is the purpose of this motion. The goal is not to cross, the goal is not to divide, I assure you, the goal is to try to agree on those points, on those aspects, as I said, which are solidarity, equality and union, which are the most important values of modern democracies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.297.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.298.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, well, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans presents to us a motion which, let us say briefly, reminds us of the content of Article 2, 9 and 14 of the Constitution, the principle of subordination of public powers to the rule of law; it reminds us of the importance of the relevancy of the constitutionality bloc, the fact that it has given rise to a territorial system with a remarkable level of self-government and, in other words, that it is possible to reform it. Well, let's face it, it's hard to be against a mere finding, I have to tell you this, because, in the background, what is done is to see what the constitutional texts say. What we've done is present a series of papers. It was not possible to agree on all of them. They have allowed us to make a deal respecting one aspect, let's say, relatively less than point 3 and that is why at this point 3 of us will vote in favour, in contrast to this gesture. But for what it does to the rest, let's just say that, even if we don't object to it, because we see the contents of the Constitution, so let's just say, it's hard to be against it, as I said, they don't pretend to support it either, because I don't know if we don't understand what they're trying to do, or we understand it very well. Why do you want to do a firm gesture? Well, I'm not counting on us, let's just say, for a policy of gestures only. On the farm I'll make it one more sic forward. Is it simply intended to draw up a line, to delimit the land between a 'we' and a 'they'? I'm not counting on us for a bloc or front policy either. Why, what's she bringing, her young lady? Admonition? Warning? The permanent reminder of the constitutional texts? Yes, but all this without making a sincere effort to understand the reasons of others, of those to whom they fight politically, without making a sincere effort to escape who are the objective reasons underlying the political situation in which we find ourselves, without proving to be exhausted, to point out, or that there is at least a possible solution to these questions which are, as I say, underlying in the current political situation, therefore seems to be a little productive. We have come to the conviction that in order to confront the independenceist political project there is not enough to design a bloc policy, to delimit the land, to say that things cannot be done, but to present a political alternative that attacks, to face the main problems that may have led many of our fellow citizens to believe that there is no other solution than to break or secession. We don't share it; it's a political project we don't share. And less yet we share the full route that the independence groups here are trying hard to end in these months. We have said this more than once and we will say again: it has been used, often, in the Catalan political debate, the euphemism of jumping the wall, presenting, certainly, of the past, Spain and the conjunction of the Spaniards as an insurmountable wall that is unable to change, etcetera. We believe that, while it is legitimate that some people want to bring the country into an independent state, which is not legitimate and cannot be based on the results of the elections that have given place to this Parliament, it is intended to do so by completely ignoring the framework of coexistence, the norms that we have given ourselves among all, and also by ignoring the social, political, almost, say, sociological, reality of the country. Because some, maybe, will skip the wall, yeah. But they will find that there will be a good part of the citizens of Catalonia who have not done it, who do not want to do it, and then there will be a wall that separates us. And I repeat, and I repeat on behalf of the Socialist Group, there will then be a pair that separates us, and this should not be wanted by any good ruler of the country, have the political project that I have. And here's where I was talking to her about the farm issue. Miri, Mr De Páramo, his firm equivalency in determining, at least in appearance, the basic parliamentary target groups of his young man. Therefore, this is due to an absolute impotence trap. I'm also telling the guy they're trying to jump the wall for. There's not enough consent to do that. Therefore, we propose, modestly, to explore the possibility of political projects collected for the citizen and citizens of Catalonia, better able to generate consensus based on going analyzing and facing one by one the problems that exist, which have led many Catalans to believe that it is better to pull for the right, wrongly, as I said. And so what we're doing, Mr. De Páramo, is not giving support to the rest of the points of your motion and inviting it, let's say, from the back, to this reflection that you asked together of the deputies and the deputies. Let's think about all the folds, because if we don't, we'll be a lot of years in this empire of impotence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.299.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.300.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we share with you your concern for equality and solidarity, and from here everything else is discrepancy. Discrepancy in the natural and the origins and causes of this inequality, and the necessary measures to address it. Discrepancy, too, with their reading of the social and political situation in Catalonia and the results of 27 September – they have certainly forgotten the results of 20 December. The inequality – it is obvious – is growing, in Catalonia and Spain, which, by the way, in this sense gathers very much, but neither the causes of these inequalities assemble to the model, they have to see the territorial model, nor the self-government; they have to see very much – much to see – the social model. The inequality in Catalonia and Spain is not territorial natural, does not have a territorial key, does not have a territorial risk; it is social, it is classy. Certainly, the next time you want to set an example of how a country fights for equality, please don't put us in the United States; I want to remind you that you have 40_million people who don't have access to healthcare. Certainly, speaking of healthcare, what makes the Spanish citizens unequal in access to salvation is not whether they are Catalan or Andalusian, so, in general, only to which class they belong. For example, if they live in certain barrels of Barcelona, if they live in the Arenas of Terrassa or in Matadepera, two mons separated only by a laugh, they have profoundly different life expectations. Certainly, what makes the citizens different and the citizens unequal is, for example, how they have to deal with the issue of waiting lists: while some people see it dramatically, others see the economic possibility of jumping these waiting lists through something that for a long time has been propitious to some government in Catalonia – the former, concretely – which is private insurance. It is not surprising that political forces which are apparently confronted with some things, concretely in the political and territorial order model of the State, turn out to be fully coincident in economic and social policies and their social model. I refer, for example, to Ciutadans and Convergence Democrática de Catalunya. They coincide, for example, in the European Union's fiscal stabilisation pact; they coincide, for example, in the resurgence of approved labour reforms, and in an attempt to make them deeper, from this point of view. It is curious, because, in the background, what separates you is an attempt to confront certain conceptions of the territorial model of the State, but what unites them deeply is the same concept of society. Catalunya Yes, it's Pot won't vote for his wife, not just for what you say, but for whom he ignores and, if he's allowed, respectfully, for whom he's trying to manipulate. If we thought that the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State could be resolved through a youth, then we would most likely have presented papers. And our views could say something like this, as an alternative element, for example: "The Catalonian Parliament recalls that Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution – reformed at night – "and the policies of presuppositionary stabilization of the harsh adjustment of social spending are causing great inequalities and imply a break in solidarity between people. The Catalonian Parliament states that the electoral results of 27 September and 20 December confirm the existence of a large majority of Catalan society that considers the current autonomous model to be exhausted and demands, in different formulations, to extend Catalonia's right of self-government. The Catalonian Parliament notes that no one can establish it is legitimate to prevent the right of a citizen such as Catalan to decide her future in a democratic way; on the contrary, she is obliged to guarantee her exercise. The Catalonian Parliament emphasises that the Spanish Constitution is not a militant constitution, and that it must allow us all the necessary reforms, and that all political options, all of them, and even all of independence, have their head, without limits. The Catalan Parliament points out that Catalonia's citizens cannot exercise the right to decide and reform the forms of coexistence for a immobilism that stifles democracy that practices certain political parties. The Catalonian Parliament notes that immobilism and unilateralism are two opposite options but end up coinciding in one element, which is: they prevent the exercise of the right to decide, one because the denial and the other because the donation is for depreciation. And, lastly, the Parliament of Catalonia calls on all political forces to participate responsibly and actively in the configuration of a process constitute the basis for a new socio-economic model. And you will ask me, "Why didn't you submit these papers? See if they had any writings, it was easy. So, because we don't want to play the game and because, unfortunately, a problem as important as what we have today posed is not solved with a young cheater. Solidarity between citizens, yes; equality, too; but not in its own way: class equality, social equality, equality between citizens, but not from the immobilism that you practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.301.0	The words "Mrs. Andrea Levy", of the People's Party, follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.302.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proponent of this initiative said that it was revolutionary because it was done here, in this parliamentary seat in Catalonia. The truth is that, in the end, we are going to coin that phrase of "Catalonia is different, because the truth is that common sense here, in Catalonia, is going to end up looking like the least common of senses. And today we come here to defend..., not to defend, because the defense of the principles you list in your motion – equality, solidarity, coexistence – defend themselves with the rule of law, defend themselves with our Constitution. Today we come to remind them – we come to remind some of them – that what they rightly claim with their attitudes is the demolition of these very fundamental principles. Today we saw it, for example, with that purported foreign minister. But as much as some of you claim to be just that demolition of our Spanish democracy, be assured that Spanish democracy is strong enough, and, of course, much more than all your claims to be that irredent people in which you dream. And, therefore, his fantasies will remain in the ethereal and Spanish democracy, of course, will be much stronger than all his "embistes". But look at something I'd like to think about. Since today the President of the Generalitat has opened the fence so that we can quote football players in this parliamentary chamber, I too would like to quote Gerard Piqué here. (Founding voice) Today Gerard Piqué... Man, "poor, no; Piqué is of all, isn't it? , too. (Laughter and background voices.) Today Gerard Piqué, in an interview, says... listen to me you're going to like what I'm going to say. Today Gerard Piqué in an interview says: « I am playing with Spain because right now I am Spanish. (Founding voice) And look... But listen to me, counselor, a little education – education, too, which is yours –, listen to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.303.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.304.0	« I play in Spain because right now I am Spanish. And make sure that this holder has opened a discrepancy, has opened a controversy between those who accuse you on this side of the holder of saying 'right now, like you, and those who accuse you of 'I am Spanish, like you too, fix it. And you believe that, as a political generation – and, by the way, as a ‘political generation I mean everyone, let us be as old as we are, let us who are here in this parliamentary seat represent a political generation – must we leave this country? , this country that is facing our feelings, our principles? Is that the policy we really want? No, no, Look, I think those of us in politics are to build, we are to work, to create coexistence, to create equality, to create solidarity. These are the constitutional principles by which we are, by the way, in this Parliament. If there had not been a generation defending equality, defending solidarity, defending that democracy... But what do you think this Parliament built, if not? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.305.0	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.306.0	Just those democratic principles... – of which you are going to teach me. Look, I know, I'll tell you one thing. I, as a liberal, cannot be a nationalist, because nationalism is precisely the oppression of the individual, making him think the same, wanting to standardize him in a people, in a language, in wanting to be all the same. But do you know what's going on? , that the problem is that you think you're not the same as all the nationalists who have failed in history; you think you're better than those nationalisms. But do you know what's going on? , which, like all nationalisms, history will judge them, democracy will never protect them and society will end up turning its back on them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.307.0	Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.308.0	Madam President... First of all it is my duty to make a statement that I did not have prepared but that, before the historical ignorance, gigant, immense, on which some more pretend to make the fatxenda, will touch that of others, with humility, we remember that the institutions of this country of self-government do not recover with the Constitution, that they have recovered before! [[Greetings.]] They owe nothing to the Constitution, nothing to us! Study history, Mrs. Levy! And, going back to the subject of the youth, which is the title..., which carries by title "solidarity, equality and unity among all Spaniards, but I would like to make it clear that about solidarity and equality, so obviously they are ideas or concepts that we can share, we do not have any drawback; surely we understand them very differently from those who understand Citizens. But I must say, in principle, that we are surprised to have to discuss when it comes to solidarity and equality, in the title of this young man, and the union of Spaniards. And I do have to explain the motive of our surprise above all to make it clear..., and here I am answering other times Mrs. Levy, in the sense that we are not Spaniards. I, Mrs Levy, am not Spanish. And to my army, to the constitutional court, to the law, to the king imposed for Franco, he will not tell me or impose what I am or what I cease to be. And I'm not Spanish. Therefore, this motion on solidarity and equality between the Spaniards... is very good that the Spaniards are discussing this question of solidarity and equality, but, indeed, this Parliament is a question that is frankly alien to it. But in any case, I will focus on the nucleus of your young man, because we do want to discuss in this forum a fallacy ad nauseaam that unionism constantly repeats, don't we? And it's the question of the social majority. And we need to discuss it because the electoral data that they carried on September 27 make it very clear– and we will repeat it too, let us say, in this answer to this fallacy, that you claim, based on repeating a lie, that it is converted into truth, but the results are there– that you, unionism– PSC, Ciutadans, PP – did not get a 52_per_cent of the vote. Stop talking about the social majority, because you didn't get a 52_per_cent. [[Greetings.]] You actually got a 39,17_per_cent, which is less than 39.54_per_cent that went together for the Yes and that, if we add up the CUP, we get up to 47,7_per_cent. Therefore, in plebiscitaris terms, we have a 39 versus a 47_per_cent; therefore, we are not talking about the social majority, because the social majority in this country is very clear. And don't join the 52_per_cent Catalunya Yes that's Pot, because Catalunya Yes that's Can abstained in the plebiscite, and because even in some circumstances, like my own, some candidates came to plant that they were independent. Therefore, it would be a fraud that you account for Catalonia Yes that it is Pot in the unionist bloc; not only Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, but other parties that have not even obtained representation in this chamber, such as the PACMA, which won forty_ thousand votes. And when you add 52_per_cent, you add the PACMA votes to the no stand, and the Animalist Party has not added to the no – it has not added to the no. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, I stop cheating on the lonely, that the social majority of this country is very clear. The social majority of this country – and I am not interrupting, please – has more in the external vote another representation that you never quote. In the Catalan economic exile, the people who have had to leave this country because of the economic conditions that the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, which alternate to the Spanish State – certainly, the Socialist Party and the People's Party get on September 27th less than 25_percent of the votes in the electoral contest, less than one_quarta_part, concretely a 21,24_percent–..., but in the Catalan economic exile do they know how much Juntas vote for the Yes with the votes of the CUP? – don't ever give it, you, this given, never give it. Up to 63,7_per_cent, this social majority favors independence. Therefore, I stop cheating on us, I stop building faults with nausea and I start participating in this process, which obviously this social majority together with the majority of Parliament we represent will pull forward; we will pull forward with laws, we will pull forward with a new institutionality, with a new legality, in which I insist that, if we finally have a constitution, it will not be a constitution made by seven men smoking pure sounds of soap... without kings imposed by dictators and above all without laws to be obeyed by. We will also put it through history, because the laws that we will build in this country will be the result of the consensus and assumed by conviction. Therefore, we open this process, we raise the Catalan republic and, also, in the record of Muriel Casals, we build this republic. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.309.0	Next, has the word Lord Lluís Llach, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.310.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Honorable Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Members, Members, Members, Today is a busy day to be behind this Faristol. Surely, more than opposing options and opinions, it would be a good day to make us smile, to look right at the eyes like she did and to seek complicity, because they were fragile, that we could come along, at least today, in the nostalgia of Muriel. Also, this old Parliament must continue to delude itself as our present and as we plan our coming. So I take my responsibility and already announce that the majority group representing Junts per el Si will not vote in favour of any such motion presented for the Ciutadans Group. Mr De Páramo, in the elaboration of your speeches, you usually take in universal values, accepted by everyone; then pervert your semantics, explain the meaning to your convenience and, finally, proclaim, with an uncomplicated daring, your particular conclusions between the Members, Members and TV cameras of this Parliament let us see if anyone believes it. For today's occasion, you have distorted the semantics of some broad concepts, such as equality, solidarity, democratic legitimacy. They don't just sit there. Moreover, both in the previous question and in this motion, you have presented us with very curious accounts on the majority and minority of this Parliament, oblivious to a very important detail, and it is that you have never won an election, never, and not on 27 September, either. But this fact does not prevent them from speaking presumptuously in the name of a strange majority who, surely, must be that silent majority who, precisely, was definitively buried by the massive votes of 27 September forever more, amen. The Catalan Language Dictionary defines solidarity with the following wording: "Relationship of brotherhood, companionship, mutual support that binds the various members of a community or collectivity in the sense of belonging to the same group and in the consciousness of common interests. Many of the Catalans have to make the way for this frat relationship on a train from Rodalies, because when after bewitched and tortuous journeys we arrive at the station of the reciprocal sustainably, you are not there, and the Spanish that defend, neither. They're not here or they've ever been there. And when the fraternity doesn't have anyone to share it with, the company doesn't know who to enjoy it with and the only thing we remember is to support it in order not to amend it, it's clear that you and we don't use the same dictionary, we don't do the same trip and, above all, we don't go to the same destination or the future. The dictionary ends up talking about the feeling of belonging to the same group and in the consciousness of common interests. Look, everyone knows, assumes and suffers from their sense of belonging, and I want to assure them that we will respect and defend any sense of belonging, as if it were appropriate. But when it comes to the common interests, you force me to remember some simply scandalous data, such as the false and alleged fiscal deficit, which exceeds 15,000_millions each year, or that we contribute 19.2 of our GDP and falls on 14th, or that the assumption dedicated to our Rodalies trains has only been executed on 7_per_cent– 7_per_cent; in Madrid, 100_per_cent, but is not envious–, or that in order to co-ordinate and stop its Spanish with Ruinous AVEs and other raids, it is margining the most profitable line of the State, such as the Mediterranean Corridor, or that the Government and the Constitutional Court convulsively block the laws that would allow us to act better towards social needs. Not to mention the Law of Dependency, or the ethical, political perversion that the FLA means, or that since 2009 the State has reduced its investment in Catalonia by 71_per_cent, and in culture, there! In a 41_per_cent, more and more – no goals. With fraternity, company and mutual support that Spain offers us, or, rather, the Spanish State. I'm done, Madam President. Do you know what's going on? When you talk about solidary Spain, as you think and so do, we end up. When you talk to us about the autonomous Catalonia project for which you Frisian, we join. And when, in order to be different from other groups in Parliament who defend the same as you with more revealed forms, you promise us reforms, reforms and more reforms, we land. Fortunately, when we stop listening to them and open our eyes to look between the walls of this Parliament, we come back to reality, and the reality is that the ballot boxes have given us the absolute majority and democratic legitimacy to give our country the time of a new, fairer, fairer and free state. And we are determined that this future that we are building is, as the poet said, a luminous horizon and possible. Amen. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.311.0	Next is the words of Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.312.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. It's a pleasure to have a poet like you in the Parliament of Catalonia – with all colors – but you lie like your companions. You say it with good words, it's very nice, and I recognize your trajectory and admiration, but you said clearly, that those who don't win the elections, so they can't do politics. So, yeah, look, we can do politics, too. We haven't won any elections yet, we'll win them some day, I hope; so much good we'll win them some day. And we will continue to work, we will not do with you; we will not fill the tablecloth, we will continue, we will continue to work. And in order to try to answer all the speeches of the comrades, first of all, to start with the Socialist Party and Mr Pedret, I would ask you please not to have complexes, not to be constantly justified. They are the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, the Socialist Party of Catalonia. Do not constantly justify yourself and be brave. You're right, they're very obvious subjects. We have remembered articles... If I tell you the truth I have not had to be as creative as Mr Lluís Llach, it has been much easier, but I also say to him: obvious issues that must be constantly remembered in this Parliament, unfortunately. I wish we did not have to remember those and we could do policy on social issues, on equality issues, on economic issues, but unfortunately we have to come to this Parliament to remember that, and we would like the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party to agree with these proposals. In any case, it is a decision of you not to participate in the whole presentation. And, gentlemen of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, I also trusted – I trusted – that those who call themselves "new" would participate in the reforms of Spain, but we see no. You prefer to say that this is a trap; recognizing equality, solidarity and union is a trap proposal. For, look, you who call yourselves left-wing, who cannot say that union, equality and solidarity is an important issue and attribute it to a trap... You said that the problem of independence was not solved by a motion. I agree, of course. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I agree. But something – something – we will have to do politicians. Of course we will make motions, parliamentary work, among other things because they pay us the salary to do so, but, I don't know, perhaps you can think of another way to put an end to the Catalan problem. The leader of his party, Pablo Iglesias, said that eight Basque surnames had to be seen. I don't know if you're going to bring some motion or proposal something more interesting and deeper than the one you've made fellow members of your party. I would ask you – well, I would ask you, no, I would ask you humbly – to make amendments, to participate, to dialogue, to talk, to reach agreements. We have the hand extended, as we have also shown, with Podemos also in other parts of Spain where we have reached agreements on political regeneration and on the fight against corruption, where I am sure we can reach agreements. There has been a very harsh atmosphere in this motion by some Members. I did not try that with this motion, but quite the contrary, I said it at first, and I hoped it would be an atmosphere of dialogue and not an atmosphere of discussion. And finally, to the gentlemen of the UPC, simply Mr Baños, who until recently was the leader of his party or of this parliamentary group, said they lost the plebiscite. Talk to him, clarify yourself first in his party and then come here to Parliament, and tell us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.313.0	Mr. Coscubila, do you ask for the word? [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.314.0	It's the two; it's the PP and the Ciutadans, it's the two. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Levy, before we had to endure Mr. Santiago Rodríguez giving lessons in transfer, after you giving lessons in equality, you, the ones of labor reform. Then, they gave us lessons from how to fight for democracy, you, that we had to take the democracy out of your hands, to you and to your ancestors. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.315.0	I'm sorry, it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.316.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.317.0	...it's just that we don't have to learn how to fight corruption. The only thing you can give us is nationalism; imperial nationalism and exclusion. With another tot. Mr. Paramo, you didn't listen to me. Protection of equality, all; of solidarity, also; but not by his way. And, above all, one thing: neither independence is a disease, nor català is a problem. There is no illness of independence, nor is there the Catalan problem. I think we have a very clear conflict problem between Catalonia and the Spanish State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.318.0	Mr. Coscubiela, it seems to me that already...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.319.0	...that we have to approach politically. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.320.0	...north, seconds. [[Benet Salellas and Vilar ask to speak.]] Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.321.0	To clarify the allusion in two aspects, in relation to the company Bathrooms. First of all, I know that we come from very different political cultures, but I think it would be good for each one of you to try to know the contract, to say the least. We... there are no leaders at the CUP. I mean, that Antonio Baños was the leader of the CUP... if you're talking about leaders, you don't understand how we work. But in any case, let him make it clear that what we said on September 28 was that we had not exceeded 50_percent of votes that allowed us to make a unilateral declaration of independence on September 28. And that's what we said. But never, ever, have we ever said that we do not have the social and parliamentary majority enough to push the construction of the republic forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.322.0	Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.323.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.324.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.325.0	Thank you, President. Mr. De Páramo, I say not to psychoanalytize us or, at least, I exhibited the qualification to be able to do it. Because we don't have any kind of complex; what we have is a political project different from its, and what we've done is, very politely, to cry it out to reflection on the fact that constantly remember, warn, admonition about the content of the Constitution and the State is not politically fruitful at all. And I think that, seeing the interventions of those to whom his young lady was destined, it's what we say. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.326.0	Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.327.0	Yes, by allusions, Madam President. [[Pause.]] Very quickly, not to waste more time. I can't let you, Mr. Coscubala, say that I said that nationalism is a disease. That I can't afford because I never said that, nor will I. So, I would appreciate it, in this Parliament, that you either apologize or withdraw that statement. I don't know if you're making a sentence quoting a person, but I've never said that in this Parliament and I'll never say that. And then, to Mr Pedret, I did not do psychoanalyse or did not do psychology, I only enunciated the letters of his party: the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That's not psychoanalyzing, that's explaining the lyrics that make up your party. Maybe you don't know which party you're in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.328.0	Ms. Levy, why did you ask me for the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.329.0	Yeah. Miri, Mr. Coscubiela, lessons of democracy, no, on your side of the wall, of democracy neither was there, eh? I mean, we learn about democracy, I can tell you not one. I, in fi, what... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...that today we have come to defend in this young man, by luck, we have passed all the dictatorships, including that of you on the other side of the wall. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-02-17-0901.330.0	A separate vote was requested from point 3. Is there any other vote, any other points that you want to vote for separately? [[Pause.]] All right, then. We'll start voting for point 3. The vote begins. It was rejected by 50 votes in favour, 74 against and 3 abstentions. Now, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was rejected by 35 votes to 80, with 16 abstentions. Thank you all very much. The session's up.
