ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-28-2201.1.0	The session begins. Very nice late. Welcome and welcome to this new session. I would like to greet on behalf of the House the representatives, ex-advisors, ex- MPs and authorities who are accompanying us today. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting this plenary session, I must inform you that, unfortunately, on September 15th, a woman died as a result of male violence in Slugges de Llobregat. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is the fourth death victim of this year for male violence in Catalonia. We deeply regret these deaths and reiterate the commitment of Parliament and the Government of Catalonia to eradicate violence. [[Confidence question from the President of the Generality]] [[204,000,0001/11]] The only item on the agenda of this plenary session is the debate and the vote on the question of trust of the very honorable Mr Carles Puigdemont, President of the Government of Catalonia. The President of the Generality communicated on the 6th of September the decision to raise the question of trust in the terms that will be read by Secretary David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-28-2201.2.0	Thank you, Madam President. This letter says: "Blessed President, in accordance with Articles 12.1 and 44 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November, of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and with Article 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, I inform you that, with the prior deliberation of the Government, I have decided to raise a question of confidence in the terms I set out at the session of the Parliament of 8 June 2016 and to request that the debate continue on 28 September 2016. Well, cordially.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-28-2201.3.0	In accordance with Rule 150.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate shall be conducted in accordance with the procedure established for the investiture debate, and shall therefore begin with the intervention of the President of the Generality. The very honorable Mr. Carles Puigdemont has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-28-2201.4.0	Many honourable President of Parliament, Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Councillors and Councillors, illustrious Members and Members, President Mas, President Benach, President Rigol, President De Gispert, members of the Government, former Councillors, Lords and Lords, as the President of the Parliament has said, let us start the political course and the parliamentary session, in this case in a rare manner. In fact, in an unpublished way. It is unprecedented that there is a question of trust, but it is precisely, as the secretary of the Bureau read, which I asked and which I announced on June 8th in this same room before all of you. We are in the middle of the legislature, and everything that has preceded us so far emphasizes the exceptional nature of the period of imprisonment in our country today a year and a day ago, when 2_million Catalans voted in favour of Catalonia becoming an independent state. It is exceptional for the same September 27th, where there is a plebiscite mandate, where there is a unity effort without precedent, where there is a record participation in our country and where there is an expression of the plurality of Catalonia, which, with very different and distant political positions, is reflected in a Parliament where, if you want, you can listen to everyone's voice. It is exceptional for an investiture at the last moment of an unforeseeable candidate, the result of a pact that committed the signing parties to undertake a legislature with the guarantee of parliamentary stability necessary to complete the mandate of the ballot boxes. The majority candidate took a step to the side and the minority group falsified it. It is exceptional for an unconventional term legislature and adjusted to those divisions that all of you know. It is also exceptional for the resumption of the processing of the five-month assumptions after the start of the mandate, with the breach of the stability commitment that this fact entailed, and therefore the risk would be to find us with a government without the initial support, and therefore an unfeasible government. And, finally, it is exceptional for the consideration, for the first time in the history of our Parliament, of a question of trust, to which I submit as President of the Generality. All of this in a year before the elections and in less than nine months since the start of the legislature. It's not bad. With this brief inventory, I assure you that it could be more complete if we went into detail, and it doesn't matter, we could agree that we have already covered with the recommensurable dose of exceptions and that until here we have arrived, and that we may be in the place of a question of confidence better than we have gone directly to elections. I'm not saying this can't happen, and we'll see about it tomorrow, and I'm sure I'll feel more like it, if I don't miss the forecast. They don't want to take advantage of the opportunity, with all the legitimacy, that you make it clear, because we're running through the legislature and going to some elections, or they might want to take advantage of it to send to the history paper a process that four days ago has again demonstrated, to the surprise of some, their enormous ability to mobilize. I am telling you that I am not surprised by any scenes that come out of this Parliament, because it will be the reflection of the citizen's will, and, as such, it will have to be respected without any hint of drama. If the Parliament takes my confidence away from me tomorrow, it will be necessary to select another president or president, or, otherwise, in the event that no one is invested, nine elections will be called. But if most of this Parliament gives me the confidence that I will ask you for tomorrow, then it must be equally respected with the same democratic attitude on the part of those who would have preferred another decision. No decision, neither one nor the other, has no legitimacy, nor any less. I insist that you be clear and no one has any doubts about it, bearing in mind the transcendence of the debate we have – which we have –: I come to demand confidence and ready to take on the consequences of Parliament's decision. The question of trust is a democratic mechanism envisaged in situations such as the present one that brings us to the temporality of the tasks and above all – and above all – to the pre-eminent authority that have parliaments in all society that wants to hold back the values of democracy on its foundational basis. And if someone, in this case I, does not count on the confidence of the chamber, assume the consequences without a toilet. And if it turns out that the decision is the counter, then they also need to assume the consequences and act in a consistent manner to this mandate. I, of course, will try today to convince – today and tomorrow – the majority of Members and Members to move on; I will try to explain why I think we need to move from exceptionality to exceptionality until final normality and why I ask Parliament to give me the confidence necessary to successfully complete this transition to definitive normality in the most effective way, which I mean in the way we end up gaining the confidence of the citizens when we quote them before the polls. In fact, today, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals that we start a chain of confidence; a chain of confidence that does not end with the vote tomorrow, but continues until Catalonia becomes an independent state of law. Rather than offering them to trust me, I would suggest that we trust us. A chain of trusts that involves everyone, that does not exclosure anyone and that does not dispense with anyone; shared trusts that each day will be strengthened and that are essential to make it credible, to the eyes of our citizens, first, and to the eyes of the world, then, that we are in fact, that we are decided and that we will spare no effort to achieve it; efforts to go together, as it was a year ago, and to continue together in all and each of the strands that we have identified by July, when the legislature ended. I'm sure in this chain of trust we all have to do more than we've done until now if we want to keep it and we want to strengthen it, and we want to keep it alive. Personally, I am committed to working with major complicity and coordination with those groups and Members who are still giving me the confidence I feel it is essential to have until the end of the term of office. Before I expose them to the reasons for which I will ask for their support, I believe that I am obliged to remember them as we arrived at this point and to refresh the memory of the reasons for which we arrived today to hold the first debate on a question of confidence in the history of this Parliament. As you know, the government that presides, the government of Juntes per el Si, does not have an investment session held last month in which it exposes itself and approves, with an absolute majority of seventy Members, a government program; a government program that is the implementation and development of Juntes per el Si, which also provides for a compromise to set aside a social shoal, negotiated during the months prior to the investiture, between Juntes per el Si and the CUP - Cree Constituent, and which also responds to a very clear mandate from the ballot box, reflected in a majority of seventy-two Members of Parliament, to bring this country to the door of an independent state. I'd like to go over, very briefly, what were the, what are they, in fact, the axes of this program approved the past 10 generation, now almost new months ago. First, move forward in building a country that is fairer, fairer, healthier, safer and more worshipable. Second, consolidate the country's economic recovery and get it to be more employment, more stable and more quality. Third, to make Catalonia a country of high democratic quality, a reference in transparency and participation. Fourth, and in relation to Catalonia's construction process as in the state, to complete the process in the civic and associative participative phase, to design definitively the state structures and their setting up, to process in Parliament the basic laws of the process and to complete the internationalization of the construction process and the constitution of the independent Catalan state. These are the basic axes that conform and guide the action of this government. As soon as I go, I will brush up on the main absolved strands, but it will, of course, be as you all know and I have had occasion to talk to some of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, in the own general policy debate, of the week you see, where we can go into detail and debate enough around the actions that stand in these axes. But now I want to make it clear to you that these basic lines of the government program established in the investment debate have never been put into question. And in a special way I would like to point out that at the moment there has not been any question or doubt about the parliamentary mandate to prepare Catalonia for becoming an independent state. Now, even though neither the democratic mandate emanating from the ballot box nor the government program has been questioned – and that is why we are here today and that is why we do not start the political course with the general policy debate, but with the debate of this question of confidence – and that is why one of the main instruments that allow a government to function and fully develop its policies, that is, the assumptions. As you can also remember – I made reference to the principle of my words – on June 8th, the assumptions that this government had presented to the chamber and that included the highest percentage of social expenditure that ever had any assumptions – concretely, a 73.6_per_cent – did not go beyond the debate of totality. In this way, a whole set of actions incorporating the draft assumptions, with the pre-substantial delay, could not be completed by: a reduction of 50 % of the waiting lists for the first visit to the specialist and diagnostic tests; a reduction of 10 % of the waiting lists for the surgery; an increase of 5,839 beneficiaries of the minimum income of entry to the specialist– 70 % of EUR– million; an increase of 1,470 residential places of care for people with disabilities; an increase in the availability of resources for home care to 6,500 people on a daily basis; the removal of taxes for the report of destination to immigrant persons; an increase in the availability of resources for home care to 6,500 people on a daily basis; the removal of taxes for the report of accommodation to residents on four reports; the increase of 1,470 places of care to large people and people with disabilities; the increase of the availability of resources for home care to work; and the removal of taxes for the four-person's reports; and the increase of the availability of resources for home care to work; thus, thus, a whole series of activities for the project; thus, with the possibility of the budget; the budget; the budget of the budget of the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget; for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget; for the budget; for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the I remind you of that because we're here for the non-approval of a premise that foresees all these measures. That's why we're here, not for other things. I know you'll say tomorrow... or some of you will say that I'm here for other reasons. No, no; we are here because this premise, which, among other things, contained this follow-up of measures, was not approved, nor did it come to pass. Therefore, these are some effects of the non-approval of the assumptions for this 2016. In other words, if we have dealt with and approved ourselves, with the contributions of the parliamentary groups, through the reports, if we have approved the law of assumptions, today, instead of the question of trust, we would have more resources at the disposal of our citizens. The case is that without assumptions it can't rule well. I can't make it clear. No presuppositions can't rule well. And if we can't rule well, we'd have to give the word back to the citizen. In the conversations that we have held these past weeks, also, I have proven that there is a sincere will that the legislature continues. There is, at least, on the part of those who allowed us to begin. If I had doubted that this will did not exist or could not exist in any way, there would have been another decision, which would certainly not have been to summon a question of trust. But he trusted and trusted that, even at times of greatest discrepancy – and the failure to approve of the assumptions was an important one – we would be loyal to the Catalans. But this will today and tomorrow it has to be credited, it has to be certified. If we pass this test tomorrow and commit ourselves to that chain of confidence that I have demanded, what I assure you is that there will be no more debate like today: either the assumptions that the Vice-President Junqueras is hounding and we can therefore face the final stretch of the legislature, or I will use the faculties I have to call elections. I advise you, therefore, that who does not intend to approve the assumptions..., better that I have saved the doubt and the time and tomorrow does not give me the confidence I demand. [[Widow's remorse.]] Trust without presupposition..., trust without presupposition – that makes them very grateful, this expression – reminds me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-28-2201.5.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-28-2201.6.0	... reminds me of the phrase of Saint Jaume, which appears in the impressive work Les quattro chronicles, d'Antoni Tàpies, on the side corresponding to the Book of Acts, and which presides the hall where the executive council of the Palau de la Generalitat is gathered, and which ex-advisors and ex-advisors sure must remember with precision: "Faith without dead works is. I still looked at her yesterday. This is a great deal, and obviously contrasts with the opinion that you must have, that in many cases it will certainly be different, which I believe has led us to the current situation. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, to the foundations for which I ask you that tomorrow, an exhibition and debate of all positions, which I will listen very carefully, a majority of you give me the confidence to continue applying the plan of government with which I have presented myself to this chamber on the 10th day of the past generation and which has received the approval of the absolute majority of the Parliament, which means, first of all, to serve our country, to serve the needs, to combat inequalities, to combat in particular the effects of the crisis, to improve the living conditions of our citizens, to prioritise the social agenda and to encourage economic recovery, to create wealth and to create jobs of better quality and longer duration, to serve the entire system of society, to serve a general system of education, to a general, to a general, a general, a general, a general, a general, a general, a general system of education, etc. Secondly, to defend our country, which means to defend its people; to defend its people from the unjust and harmful leaflets for their quality of life, from the policies and decisions which the Government of the State undertakes, which in its wake derives from unilateral re-centralisation asphyxiate in a clear way the finances of the Generality and reiterates in its incompliments, which also harms – equally and equally – the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans. The State makes no distinctions; the State, when it harms Catalans, harms them the thought they think, speaking the language they speak, the vote they vote, but the damage to society in the 7.5_million Catalans. So much so if they think that Catalonia must continue to feel a decafeinated autonomy of the Spanish monarchy as if they think that it must become an independent state: the abuse of the Spanish State harms them exactly the same. 8_percent of the tax deficit comes from the butxaca of an independentist as well as a "dependentist". [[Widow's remorse.]] The consequences of a lack of resources are felt by everyone – everyone is affected equally – the same way that the benefits of a just distribution are also serious for everyone. And thirdly, as I said, recalling the compromise of this Government's agenda, thirdly, which explains the exceptional nature of the legislature and our government programme, the renewal of confidence in making possible the political timetable to which the majority of Catalans aspire: that this country is governments itself under the form of a republic. I leave this third block and everything you have to do with the culmination of the political process towards independence, and I will now focus on a few examples of what we have done until today in the first two blocks that I have outlined, while I insist – and I have already said this before – on the week that we will talk about with much more detail in the general policy debate, and certainly also in the subsequent policy debate, if we have the opportunity, which I hope we will. One of the things that worries us most about how to govern is the creation of more jobs and quality, and all of them are just in time to transform and empower our product model. Two examples: on the one hand, the National Pact for Industry, which we have started working in collaboration with all the agents involved, and on the other, the deployment of the Law of Vocational Training, with the aim of connecting training and enterprise, with the dual FP as the flag of this ultimate objective. We have increased the funding for active employment policies, with special emphasis on long-term, 50-year-olds and young people, and we have created the Customized Career Orientation Program to help people who are long-term in finding work with individualized advice. In this sense, let me give you some data; data... the most recent. The Catalan economy chained five quarters– five quarters– of growths above 3_per_cent. The increase of the last quarter, of a 3.4_per_cent, almost doubles the mid-point of the European Union of twenty-eight, and it is fruit, in large part..., for the industry, which has grown the highest since 2010. This is a very good data, and this happened here in Catalonia. In fact, our economy already chains thirteen quarters of positive growth, and all of them – all of them – over the growth of the Spanish middle. As a consequence of this, also, the per capita GDP of Catalans is today higher than in the last seven years. And, on the other hand, Catalonia's tourist tax is set at 16_per_cent, four points less than in the Spanish conjunct, a differential, certainly, which has gradually increased from the crisis's beginnings, when only two points were separated from us. It means that the best of our production system spends every time, necessary, to face global, energy and climate challenges, and transition to a more sustainable economic and social model. This bet for a better future is being built securely with the first law that the government that I have the honor of presiding approved: the Climate Change Law. We are doing this with the proposal for a national pact for energy transition or with the Action Plan for the deployment of electric vehicle infrastructure. The record that we have also put in gear and infrastructure for our competitiveness, such as the Diagonal-Besòs University Campus, which is far beyond the benefits of a university and research equipment and which will contribute to the development of Sant Adrià del Besòs, yes, as a university city. Or I remind you of the lengthening of the Railways of the Government of Catalonia to Sabadell and which contrasts, this lengthening, with the repeated oblivion of the State for which it does the rollings and the Mediterranean Corridor; rollings that this summer have again been news for its ability to generate col·lapse without having asked it. We have also faced the judicial debates of the Government of the State through what it wants it to do and act as its armed arm, the Constitutional Court, with nine laws protecting the city from being denunciated or from falling water or light. And here I would like to highlight the new law on the protection of the right to housing of people who are at risk of social exclusion, which we are promoting with speed and the collaboration of professionals, entities and the local world. A collaboration with the local world that was also realized in the new contract program 2016-2019 with the local ones, so that there is a portfolio of social services that, among others, prioritizes the services directed to children and adolescents in a situation of vulnerability. This is an attitude that makes it possible for as much as possible to demand that everyone is ours and that, to be sure, the government does its part: to every blockade of the Spanish State, a Catalan response, which means an answer for all Catalans and Catalans. Another example of the most inclusive country that we want is the armoring of our health model to ensure universal access to health, a law that we have to approve in short and that I hope will count on the support of all of you and that will reverse a decision – let me 'hodir' – immoral of the State, to expel vulnerable people from the health system and that we have never wanted to follow. In this sense of defending and enhancing our public health model, the reminder that just a week ago we inaugurated the new surgical block in the Valley of Hebron, which makes available to all citizens, also now, the best equipment in Europe. There are no other centers that I have, for example, two surgical robots that allow attention that in other countries is a privilege to the abst of very few and that in ours is at the disposal of everyone, and makes very explicit the reason for our commitment with a Catalonia that is governments to itself, that manage its resources and that decide its policies. That's why we approved the 2016-2020 Pla de salut, which is a clear guide to follow for the next few years. And we are also laying the groundwork for basing our own heritage, through its territorial and competitive deployment, and we have been convinced that it must allow us to recover all the resources that are generated in Catalonia and to improve the fight against tax fraud. And we don't just want to fight the fraud, obviously: we are also explaining the Law of Transparency. Certainly – certainly – a law stricter than her state counterpart. And we do this with the inn on the way, for example, to the Register of Interest Groups, the application of the new Code of Conduct of the Highs, all folded up with the objective of being an administration in which our fellow citizens confide without cracks and can fight corruption not only do not have to pursue it once already happened – which is done and will do as much as possible – but above all avoiding it. We are also promoting consensus at different levels on issues that are strategic for the country, such as the third Pla of the third social sector, and also at all territorial levels, where I would like to highlight concrete agreements with the President of the Valencian Generalitat, President Ximo Puig, or with the President of the Balearic Islands, President Francina Armengol, or the consolidation of bilateral relations with very important assemblies of Catalonia: Llobregat Hospital, Badalona, Santa Coloma, Tarragona, Terrassa, Sabadell, among others. And one last point that I want to make is: still not to have assumptions and to have to administer and assume the consequences that I wanted to detail before, and still not to have assumptions we have prioritized at the expense of other parties actions that we consider important to the welfare of our fellow citizens, such as the open game for groceries and the application of new assignment criteria, the increase of four hundred dozen for high-complexity schools or the urgent help for the payment of the logger. All of this draws more from the eight-month course of a government that works, of a government that completes, of a government that runs the territory to listen to everyone, that acts before the emergences that present it and that at all times has donated, donated and will give tangible samples of will, dialogue and agreement. In this sense, beyond what is government action, I think it is very important to note also everything that refers to complementary action between Government and Parliament, already for what it does to the legislative function as at the impulse and control of government action exercised by Parliament. Thus, the Government has approved and passed into Parliament thirteen bills of law, in band to approve thirteen previous memoirs, and has approved four decrees of law that have been validated for Parliament. The government and myself, as the president, have so far met thirteen control sessions, in which we have answered 195 questions. Counselors and advisors have responsed 86 interpellations of the groups. There was 1 appearance of me, as the President, before the plenary; 38 appearances of advisors in different commissions, and 33 appearances of other bodies. The Government has answered 5,028 written questions and 56 oral questions in committee. The Government has already submitted 88 compliment reports on motions and resolutions approved by Parliament. In the band of this, last March there was a monographic debate on the situation of social emergence, which involved the approval of a resolution that included eighty-two points and 273 measures, of which a 76_per_cent are already in progress or are being applied. And the week you see us subscribing to the general policy debate on the government's political orientation and, if the question of trust thrives, we will then have the debate on the assumptions for 2017. They see, therefore, that this government, that it had the reckonings, that it had to burst into internal contradictions and that it would fall to the Parliament, that government has done work, does it and wants to continue doing it. But I have to admit that there have been interbanks that we did not expect and that, if they persist, they will make it very difficult – in fact, they will stop it – our work. That's why we're here. That's why we need to do a reset and ask ourselves if we want to continue and if we want to commit ourselves to it, to everything that implies the end of the legislature. I have come to ask you this: to complete the government program in all its ambition to be able to continue the work without interbanks; do we commit ourselves to it? I ask for it in Parliament and I hope the answer tomorrow, in the vote that each of you will express with complete freedom and that, for me and for you, it should be a compromise. If the majority's response is a yes to this compromise, the September 27 mandate will be completed until the end and we can go through it jointly in all the stages that await us by July. I said I was leaving the block that explains the exceptional character of the legislature by the end. Obviously, we want to become a state. We have the mandate of the citizens to prepare here, the Parliament and the Government, all that is necessary because Catalonia can become an independent state. And this is a warrant that needs to be completed and that I've bought myself to complete. I did it when, from day one, I joined the presidency and announced that this would be my commitment. I repeat today, because there is no doubt about it. The political timing that we want to achieve is the one that gathers more strength than any other, the one that has the greatest capacity for mobilization, spectacular, exemplary and admirable run of the world and, moreover, sustained in time. Around the idea of a republic Catalonia, independent or confederate, the majority of the citizens of our country apply to it. And a vast majority of this vast majority wants this republic to be an independent state. There are no other political projects in Europe that mobilize so many people. It's not our house either. No one is able to gather millions of people for five years following a reform of the Constitution, for example; or around the same Constitution, which is still in force; as it is the will of so many times as it has been necessary for us to constitute ourselves – and ultimately – in an independent state. That's what we've done to finish the legislature, if no one fails. I will not fail, but I will not be able to complete without a majority in Parliament, without cracks and without the people mobilized when they are mobilized, which will be warm. And I know it won't fail because, in all these years, if something has proven repeatedly, it's that people don't fail when they need it. This is a feasible horitzo, it's a necessary horitzo and it's an irreversible horitzo. We can take it long, we need it to be able to progress and give our children and children the opportunities they deserve. And it's the result of a popular will that doesn't go back. We can agree, manage this compromise with everyone; and even so, with the contrary to independence, the same way that the independenceists worked with the compromise of the autonomists, when this was the majority of Catalans' will. If you say 'pragmatism', if you say 'political', if you say 'democracy'. To complete this time, this time of turning Catalonia into a state, we identified that the following was necessary: first place, state structures, to be able to go from autonomy to independence; second place, a legislative package, to go from law to law, and, third place, a citizen validation, to go from polls to polls. On state structures and legislative package, let them make a summary of what we find at these times and what we expect at the end of the legislature. I think it's time today to go into a major detail and explain, in your parliamentary office, an explicit commitment to equip us with some indispensable tools so that there will be no leaps into the void and to give full guarantees, which we have done before the first day that we put ourselves to work. At the end of June 2017 we will be preparing the necessary state structures to act as a state and be able to integrate into the European Union and the international community. [[Widow's remorse.]] We are prepared to make this journey to the independent state in an orderly manner, like saying, without leaps into the void, with guarantees for which it does not only to legal certainty, but also to the economic viability of the new state, that is, to the sustainability of its public accounts and to the continuity of social services and public services close to a welfare state. And we will do it as we have always done: in a peaceful and democratic way. In short, at the end of June 2017, we would be prepared to be able to disconnect from the Spanish State with full guarantees, and, if possible, to be able to do so by mutual agreement with the State and following the legally provided procedures. We'll be ready because he's been working on this object for some time now. And it would have been a hard irresponsibility on the part of the government and the parties that support it to propose the creation of a similar state and not to prepare with the maximum care this creation and its initial functioning. It is working, until the last detail, not only the indispensable normative texts – laws, decrees, decrees – but also other more concrete and operational measures, such as now all that affects the human resources, material and assumptions necessary so that the new state, at the time of disconnection, can effectively exercise the nine functions that it will assume. It is also working, with special care and dedication, in the protocols of the actions that will need to be carried out in especially sensitive areas on the day of disconnection, and the following days and weeks. We are talking about several hundred concrete measures – material documents and actions – that affect all spheres: from security to communication, from external health to justice administration, international recognition of the new state, external diplomatic representations, individual strategies relating to thousands of treaties and hundreds of international organisations to which the new state will be added, social protection, energy sub-administration, infrastructure and search centres, comprehensive management of maritime fisheries or the agricultural insurance system. The list could be very long. Some of these jobs have already been given to meet. This is the case, for example, of the Law of the Tax Code of Catalonia and its first three books, including that of the Tax Agency, the Tax Council and the Board of Tributes; or the deletion of the Law of the Social Protection Agency. The other tasks, from the foundational and transitional law to the protocol relating to the management of rivers or international reels, the treatment of nuclear waste, etc., will be presented at the moment when it is politically opportune. In any case – in any case – it must be made clear to the citizens that at the time of being called to the polls to express their willingness to create the new state they will have all the information about the state structures that is necessary to be able to pronounce with full knowledge of the cause. The structures and activities that can be prepared and implemented are certainly many and complex, but it is an affluent task. And that's because we already have fully functioning institutions and administrative structures now, and that's often... that what we need to do is not so much create new institutions or structures as just reinforce what we already have. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that only the structures necessary for the creation of the Catalan state and to guarantee its functioning during the initial stage, and not the rest of the structures, which, of course, will have to have a second stage of full normalization. It is obvious that this process cannot predict everything at all. But you will have everything you need because this transition from post-autonomy to pre-independence is done with the maximum guarantees and maximum security. With everything I've just explained to you so far, I think it's clear what our government – and my personal government – is proposing in this legislature, but that's not going to be enough. We will be warmed by the permission of our true masters, who are the Catalans and the Catalans; no one else can give us permission to do what we have to do that the citizens do not follow with their vote. All we have to count on is the people's view, as always in democracy; it's the people who change the standards; it's the people who say how they want to be governed. That's why we're talking about a democratic validation of the independence process. What is idoniy validation in these types of situations? What is the clearest and most internationally acceptable mechanism for measuring the will of a people before a historic decision? There is a huge, political and civic consensus that the ideal formula is a reference given to the State. And we all know that as many times as we've asked, so many times they've denied it to us. You mean that the given reference has to be discarded? So, no. In fact, I come to say the opposite: that we must not be the ones who decide to discard it. I think it has already become clear that I have not come to try to make an obsolescent autonomy sustainable, nor to entertain the hopes of so many good people that I desire profound changes with semantic games that we know – and today even better than eight months ago – that have served nothing more than to postpone, and even to hide, the timid and inconcrete insinuations of reform. So much so that today we have seen – for me, with great sadness – how the Spanish political and media system devours those who like to open a little focus, very discreetly and without any ideological or programmatic renunciation, to wonder if they should not talk to the independence forces. To ask 'ho! To like to approach the recognition of a problem, because you have the honesty to think that you might have to do something about it after five years with millions of people mobilized and two_million voters asking to give themselves from the Spanish state. A thing as radical, as anti-systemic, as scandalous as talking to others because it came to the conclusion that this is real, that we are probably not that branch of mindless and indoctrinated people that the propaganda "dependentist strives to preach, sometimes with co-sponsors. One thing as unusual in the Spanish political system as it is to talk to others, even though it is to tell them that he is wrong, but that he is willing to listen to their reasons and know whether or not there is a way to solve it. They pick up the big Christ and set him up with a monumental federal cider. [[Widow's remorse.]] I said that it produced me sad and it is correct, because I lay myself on the skin of all Spanish democrats and I imagine it deeply concerned about the weakening of the alternative to the command and command of the People's Party, and to see as those of the rotating doors, that one day so many people were deluded with the promise of change, today they are the beginnings of the greatest disloyalty for so long as they did not change; especially, their way of hearing power, and in a more special way, the way of hearing post-power. When I was invested as president, in the Spanish state there was already a functioning government. After several parliamentary control sessions, the Spanish State will continue to have the same government in place as the generation and that will not have done anything about it, nor a simple parliamentary control session. And it causes the consequences that all of you already know: from the negative impact on the image of the State of the world, to the uncertainty of business, which certainly does not provoke the process of independence of Catalonia, as the Spanish government itself recognizes by writing. I said "the same government as the generation, but it's not entirely certain: it's worse. More impetite and with ministers who have demonstrated their indignity to occupy the carrec, some of whom have resigned, but others still cling to the chair. The State, clearly, has gone worse. [[Greetings.]] And it is precisely because the State has already proven twice – and who knows if a third – that Catalonia can't rule, that today it touches, with more emphasis than ever, to point out that there is an alternative that unlocks the two political problems, and that this alternative passes through Catalonia. It is possible that the Spanish State has a government that is able to move to a dark and inoperative age from many points of view, which would be widely celebrated within and outside the State, and which, at the same time, is able to respond politically, with the ambition that exceptional circumstances require, the Catalan demand to vote, which would also be widely celebrated within and, above all, outside the State. I know that this democratic, peaceful and persistent demand for Catalan politics and society has not rejected proper consideration. In fact, it has often rejected a hard and irresponsible disregard. I know that for some, negotiating with us is negotiating with the enemy worse. The president of the Xunta de Galícia said a week ago, literally, that "it is not possible to negotiate with the gun of separatism on the table. In fact, they consider it worse, because in order to negotiate with ETA they met at least on two occasions and in order to negotiate with us they do not accept or establish its table. [[Strong applause.]] Minister Margallo went even further and considered us worse than a terrorist storm, in some words that do not only offend Democrats in general, but that they offend in a punishing way who has been the victim of a terrorist storm, because you know, with a huge pain that never goes out, the one he represents. I remember all this because all those who speak of moderation and centrism contrast exactly what moderate and centrist inclines say before an impeccable democratic demand and exemplary that, in case they have not yet joined when they look at the images for the TV, it is also done by the moderate and center people of this country, because they neither fill the streets nor ever fill the ballot boxes. But now there is a new opportunity for the recognition of Catalan reality by the Spanish political system. I would say more: there is a need for recognition of this demand on the part of the State if it wants to get out of the embolism that harms everyone, especially the people who are in the dark and who have to have business investments stopped because of the uncertainty and lack of confidence generated by Spanish politics. It is not a demand that I address to the presiding officer in office, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, but that transferred responsibility to the entire Spanish political system. Everyone – everyone – has an assigned responsibility, too, to make possible a given reference. In this sense, I can say quite clearly that there is all the willingness to work actively with a Spanish government that wants to work closely with the Catalan Government, not only to comply with the commitments of autonomy, which should no longer be called for, but also to make it possible for us to vote in a referendum on Catalonia's independence. In this sense, I repeat here in Parliament that the Spanish political leaders know directly to me: if we accept the democratic principle that the Catalans must be able to vote, then we are prepared to open a negotiation to explore in what terms this reference should be developed. Which means that we can talk about how we ask the question, which is the most appropriate date to do it, which are the quorums that we would accept to consider the results valid, which moratorium we would set to call the reference again in case the loss and how we would manage the outcome that you are going to get. We can talk about this in depth and with joy, and we can all benefit from it, to all those who thank you so much that you expose what is the demand of 2 million Catalans, to whom we surely hope to serve some day. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Because I remind you that the demand for a given reference is not 48_per_cent, it is 60_per_cent. And, therefore, all those who say that you can't do the reference because it's 48, etc., if it's a 60, neither? [[Pause.]] Neither is it? [[Pause.]] So then we're not talking about democracy, we're talking about something else. To achieve this... – because the opposition already sees that it is not at all, let's say, clear in its proposals –, to achieve this as courage and compromise. I ask again if there is anyone in the Spanish political system who has the courage and the commitment to assume a historical responsibility, which is surely uncomfortable – sure, very uncomfortable – but which is essential to find solutions. I can't get past past the anchors they're still leaving. We need to leave the misery of the present and look forward to the future with conviction. As the great socialist occità Joan Jaures, a referent of French socialism, said, and that it is certainly not clear that he is ever sitting at a board of directors of a multinational energy company. [[relays]] "There must be no regret for the past; no remorse for the present and unshakable confidence for the future. This is an offer that doesn't expire, but that doesn't paralyze. I mean that the calendar of the proceedings and the fundamentals of the proceedings are kept intact, and at the end of July of the year the Parliament will approve the necessary laws because Catalonia functions as an independent state, and we will call the citizens to the polls so that they can vote for the proclamation of independence. In this sense, if Parliament trusts me, I will instruct Vice-President Junqueras, as President of the Interdepartmental Commission for the Impulse of Self-Government, to direct the architecture of a referendum through which we culminate the proposal to return to Catalonia the political power of a sovereign state, and to organize the department that the Romeva Councillor presides, which has responsibility for participation. By the way, a task that appeals to the entire government and to which the government assumes the unspeakable responsibility that surrounds it. The resolution of the Catalan demand will therefore do so: either referendum, or referendum. I repeat: "The reference, the reference. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] That I have made it clear, I repeat, that we will pursue the agreement until the end of the day. We will work with the will to make an agreementable reference to the State at all times, but if we arrive at the end of the legislature and there has been no positive response in this sense, we will be prepared and ready to push the last grace before effectively proclaiming Catalonia's independence and, as we stretch, summon a reference for the second fortnight of September of the year you see. With this we will complete the mandate rejected on 27 September. With this we will culminate the legislature in the terms of the final time with which I committed myself. But we need, naturally, to overcome a shield – we need to overcome a shield. This shield is called trust. If we make a pact for trust... – and what better place to make a pact for trust than a parliament, before all the people of Catalonia, not inside a despatx, here –, if we make a pact for trust, tomorrow will break the second and last stage of the process towards the independence of Catalonia. If the outcome does not allow this pact, the legislature will be over. I trust all of you personally – all of you, 135, 134, I also have confidence in myself, but..., [[relays]] in all of you. But I trust, above all, that most of you will give me the confidence that they require, faithful to the compromise that I expressed on the 10th of January in the investiture session and that I subsequently ratified in my speech of possession. Thank you very much for your attention. Good afternoon. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-09-28-2201.7.0	Once the President's intervention has been completed, in accordance with the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokesmen, the session is suspended until tomorrow morning at nine. Thank you very much.
