ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.1.0	The session begins. The list of questions to answer in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this session. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thus, I recall the delegation of vote which, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, made the deputies Alicia Romero Llano, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I'd really appreciate it if you could keep it quiet, please, we've started the plenary session. Thank you. Thus I remember the delegation of vote which, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, have made the deputies Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and Àngels Martínez, of the Catalan Parliamentary Group Yes, it is possible, in respect of the spokesman, Mrs Eva Granados and Mr Joan Coscubiela. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with the request made by all parliamentary groups, pursuant to Rule 81.3 of the Rules, the fifth item of the agenda, relating to the Architecture Bill, is withdrawn from the agenda of this plenary session. As a consequence of this alteration, the proposals that the questions corresponding to points 9 and 10 are substantiated after point 6 and point 7 are substantiated after point 18. Can these proposed changes be approved by consent? [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, these changes are approved in the order of the day. [[Ask the government about the prison and the special lockdown regime]] [[310-00063/11]] The first point of the order of the day are asked to the Government. The first question is about jails and the special lockdown regime. Asks the question Mrs. Mireia Vehí, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, the other day came out to Ara... – well, the other day..., yes, to the gener – came out to Ara a news, that the medical director of Brians prison did not know the Istanbul protocol and that it said that, in the new years that he was working in prison centers, he had never detected any cases of maltreatment. The Istanbul protocol is the main international guide to identify whether a person has suffered torture, and you yourself on February 24 announced, Mr. Counsellor, that it would apply to Catalan prisons. We ask ourselves: how is this implementation? And if this applies – that is to say, will it form – to all medical staff of Catalan prisons and also to medical staff of CAP and normal hospitals, say, without deprivation of liberty? We understand that the Istanbul protocol is an applicable tool, both in deprivation of liberty and in detention and in police custody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.3.0	The question is answered by Mr Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.4.0	Good morning, President. Good morning to everyone..., honourable Member, as you yourself remember, in my appearance in Parliament we have acquired the commitment to adopt the Istanbul protocol, which, in short, is an element that will serve us to explain and recognize the good work and dedication and rigour with which the work is done in the prisons of Catalonia. And, therefore, we understand that the commitments and obligations arising from the adoption of this protocol will ultimately serve to make it clear and to visualize, here and beyond, that the prison system in Catalonia acts with rigour and with rigour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.5.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.6.0	Thank you, President. Yes, Mr. Counselor, we already know that. What we want to know is whether you will train all the medical staff or not and whether it will only form the prison staff. And besides that, at Brians Prison, this very one is working on this director who says that in the nine years that she has worked in prison centres, she has never seen a right-wing violation, April 2015 – that we also know for the record – an intern killed herself and was under the special department of closed law, the one known as DERT. Mr. Calderó, director of prison centers, announced that there was an open investigation, by a band, and that the DERT would be evaluated to review it and improve it. The DERT in prison legislation is a mechanism to apply to dangerous interns and it is considered that they do not adapt to the normal prison regime. We understand... we and we don't just call it human rights entities, which, in practice, is a systemic violation or a systemic violation of internal human rights. So, apart from the reps, we've already done it, if you're planning to train prison doctors and hospital doctors on Istanbul protocol issues, we ask: Will the Generality take responsibility in this case? Will you check the DERT? For us, the DERT, I say it directly, because I have a little more time, it is directly a measure that is not proportional and that supposes a measure of application and practice of systematic torture to prisons and prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.8.0	My honourable Member, this statement seems to me to be particularly gruesome and out of reality and, therefore, I think I almost invite you to rectify, because I say that in the DERT, that in the end it is a rule, the first..., the first-degree rule that is practiced in prison and affirming without rumbling that it is a practice..., that it is an area of systemic torture, it is obviously an absolute falsehood, and that I invite you to rectify it because it seems to me profoundly unfair for the professionals of the penitentiary services. That said, the DERT is indeed the special rule in which they have the treatment process agreed upon by the treatment juntas. Therefore, the interns who end up at a point in their stay in the penitentiary services, are because there is a treatment board formed by psychologists, educators, lawyers and specialists who determine that this is the proper way to formalize the treatment during a brief stay in the penitentiary centers. It is clear that this measure is exceptional and it is obvious, as you yourself have stated, that the first measure adopted by the director of the Prison Service was to agree to make an audit of the use made of the DERT, not because you believe that there is systematic torture, as you say, but because, obviously, it is an exceptional measure that we tend to limit to those cases where it is actually essential and because the treatment joints value that this is the appropriate measure. So what I have to say to you is that we are compromised, like all the groups in the chamber – I'm not sure – in fact that in the prison centers we are doing the best we can and we will delve into the policies that we are doing, that they are strengthening the treatment processes, strengthening the open regime, because the students thus indicate to us that it is the best way to complete the goal of the prison system, which is reinsertion. And, in this sense, all the groups in the chamber and the government in the front are completely compromised in the better treatment of prison centers, both from the inside and from their workers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the right subject to guaranteed minimum tickets]] [[310-00059/11]] Second question to the Government... [[Look Vehi and Cantenys ask to speak.]] My honourable Member, the time has run out... no, it seems to me that we have already said that on the turn of questions to the Government and the President of the Generality we did not ask questions for clarifications. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I know hard... - I know hard, I know hard - but we've already stayed at this; in any case, I can cheer the counselor later. Second question to the Government, about the right subject to guaranteed minimum tickets. The question is posed by Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.10.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, one of the first commitments he made after assuming the job was to recover the minimum income of insertion as right subject to all people and then to work towards guaranteed income of citizenship. In today's day, all the inputs that we have in us make us predict that the promise he made will remain incomplete. The inputs that we have and that relate to it are how they have varied the report in these past four months. From right subject to everyone who completes the requirements, which means open or expandable start, we went on to say that what they will do is increase by 70_million euros external, linked to the social security plan. This isn't open anymore. Later, these 70_million euros have been conditional on the adoption of assumptions. And last week, when he appeared at the work commission, his secretary-general had already said that these 70_million foreign euros would only be if they had guaranteed enough tickets; or, then, it is no longer necessary to have the assumptions, but a few assumptions with certain enough tickets. If we take into account that we are thinner and warmer, respect the assumption, I ask myself, and I ask him, will he advise: I kept his promise to recover already the minimum income as right subject to then go to the guaranteed income of citizenship?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's the word "Treball Advisor", "Social Afers" and "Families," Ms. Pain Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.12.0	Good morning, all of you. Thank you for the question, but I never made a promise, first of all, starting here. I have always explained to myself: for the Government we understand the subject right as the right to have minimum entrances that are essential for basic subsistence and that are for the country – and for the Government, obviously – universal, economically sustainable and that this social land that we give to people – so, because it is deserved and because it is a right to have these entrances – giving maximum profitability to employment and social inclusion. This is why we are talking about minimum income for insertion and we are not talking, yet, about income for citizenship or basic income, because we think that, from the work that is a fan of the ILP that was done in Parliament, we can change towards a similar income. Therefore, our compromise, which is not a promise, is a minimum income of insertion as right to tickets for an active, social and labor insertion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.14.0	Thank you, President. Therefore, counsel: Minimal insertion renders as right subject, subject to assumptions; therefore, not as right subject. That's what he's repeating to us today, that's what his secretary general told us the other day when he appeared at the committee. Makes minimal insertion as right subject to certain entries, some entries that in the Ple passed yourself, you as the deputy, voted against increasing these entries with proposals made by Catalonia Yes it is possible. That in the past plenary, the Government, in the mouth of the Councillor of Salut, recognized that 2,000_million euros are being subsidized to the mutual labor, and in fifteen days we have not listened, on the part of the Government, that it has made any proposal to settle this and have more tickets for a minimum income of insertion actually like right subject and not subject to assumptions. Mirin, the minimum income for insertion was one of the key elements that you decided to profile from good principles to prove that they are no more of the same, from the government. If they really want us not to see them as a continuity, more than that, maybe they start acting different.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.16.0	Yes, I repeat: we..., first, we have not made any promises; second, that the compromise is firm and is and continues to be – and continues to be – as the right subject. We always talked about the need to negotiate a shoc plan – a shoc plan – and that in this shoc plan of assumptions there were 70_millions destined for minimum income. What we don't want to create is false expectations. It's a minimal income that has some conditioning, obviously. That's why I'm saying it's different from a basic income or a citizenship income, because the assumption we have at these times in the country doesn't allow us. But it is also a minimum income that has been accompanied by other measures, as can be programs that you know very well: RMI, programs related to job placement and, above all, social support programs, which is what we need to get people back into the social arena, obviously, where everyone needs to be. Therefore, the firm and secure compromise, of minimal income of insertion as to right subject that it is, that it can be paid and that, therefore, we can allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the application of the Catalonia Consumer Code]] [[310-00055/11]] Third question to the Government, on the application of the Catalonia Consumer Code. The question is posed by Mr. Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.18.0	Yes... Counselor, answer a question from Ciutadans, his advice confirmed his willingness to continue imposing many languages on the trades of our community so as not to retort as in catalally as the names of the negotiations, and directly attack the freedom of enterprise and the personal linguistic freedom of many traders, small traders, many of them autonomous, who do not have easy to assume or economically or morally an imposition of this type. Catalonia is innovative, innovative in this formula of imposition, since we are a unique example to all of Spain and all of Europe. Thus, the year 2015, as the balance of operations of the Catalan Consumer Agency says, penalties for violation of linguistic rights were increased by a sum of 173_per_cent and were the fourths in number of actions over other concepts, such as penalties for non-compliance with consumer care obligations. We have a Catalan consumer agency more concerned with punishing those who freely decide to put in their bakery oven, than to know if the bakery oven meets their customer care obligations. It's a misrepresentation. Counselor, will you continue to impose unjust and unnecessary burdens on small traders, many of them entrepreneurs and locals, forcing them to work to pay for their ideological goals?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Jordi Baiget, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.20.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, to your question, I answer you: the Government will continue to apply the Law of 22/2010 of 20 July 2010 of the Code of Consumers to Catalonia, which protects the linguistic rights of consumers and users of this country and which, as they do to all countries of Europe, as it is and as all Community directives provide... ; which requires, this law, because consumers can also be protected in their linguistic rights and in their linguistic rights, as at least – as at least – they have been relegated in català.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.21.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.22.0	Counselor, you know that what you say is not true, but we invite you to exercise a simple and very comforting exercise: talk to the sanctioned traders and spend a few minutes trying to justify the fine imposed. Can you explain to them what benefits your business will have by using one language or another to your account and how this improves the product your customers consume? Or the use of imposing a fine that you're supposed to lose the benefits of weeks of your work? Perhaps carrying so many years passing by public charges has lengthened them from the reality of those who already make enough sacrifices every day to pay political obsessions as well. Mr Baiget, they will have Ciutadans' support to improve the Code of consumption and eliminate linguistic sanctions, but also the most clear opposition to follow the linguistic policy that has clearly marked them the Manifest Koiné retrograde. They can choose, but remember: there are two great enemies of a language, those who forbid it and those who, like you, impose it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.23.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.24.0	Look, look if we talk to people and traders who impose sanctions that never impose a sanction on their first visit. First it goes, it looks at whether it incompletes or does not incomplete the law; it goes back to it, it looks at whether it has changed it, and the second or the third time it starts a procedure that can lead to an expedient and that can end with a sanction. But, look, this, you don't care about the compliment of the law. [[Widow's remorse.]] With this question, you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.25.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.26.0	...what you clearly leave out are the intentions to which they were born as political formation, which are nothing more than trying to separate a society according to the language they speak. [[applause]] or good to look for [[remorse of the voice]] - Look...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.27.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.28.0	...to seek to create linguistic problems where they are not. Yours– yours– [[remorse of the voice]] , at his main voluntar...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.29.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.30.0	...is to place this country's own language in a state of second level and marginal. And with this, I say they will fail, how they have failed... for example, the attempts to buy families with six thousand euros because they switch from one place to another for schooling in castle. [[Some applause.]] He failed. And listen to me – and listen to me – the Consumer Code defends all the citizens of this country, as the forty-thousand holders of preferences show, who, thanks to the performance of the Consumer Code, have seen and returned their investment and their capital. This is the concern of the Catalan Consumer Agency for the benefit of all citizens. As with the clauses only and also with the index of mortgage reference. These are the main actions that the Catalan Consumer Agency does to defend consumers in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.31.0	Fourth question to the Government, on the personnel policy of the Department of Interior. [[Ask the Government about the personnel policy of the Department of Interior]] [[310-00056/11]] The question is posed by Mr Matías Alonso, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.32.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, the report of the Generality's work places published in 2014_has been challenged by the Independent Union of Staff Commands because the total of the 221 work places in the Inspector and Intendant categories held as the system of provision the free designation. The report of work places now in force, published on June 2015, maintained this system of provision for the total number of work places corresponding to both categories. Do you think that every inspector and every intendant should be assigned to the system of free designation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to the Councillor of Interior, Mr. Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Alonso, we will complete the sentences of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. We have already created a working group that will review these places that he gave of intender, inspector, on a case-by-case basis, because if it is true that not all intenders and inspectors are able to cover according to these meanings for the free designation, it is also true that the regulations of the Squad's Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra, of the rest of the police bodies, and also of the whole of the exercise, and, in the framework of the basic Staff Regulations of the public employment, he knows perfectly well that it is possible to cover the places of work for the free designation, for his particular responsibility, for his direct character or command, because they are places at times specific that really require this system of provision. Therefore, we will review it on a case-by-case basis and when it is justified, it will be free to designate and when, obviously, we will not; 2014 and, obviously, 2015 too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.36.0	Thank you very much. Counselor, I'm glad to hear it, because you know as well as I do that in all access processes and provision to work places, the Public Administration has to select the best, because it's always the public interest that has to prevail. And the system, we could tell you that normal, in this area of supply of work places is the contest. The contest must always prevail over the free designation. And you know – as you said – that the same law that regulates the police of the Generality only provides for covering the places of work of commissioners and majors for this system, because they correspond to this maximum responsibility of command of the body. It's true, the SICME has won this appeal, the feeling is already firm, the current relationship of work places continues to hold to that feeling. It is true that it has been published in advance of this very feeling, but we are happy to hear it, because what we need to take away, precisely, is a system of customerism in which there is an abuse of this system of free designation, which one might think that what is claimed with the dome of the Squadre Mosses Cos is to constitute a menu of pretorian guardship in which the closest ones favor themselves, assigning them the places of work in a discretionary way. And this, Mr. Counselor, is a very bad practice. This is not a minor issue because it would directly lead to equity and equal opportunities, because it would have a serious impact on the career plan of the members of the executive and the intendants of the higher level. And I also have to tell you that it affects members of the basic and intermediate scales because certain fates, within their department, have all their places of work subject to the discretion of the free designation. Therefore, I am glad, to feel it, that it will take care of the court, that they will modify this relation of places of work because it is true, the trust is fundamental in a thing like that of the Mossos d'Esquadra, but not to maintain these principles of equality, merit and ability in the if of public office is the first step because this trust is treacherous to the moral of the body and its components. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.38.0	Thank you very much. That's it, as Congressman Alonso says. There are some feelings that we will complete, it is certain that no one is arguing that the commissioners or the major remain of the free designation and, for the rest, I am open on a case-by-case basis, because they have known, not only of the intendants or of the inspectors, they have known that they can affect members of the body that for their special responsibility, Area of Escorts, General Information Commissioner, it is convenient that they can be, as in the rest of the police, for the free designation. But you ask me personally. And I'll tell you one thing: what we have to do is create nine seats, because we're losing seats in the body, and we're making a new public job offer with 400 new seats for the Squad Coast, with 18 more seats for inspectors, 12 for stewards, 8 for commissioners and 1 for majors, that's what we want to do, because we can't lose effect. We will also do so in the area of the Firehouse, because they are safety requirements, which each year we are losing effect and we cannot afford. And, therefore, when you ask me personally I also want to make it all worth what we want to do from the Government of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the risk of contempt of certain bodies and institutions]] [[310-00058/11]] Five questions to the Government about the risk of contempt of certain bodies and institutions. The question is posed by Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.40.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor Romeva, you are under the responsibility of the department that encapsulates the areas related to democratic quality and institutional relations and we assume that the intersection between these two areas too. In this sense, perhaps I could give a little light on the circumstances surrounding extinction – and I quote literally –"from the previous address and editorial board of the Catalan Public Law Journal and also on the circumstances surrounding the resignation of Carles Gasòliba to the head of the Cidob.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.42.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I will be very frank, about the first question I have no information; in any case, it is not responsible for this department the fact that has occurred and, in any case, I have no knowledge of it. On the second fact, it is a personal decision and, in any case, it is a process that is perfectly open and contemplated in the statutes. It's the end of a term, and like the end of a term, it's about renewing it. Therefore, there is no special circumstance that I can explain, beyond this normality of carrec renewal, the decision with regard to the Cidob.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.44.0	Thank you, Counselor. I must say that we are concerned about the drift that we are warning in the government's institutional relations with different organizations, institutions and civic and social organizations in the country. I have to inform you, if it isn't the case – although probably some of your government's companies and companies can explain it – that the extinction of the editorial board and the address of the Catalan Public Law Journal seems to have had some issue with the orientation of some of the publications, or rather, perhaps some of the publications that they refused to publish. For example, two related to the 1/XI declaration of 9 November on the Parliament of Catalonia. And we know that there has also been some invitation that at this new stage that it was necessary to row all in the same direction. In this sense, and respect the resignation of Carles Gasòliba in front of the Cidob, we must say that we are surprised by the seraphic view that it does, as a matter of absolute normality. It's not like that. We can say that according to the note published by the same Cidob, it was explained that the resignation of Carles Gasòliba is justified on the basis of the opinion expressed by institutional patterns in order to start a new stage in the current context, in which it is placed emphasis on the role of Catalonia as an international actor. And, in this sense, it may be worth recovering from the hemeroteca some headlines such as the "disease to Democratic Convergence for the Spanishism of the Cidob – and I suppose that of the Lord Gasòliba – and the discomfort because the Cidob celebrates with the most important Spanishist think tank, the Royal Elcano Institute". There was a time, Counsellor Romeva, when you would have denounced the collusion of interests, the confusion between the party, the institution, the government, the country, and the patrimony of the institutions and organizations of the country. Maybe he's not on condition to do it right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.46.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. I repeat, with regard to the first question... in any case, it is not the department that I bring to whom it is competent to answer. In any case, I would ask you to address the question to the corresponding department. In relation to the Cidob, I, as far as I know, Mr. Carles Gasòliba is from Convergence. And, therefore, from this point of view, in any case this question is internal, from the reading that you do, in the Convergence Mark. It's not the case with this department. This department is a more – a more – boss – boss of the Cidob, and from this perspective there is absolutely no interference from the point of view of the search line. I myself win from research, I win from international relations research centres, I know perfectly well what it costs to gain international prestige and I know perfectly well the importance of these centres from the point of view of a country's external projection, or even from a cross-cultural point of view. That's a topic that's out of the question, Mr. Pedret. It's absolutely out of the question. Even more so: when, from the international perspective, one comes up with the disclaimer of the institutions, man, in the case of the State I am left with a few that are clearly discredited. We could talk about the legislature at the state level, we could talk about the execution, we could talk about the judiciary, we could talk about the embassies and the foreign service. Of institutions at the state level that are perfectly discredited for many reasons, there is enough. In change, in the case of Catalonia this is not the case. The prestige is won. In the case of the Cidob, a prestige has been won by many years of hard work. In good faith, I have been absolutely unwitting for many years. And, besides, recognition is important. Last year, 2015, it was recognized in different magazines and ranks as the best research think tank at European level. That's a topic that's out of the question. The gears are part of another dimension. For what he does to this department, I assure him that the position is very clear. We will participate as close as we are as patrons in the employers' office. Who makes the decisions is the board or is the boss in each case. From this point of view, absolute tranquillity and guarantees that the Cidob, which continues to feel and will continue to feel a centre of European and world reference, is absolutely guaranteed. For our part, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the implementation of basic vocational training]] [[310-00057/11]] Sisena asks the Government about the implementation of basic vocational training. The question is posed by María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.48.0	Thank you, President. In Catalonia, we are leaders in barracks, in poorly maintained and massive institutes, in exploiting teachers with more hours, more students, less salary, in interim, in precariousness... In competitions we lose positions, and we have real absenteeism and failure at school far above the levels that correspond to our socio-economic level. And in the face of any improvement initiative, you always tell us that you don't have any money for anything other than shooting. For this reason, we are drawn to the attention that they give up the money that Europe and the ministry offers them: 106_million_of_euros that are available to implement the basic FP and the new ESO itineraries in Catalonia, and of which the Generalitat has already renounced 16_million_and_middle_between_2014 and 2015. Counselor, are we going to lose this year's 39_millions as well? What about the 51st of 2017? Will we lose the total of these 106_million extra funding?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word Ms. Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.50.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam MP, look, I let 'em go, because we've already returned, that it's not true that Catalonia has a great school failure. We are at European level, both at a low level and at a low level. Yeah, that's what all the figures say. Yesterday we also donated the data that the basic skills were improving. But let's say one thing: what we won't do is accept money at any price. Because the basic FP, which is a failure. So we don't lose money. We lose students. And if you don't ask the autonomous communities that they have applied basic FP the fracs they have of first-rate students who don't continue to second.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.52.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, let's go to the reality of things. In this case, the disloyalty of this Government is not only with Europe or with the Government of Spain. It is that you are deceiving and harming the people, the Catalans, that we deserve more than an immobile government unable to accept the educational changes that are applied and financed from Europe. Because you will know that as many European social funds have never been allocated to education as to basic VET. It won't be that bad, will it? And Catalonia can benefit from 106_million_euros that we are losing because of the intolerance and sectarianism of this government. Intolerance, to close in band to comply with an organic law that believes it does not suit it, although it is bound, and sectarianism, for its obsession not to apply anything that comes from the PP, by pure political strategy, although it is adopted from Europe. Pure party demagogy. How to accuse as a segregator a model of itineraries that is applied in European countries with the best results, and you know it, and that all experts recommend. More segregating will be parking in the last row of the ESO second or third row for students who will end up thickening LOGSE's school failure when they complete the seventeen without a title to earn a living. □ to offer the FP that you have invented: vocational promotion programmes, which have neither European funding nor official title. In other words, they are not valid for either access to the university or for access to the labour market with a qualified degree. Counselor, we know you sell, go against the PP. But, if it is not for loyalty and compliance with the law, even for our economic interest, we ask you to rectify and sign already the agreement of application of the basic FP in order to be able to obtain the 106_million_of_euros...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.54.0	...because we're not about to lose anything. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.55.0	Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.56.0	I insist, honourable Member, that despite the fact that these millions are doing very well, we will not do so because of the difference in modeling. Do you know why? Because basic FP isn't new. 1970 General Education Law: He took the students they didn't serve, put them in FP1 and here they stayed. That's exactly what basic FP does. So, reconnect the school failure to the FP, and that's what we don't want for our country. Miri, it seems to me that speaking of "sectarianism with a government that has approved an educational law with zero consent, without having spoken to the educational community and without having..., the PP has approved a law without any other parliamentary support..., I would not say that our law, which was passed in this Parliament by a large majority, is the one that has sectarianism. Miri, the Catalonia he's been abetting for is a curriculum diversification. What we don't do is take the students 14 years old, take 'em out of the system and drive them out another way. What we do is give diverse curricula, what we do is give UEC, initial training and training programs, and also – and also – some basic vocational training module. But let's say one thing. What we see more and more is that you did not want to make a law for the better of educational quality. You, the Spanish Government, wanted to make an organic law for the makeup of educational results. Because it's true that all of these students with a big crush on the basic FP would end up with a post-binding title. Therefore, we have expelled the students, we have improved the result automatically and they have ended up with an education that, if they do not get the title, will not allow them to get an ESO title or follow a middle-grade cycle. Therefore, in any case, sectarianism should apply to a law that failed to achieve what it wanted. Look at Catalonia: we have 60_percent of students getting beat up, 40_percent of students getting FP – that's what it is to be at European level–, we have prestige in professional training, we have reduced abandonment and we have nine business demands for formed cycles, such as water. So, please rethink this law. And what we won't do is accept money when the only one we do is secrete students. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the balance of the food line]] [[310-00060/11]] Seven questions to the government, on the balance of the food line. The question is posed by Ms. Maria Dolors Rovirola, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Last week, concretely from 25 to 28 April, was celebrated here in Barcelona the Fira Alimentaria 2016, a biannual fira dedicated to the world of food and gastronomy. More than 4,000 companies from all over the world participated, including 700 Catalans, and between these 700, 150 under Prodeca's umbrella. Food is a suitable framework for our agri-food industry for three reasons. First, because it is the apparator of our products, advancing to the needs of consumers, or because it creates trends as a way to add value to our products. Second, because it encourages the opening of our markets. And in this sense it must be remembered that agri-food exports from our country do not stop growing any more years, and it is consolidated as the industry sector with the total 18_percent of exports, a leading sector. Third, because the strategic size of this industry does not only derive from the production volume it generates, but also from other activities across the entire food chain, and has shown great capacity to cope with the crisis thanks to its innovative capacity, which has responded to competitive pressures from large changes in the world's agri-food sector. Returning to the fire, among other hot news would highlight this year the new Multiple Foods hall, with products suitable for the Mediterranean diet and other functional characteristics, such as the ecologists, the organics and the premium, and the presentation of Catalonia as the European Region of Gastronomy 2016. Counsel, what is the impact and balance that the Government in general does, and its Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food in concrete, of the food industry 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.60.0	Thank you, President. Certainly, honourable Member, the balance we make from the government, and in concrete terms from the Department of Agriculture, of this kind is very positive. Food is an event of reference in the field of food at European level, and also of the whole Mediterranean arc, and is comparable to fire like Sial, from Paris, or Anuga, from Cologne, to Germany. Therefore, it is one of the world's leading. In this sense, this year, plus, it hasn't been the 40th anniversary, has it? Forty years ago, from Food. And it's been quite a success. This means that we are in a mature sector, but in full dynamism. And that also proves, as you said, with 4,000 businesses, 200 more than last year, than the previous edition. Of these, 700 are Catalan companies present on this line. In addition, 140,000 professional participants from more than 157 different countries have registered. And this gives us an exhibition of the relevancy of our agri-food sector in the markets of the world. And to all this... I would also like to make the import of our agri-food sector, as God forbid. Our agri-food industry accounts for almost 20_percent of our industrial GDP, more than 25,000_million euros in business, more than 75,000 people directly occupied. Then you see all that you also wanted: indirect occupation, the ability to multiply and diversify the economy... For all this, the Food brand is an exceptional _mark, an exceptional _mark for the sector, but also for the government, to promote and promote these commercial relations and these, also institutional contacts. In fact, since the Council we have had occasion to speak and to have contacts with representatives of countries like Lebanon, countries like the Xina, or also with Korea, with which we begin, and diversify, and expand, our commercial relations, and also with, obviously, governments of the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain, the governments of these regions. At the same time, through Prodeca, we have also helped one hundred and fifty businesses in our country to be in pavilions, haven't we? , with the Catalonia brand also projecting the image of our country, and we have favored finding, finding, with other international operators. In general, Food is a platform for designing our country and boosting our sector. And the commitment of the government and the department is to continue to support this fire as much as the sector to project the country and, above all, to build the country we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the response to the Government of the State's appeal against the Law 24/2015, of urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty]] [[310-00061/11]] Vuitena asks the Government, on the response to the Spanish Government's appeal against the Law 24/2015, of urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty. The question is posed by Mr Eduardo Reyes, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.62.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Counselor... I am a Catalan born in Cordoba. A Catalan with a Spanish feeling, too. I am a Catalan born in Cordoba who cares and struggles for a better future for his daughter, born in Catalonia, and for his grandchildren. I care about our children and grandchildren. That's why I'm here, and that's why I'm independent. I'm not an independentist over a matter of flags. I'm not an independentist for a matter of feelings. I am because I am becoming more and more clear that this is the only way I can help our people. And it is becoming increasingly clear to us that we can only do this when we do not depend on the Government of the State and the Constitutional Court, when we have a new country. Because I, like most Catalans, see that every time this Parliament creates laws to respond to the needs of the families of this country, the State appeals them and the Constitutional Court suspends them. They use the courts to overthrow everything we do to improve the lives of Catalans, especially those who suffer the most. We're talking about this, we're talking about how to help people, all the people who live here, feel how they feel. We don't talk about identity, language, or origins. We're not talking about competition; we're talking about the lives of people living in our neighborhoods. This is just what I hope of my country, that it is next to the most vulnerable and that it does not suspend my Parliament when it tries, as it has done with Law 24/2015, a law that was made to prevent people from staying on the fucking street, so that they are not cut off from light, water or gas and so that men and women have the same rights. Counsel, what will be the Government's approach to this new attack by the Spanish Government? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.64.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, this government is working, and you know it, to have a good state and give answers to its citizens, because, for the time being, the state has it against it. But, while what we have to do, logically, is give response from the Government of Catalonia to the conjunction of the citizens and, therefore, in this sense, guarantee the rights that the citizens have and, among them, the right to a decent habitat. And in this sense, the government will not fail to make every effort to respond to the needy. The appeal and suspension of the law is unfair and excessive, and, moreover, we regret that the Spanish Government is judicializing all the laws that this Parliament has made in the matter of housing. They have all gone to the Constitutional Court and have been suspended by the Spanish Government, and this, therefore, withdraws from us the instruments, in this case the instruments we have at our disposal in order to be able to fulfil our obligations. I have maintained our obligations to ensure a decent habitat for all citizens, and this is a struggle that we will not let go of, but at the same time put us on the road to eliminate the tools we have at our disposal. With this the Spanish government has shown, for a band, disrespect, as you said, to this Parliament, which it approved unanimously this law. But, in addition, it gives up in a clear way that it is to give answers to the people and families who require it. So, in this sense, the answer has been clear and I think it is quick, too. He called himself, and yesterday he was able to see you, so... President Puigdemont summoned all the parliamentary groups, also the promoter group, as well as the assemblies and representatives of the assemblies, to try to give a joint response to a need that the people require. And in this summit we have placed ourselves in a position to be able to carry out in a clear way a single bill of reading to give answer, and therefore a useful tool to the Government, but also to the different joints, because they can, therefore, supply everyone with this habitat that they require. That no one doubts: before the clashes, I believe, without feeling, that the Spanish government does about some laws that the only one they do is to guarantee the citizens' rights, the answer will be clear. It is to give a unique answer and, more importantly, I believe that the more we invest, the more united we will be to secure the rights of Catalans. With these, don't play games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the deployment of the Law 10/2015, in vocational training and qualification]] [[310-00062/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the deployment of the Law 10/2015, professional training and qualification. The question is posed by Mrs Maria Senserrich, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.66.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor: Last year, this Parliament approved Catalonia's Vocational Training and Qualification Law with the support of 89 percent of the Members of this House. We know that it is a necessary law that will mark both before and after the professional formation of our country. That's why Together for Yes we defend firmly the object of this law, which is to integrate the two existing subsystems, that is, initial vocational training and training for occupation. All this, in order to promote the level of vocational training, to facilitate the occupation and the professional improvement of people and, above all, to enhance an authentic training to the length of people's lives. For example, this law will allow us to hold the integrated information, guidance, advice on the set of possibilities of the system, or also the regular evaluation and accreditation service of professional skills. I mean, a law that they want to accompany and not impose, a law that wants people to have opportunities, not impose them or separate them, as you did before. Now, this model we want to guarantee a quality of the system with five premises. The first, continuous improvement of the centres; the second, establishment of integrated vocational training centres; the third, innovation in vocational training and permanent training also of the teacher; the fourth, promote the attitude of the entrepreneurial initiative of the people, and the fifth, periodic evaluation by the Public Agency of the Vocational Training and Qualification System. And not only that, but we pretend that we sleep at European standards because we want to be a European country, an exemplary country where people have opportunities, not just with certain studies, but in all those who think they need to be for their future. That's why we know that you and President Puigdemont have started this legislature, that one of these objectives would be this deployment of this law of professional training. We also know that the other day they announced that they would take a first step. That is why the motion of our question today to the plenary: we would like to know, Counselor, what is the current situation in which the deployment of the aforementioned law of professional training in Catalonia is found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.68.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, as you have rightly said, this is a law that has had a lot of consensus in this Parliament, and this is what educational laws must have, a lot of consensus that there is ample time for it to be deployed, and precisely what it does is this integration of the two subsystems with different instruments. One of them is the Public Training and Qualification Agency, but also the Board of Directors, which will establish the strategic guidelines and evaluate the system. From here what we have done is the first deployment as the law makes, which is to give the guidelines for the elaboration of the accreditation plans. This process was carried out with extensive participation, not only with the Department of Labour and the Department of Education, but also with the participation of trade unions, employers, trade unions and municipal authorities. As you know, accreditation plans, which already do, are instruments that want to improve the qualifications and employability of people who lack qualifications. What these guidelines do, which is what this Parliament asked for, is that we approve these guidelines that must contain the annual plans. Therefore, let it not be that these Vaginal accreditation plans are based on different calls, but that here there is a compromise of a stable and permanent action of the different departments so that these accreditation plans are multiannual and contain a whole series of elements. As you know, what these qualification processes do is to allow those people who do not have sufficient qualifications to believe that they have acquired competence in their working life or in non-formal learning processes so that they can either believe or have qualifications in skills or so that they can acquire an FP title or a certificate of professionalism. From here, what we have done with these guidelines, which have already been approved in the previous government, is to give a whole structure to these plans. First of all, a diagnosis, and this is very important: to determine the needs of the country and to determine which should be the priority collections; to mark the objectives, to explain those specific objectives, the actions and the indicators; to contain also the target people, and this is very important because we need to know how to detect those collections with the most lack of training, those collections that can be more quickly– let me say – without the ability to get a job, and to allocate the majority of resources. We also talk about human resources, we talk about calendars – they will be multi-year plans – we talk about financing these plans and a follow-up and an evaluation. These accreditation plans are very important tools to advance towards the best of our country's competitiveness, and we believe that, moreover, it is a great engine of training.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on relations with the governments of the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Country]] [[317-00039/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.70.0	Thank you, President. President, last April 25th, last week, he took place in Valencia the celebration of the national day with a remarkable success of participation and at the same time with a, I believe, degree meant to leave behind a disjointed and cruel time for the same people valence, a time when a political class has left behind and occupied prominent places in the spheres of corruption and – why not say so? – to Mafialy hear political action, at a time when this same political class has dynamized any points of conflict or encounter between Valencia and Catalonia. The Valencia country today has a democratic awakening in which there are record moments, both for the memory of Guillem Aguló, Miquel Grau, and for the recovery of public space. All a recognition, therefore, for all those who have kept the flame of language and culture burning for so many years. But it is also a moment of political opportunity – political opportunity – to be proactive in restoring TV3 broadcasts to the Valencian country, as well as the return of Valencian Radiotelevision, Channel 9 when it returned to issue, to place them in a meeting with their counterparts in the Valencian country and also in the Islands, why not? , to weave new and fraternal accomplices in the area of the Catalan Countries, an area where many of the groups represented here in this Parliament, we know that neither goes nor sees them, an area that they always deny, but whenever they have the opportunity to fight with all their strength. They are the same people who deny the unit of language and understand fraternity only from the states. For us, for the CUP, the Valencia Country, like the Islands, forms part of this national area, the area of the Catalan Countries. And is it from interest for these Catalan Countries, for the will to weave complicitys, for the need to build bridges and entities that help our peoples to advance on paths of solidarity, justice and freedom, that we ask, president: form part of their institutional agenda and of government the construction of these complicitys, the recovery of these entities, the political will to converge into common interests, already in the cultural, economic or political perspective, with the Government of the Islands and of the Valencia Country?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality, Mr Carles Puigdemont.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.72.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, you have made an exact description of what the Valencian policy has been about these past years and whose lacks of a particular culture have been of hearing politics, politics in an area, in fact, that has to do with economic promotion, the policy that has to do with the country model, the policy that has to do with understanding with its surroundings. It's, like, cremated land, devastated land, like Attila's horse. And greeting, therefore – just as you do – that there is what you say, this democratic awakening that gives us the opportunity to make a recognizance of the people that exist, and that is a lot, that has resisted both the defense of acts of denunciation of abuses and corruptions such as the defense of Catalan language and culture in these spaces, because thanks to these defenses – that have been made from different positions –, today, certainly, in this area of Catalan speaking countries we can see opportunities to work together, to reach agreements and, yes – let's say – I do so, to respond concretely to whether part of the government's agenda and of my own willful thesis in this agenda is actually in place. In fact – in fact – this is already happening; it is not by chance that IB3 is already here in Catalonia, in the Principality, because there is a will of a government, with whom we have a good relationship, and we hope that when the broadcasts of Valencian public television are resumed there will be no obstacle – which for our part will not be – because there can also be here. And to do everything possible for this knowledge interface, an interface on the same language, an interface of common interests that go further, also, from culture and language: they go to the field of infrastructure, the defense of the Mediterranean rail corridor occupied by Councillor Rull, who has already moved to Valencia for his defence, and extend this influence further, even further, to Murcia and Almeria, if appropriate, is an example of what I say to him. Or not to speak of Ramon Llull, that councilman Vila, therefore, has a special interest, just to shield a space of finding the countries that share the same language and the same culture. So, in this sense, apart from having telephone and good phone calls, we also have, for what it does to the financing system, the distribution of the deficit in particular, the understanding is very good and we will be able to take advantage of all and every opportunity that shields us from what you say in this democratic awakening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.73.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the request for meetings with the Presidents of the European Commission and the European Parliament]] [[317-00040/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.74.0	Thank you. Mr President, the last day you said to a media outlet that "the day I propose to see a commissioner or another European authority, I will do it and I will do it. Today, day, the question is the following: do you say and maintain this type of confirmation? I kept that he did not ask to meet with the President of the European Commission or the President of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.76.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Member, exactly, you ask me whether I asked for a meeting with Commissioner Juncker, the representative of the European Commission or the President of the European Parliament. I didn't ask for it. Do I ask if I'll ask her? Yeah. Is she going to have a place? Yeah. And, plus, I'm gonna give him proof that this is gonna happen. Do you know who he got a week ago – a week ago today – Mr. Juncker? To the Prime Minister of Kosovo. Do you know why he is Prime Minister, Mr Mustafa, of Kosovo? Through a unilateral declaration of independence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.77.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.78.0	I, President, must say to you with all due respect that I was very concerned about your response. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm worried that you're comparing Kosovo with Catalonia, because those of us who have a certain age remember the episodes that at the beginning of the 1990s lived in that territory. Therefore, they require caution and balance in the following five types of comparison. Mr President, it seems to me that you have either tried to lie in your parliamentary office or have deceived him, which can also be. Not so alone, and through an electronic mail, you asked for a meeting with the President of the European Parliament, with the President of the European Commission, but also for meetings, you asked for meetings with two Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament and with a Commissioner. Moreover, you referred to your full hourly availability to be rejected by some European authority. What I would ask of you, Mr Puigdemont, is that, please, you don't make a fool of yourself when you go to Europe, because when you do this kind of position and this type of action isn't so simple it's put on the ridiculous yourself, that here it's very free to do what you think it is, but it puts the whole political class and especially the people of Catalonia on the ridiculous. To present oneself to the European authorities as if he were the president of an independent republic is not to be at the height of circumstances and leave us to all folds, and especially to you, as evidence. I would tell you that this reflection that the trip was a failure, that the trip put us in a compromise to all folds, not just the day after the opposition, but I can assure you, and we know that it is, that it has been shared by some members of your government who are very close to you. From the People's Party we defend the foreign policy in which it refers to helping to promote Catalan businesses, to help to promote abroad Catalonia from a touristic point of view, but not to export some designs and models that unfortunately here, to Catalonia and Spain, we already know, but that we ask you to try, from the prudence, not to externalize...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.79.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.80.0	...to the image, to the good image of all. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.81.0	Thank you, but time has run out. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.82.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, don't worry, when I send a signed letter with my name and punch and mail it to a person interested in you who knows and whom I asked for an interview, I'll make a copy of it. He won't find it, this card you're saying. Another thing is that Catalonia's permanent representation before the European Union always varies, monitoring the possibility of an interview with the highest European authorities. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because that's what's going to happen, because that's going to happen. And believe me: as I said in the statements to the press, at the time when you probably pass who will be most interested in talking to Catalonia will be the European Union. And I'll tell you something about the ridiculous – about the ridiculous – that you're very concerned about. Does Spanish politics and the Spanish state make a fool of itself when the ambassador has to cease in Belgium, precisely, for the sake of thought and for the sake of authority? Does he make a fool of himself? [[Widow's remorse.]] Is this the model of diplomacy... is this the model of diplomacy that you recommend to us? [[Greetings.]] Because that's what happened. Is it a model to continue to lead to the falsification of an official European Commission response as you have done? Is this a model to follow? [[Greetings.]] That's doing the ridiculous thing. Did he read the press today? Do you know what the European Commission says? That he is very concerned about Spain and its incompliments, and that there is something that was not raised with Greece, that is to put many in the Spanish State for his, already, incompetence to complete the deficit and the fixed objectives. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's doing the ridiculous thing in front of the world. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.83.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.84.0	And do you know what it's like to be ridiculous, Mr. Albiol? A few days ago, the Spanish government assumed before the European Union – this can be read at the press today – of the tax on empty floors. And it turns out that the tax on empty floors, your government has brought it to the Constitutional Court and prevents us from approving it. That's right, Mr. Albiol, that's ridiculous. And I assure you that in the European Union, and with the people I have seen me from Flemish politics, these things have not been very well known. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.85.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the inn at the expense of the mechanisms that the Government has at the abst to deal with the situation of social emergence]] [[317-00042/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.86.0	Thank you, President. Yes, I hope so, Mr. President, let's get some gas shorts, though. Yesterday, congratulate them, first place, for the meeting that held place to Palau, called for its government, where social entities, unions, political forces, municipal representatives, to give answer, therefore, to the appeal submitted for the government of the PP, govern in function, against the Law of Housing Emergency. Support also the idea of establishing a new legal instrument to try to pal·liare, so, or recover the aspects that have been damaged by this intervention of the central government. But yesterday, just in this meeting, the participants, unions, social entities, above all, put two things into replenishment: one, the need to apply and develop with energy the possibilities that offer the existing standards and legal resources still existing, and, in another band, the need to replace financial entities and large sub-government operators to meet their responsibilities. Beyond the elaboration of this new law, does your government think that the instruments that you have at your disposal and that have not yet been applied are to go?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.88.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Rabell, let's leave it to your first appreciation of the question. I take this opportunity to thank the presence and active participation of all parliamentary groups in this chamber, without exception, and also the people who were happy to attend a meeting that I believe sent a first message. We don't expect much more, actually. And you're right that we have a few possibilities that we have to try to resort to. For what you're asking me, I'm already telling you that we're completely compromised and we're doing it. And the proof is that we have approved, now a couple of governments, a new summons to be able to donate a destination to the money that we have left from the previous summons to deal with the energy emergency, which will be made available to families and people who are in this situation. But in any case, we will go through all the instruments – we will make them serve, go – that give us the legislation that is under consideration, the legislation that is not under consideration, and the legislation that is under consideration, through this law that we hope to see here, in Parliament, now, and the rest of the things that we still need.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.89.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.90.0	Thank you very much, President. Yes; we would insist on a couple of questions that..., and in this sense we gather the feeling of concern about what social entities were expressing at the meeting. There is a need, on the part of the Government of the Generality, we think, to lead the response and coordinate the response of municipal entities, which are facing this situation in the first line. In this sense, the deployment of regulations is an urgent matter. And there are measures that can be applied and resources that are in supply and that can be promoted – the Law of the Right to Housing of 2007 in count, in count of important and that have not been deployed with all the necessary intensity. We think, in particular, that if it is constituted, a new legal entity should be given priority in recovering those potentialities from the law of 2007 which were nullified by the laws of the Member States, laws which, precisely in this case, did not come from the central government, but from the Government of the Generality, to remind us. In a word, we, for everything that is mobilizing public opinion, mobilizing citizens to recover and defend rights, will find us at the side. What we would not want is for such a sensitive thing, a country problem of these characteristics and of this gravity to be the occasion of a simple gesture without firm commitments and without a direct placement of the Generality to those who are responsible for this situation in the first place, who are the banks and the big operators. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.92.0	Yes; thank you very much. Mr. Rabell, you agree with me, as it was made clear yesterday, that the instrument that he was giving us... the tools that he was giving us the law now suspected were the tools that the local world needed to avoid disclaimers, to respond to situations that call to heaven and to give, let us say, a horizon of hope to many people who belong to vulnerable collectivities. We agree it was a good point of finding. And, therefore, let's put it in these terms: all that's the point of finding the different sensitivities that we found ourselves yesterday is what needs to be part of this new legal tool of what we have undertaken to equip ourselves with. And I think we're in the right direction – I think we're in the right direction. And, in fact, some of the decisions that could form part of or be unplugged around this law, some, they're already making, they're making themselves. This week, for example, we have called the denunciation table, where financial entities are already present. We agreed, and we got 1,830 habitats, and we'll have more. The rule to which you refer is to public exposure. All this, why did it happen? It happened because there's a law and an articulate, yes. But I believe that someone here pointed out the importance he had as a pressure element in order to obtain suitable, to obtain voluntary disposals of habitats and to be able to reduce the risk and vulnerability of many people in this country. If we are able to do this collectively, because we have indicated that this is not a matter of government to government or institution to institution, but it is a collection, if we are able to do it, that I am convinced that we will do it in the next days–days–, we will give a very good answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.93.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the compliment of Resolution 17/XI, on the situation of social emergency, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response]] [[317-00041/11]] Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, yesterday we had this meeting, which has already been mentioned, and there was a great deal of willingness. I think there's a shared diagnosis, a bunch of folded work, but every time these meetings are over, there's a doubt about whether you're talking and doing things that go hand in hand and, above all, if you're going fast enough. And this comment goes down because we have recently rejected a letter from the Poor Zero- Global Justice platform in which concern is expressed about the inn's march of the agreements sunk in this Chamber with Ple's motion on social emergence. And that's why I want to ask him how the government intended to compliment the many agreements approved in that House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.96.0	Yes; thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, you know that we are giving compliments to the agreements of the plenary of the poor, that we have to convene the follow-up committee to make an assessment of this, of these first passes, and that somehow the fusion of the table of the poor energy and the table for denunciations was going on in this sense, and this has already happened. So let's move on. It is normal and surely correct to think that there is the risk that words are left in words and that it is not passed on to the fetuses. I insist, adding and reiterating the answer that I have already given to Mr. Rabell before, that I believe that in your own days, we will all see, that this explicit political compromise is transformed into us instruments that only have an objective, that it is not to confront ourselves at an institution or to play a game of games, but that it is to serve the people who, especially because of the presence of mayors and mayors who have come to it, know that they are the main victims of this decision of the Spanish Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.97.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.98.0	Thank you, President. I always want my questions to have a sense of more impetus to government than pure and hard opposition, and from this point of view we try to be purposeful, and I take advantage of the request made by Lluís Rabell, on behalf of his parliamentary group, that in this legal instrument we need to recover those elements that the law itself has escaped from the Housing Law. But, President, I do not want to see in my words any doubt whatsoever about this Parliament's resolutions, all of them, and therefore I do not want to see it in my own words. Now, some of them will only be able to see them when we have a draft press about the table and see if they fit in or not. And some, in change, do not require this presuppositional mark. You were talking about the follow-up committee on the plan, the plenary of the poor. One week to go; therefore, we must run. Two: we all regret an appeal from the PP government, but we should also regret that the statutory deployment of that law had not yet occurred. Three: We still haven't seen the retail reverse report in primary care. Four: we have not yet seen the deployment of the law or the Covenant on Children and we are a few days away from the parliamentary mandate. Therefore, we will always be on the side of the Government in all those claims that are right, always underlining what you said: we are much more interested in the concrete solution of the problems than the party or intergovernmental sting; but also, the same way that we want to be first to cost it, we also want to be the first to demand that you do the things that are at your hands and do not fall from any other institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.100.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. I take note and agree with you that many of the measures, not all of them, are right to have them on the assumption. And I am convinced that if you see them reflected on the premise, you will have one more argument to help us pull forward an instrument that I have identified many times as indispensable. Miri, on May 20th at eleven o'clock in the morning, the meeting is convened, as you know, to follow up on the measures of social emergence in which the Government will participate and the groups will participate; therefore, we are giving it exactly a compliment..., and there you can see, too, what is the work that we have done so far and what is the full road that in this area we have planted with the Government. And you'll see... you'll see, more than that, another thing, which was left here yesterday, I think, quite explicitly, and I've tried to print all the actions in this area of government. We take this, always, as a country response, not as a response from a government or an administration with strictly administrative measures, but we are aware that this is a coral response, that the local world and other actors are essential, that this is an answer that cannot be found only in the standard's letter, but that, above all, there is hope, and hope is that it cannot be cancelled in any case by government decision, and that, in the end, the results must be measurable in terms of people with help, families with help, in the sphere of energy as well as in the field of housing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the response to the situation of social emergence]] [[317-00038/11]] Fourteen questions the government, about the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.102.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, yesterday we held a meeting in the Palau of the Generality between the Government, the social entities, local entities and parliamentary groups, which, as we said yesterday, we do not appreciate the call, we believe it was an uncertain and necessary meeting, especially after the suspension of certain articles of Law 24/2015. We went to this meeting with a very constructive spirit, to look for realist solutions to the current situation. And, at the meeting, he spoke of new proposals, he was reminded, too, of things that have not been done by the Government of the Generality and that nobody prevents, because they have not resorted to these articles, and he spoke, too, of good practices from the assemblies. We are concerned, however, that the only novelty that the Government of the Generalitat has said is to approve a new law that can reproduce the articles that have been suspected by the Constitutional Court. That's what would produce another time a suspension, most likely, and leave another time in the same situation of frustration and unprotective people, and also the gatherings and entities that are working in this situation. Our question is: do you continue with this approach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.104.0	Yes; many thanks, Mrs. Arrimadas. Indeed, I believe that this spirit of construction that you describe corresponds to reality, and I want to thank all groups, once more, for their willingness to find answers, each from their sensitivity and from their priorities. Let it be said that the deployment of the two rules, one that is exposed to the public, as you know, is already a way that the government is doing the dues that are close to it. What exactly did I say yesterday? , answer to what – and you were able to hear from many mayors – ask us, especially the local world: measures and tools that are practical, that are useful and that have legal certainty. I think we're a huge majority here, it wasn't unanimous, but a huge majority agree. I, the one I said, and the one I proposed, and the one that, in fact, is already working there, went exactly in this direction: giving tools that are practical, useful and sure, gathering to what is not suspicious and reformulating..., I did not say exactly literally ‘calculate, because it seems to me that it would actually lead to a path like you described..., but to interpret the hope that we all agree on the unanimous approval to give a new legal instrument that we are absolutely sure that it is the one that has to prosper and that it is the eine that we need to serve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.105.0	Thank you, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.106.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We were worried about a reproduction, because that's all I could do is reproduce the current situation. It is clear that the Government of Spain at these times is far from the social sensitivities and the dialect that must be held in these circumstances, but it is also true that we are concerned that the Government of the Generality makes use of this situation to have a great excuse not to do the dues that we can do. You must remember all the things that have not been suspected and that, therefore, are the responsibility of the Generality, and that today had not been done; as you have said: regulatory deployment of certain laws, not signed with the subcontractors, not enough resources have been given to the payment of the lloger, not even a 20_per_cent of a solid foundation of care, and there have been many principles of the Housing Law of 2007 that have never been completed. I'll tell you what we'll do: we'll try to change the rules to all of Spain, because this will be a great protection for Catalans. Many of the principles of these laws that have been suspected are a matter of competition, and we want them to be regulations that apply to all of Spain and, of course, also to Catalonia. We want to push instruments with legal certainty, and that's why we registered a new law yesterday to help vulnerable people pay for basic sub-administrations; but what we won't do is confrontation and disobedience, because there's nothing more useful for big companies than this situation of legal insecurity. We ask for coordination and we ask for all the efforts of the Government of Catalonia, and in this sense it will have us at its side. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.107.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.108.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. I take note of this final note, that I am convinced that we will have occasions from June 26th, probably, to put it to practice, this will to keep it at the side, to keep it at the side, in the defense of the citizens of Catalonia, before the Government of the State. You have to know that they have bought flats..., they have bought flats from the tax that has been charged to the main entities having empty flats. Certainly, half of this import was paid for by the Sareb, that is, the Spanish State, which is responsible for the majority of empty floors in an accredited demand situation. You know that they're helping each other together to accompany them in their policies, and you know that they've helped each other, too, people to be able to fight back... and that they've returned to everyone. And that as far as the people he's asked for help in the energy poverty fund..., as far as the people are concerned, the light has been cut off. You said in the end, or at the beginning of this second part of the intervention, and you complained quite rightly, and I share it, and you say: "The Government of Spain is far away. No, no... it's that there's no government – it's that there's no government. And we carry a lot of months without government and I'm afraid until September there won't be any government. And this concerns us especially, because it affects the people who are waiting, in the end, for the answers of their political leaders, because that is why they are learning from us, not to make parliamentary tripjokes to see who is the most maco, who is more favored in the photograph of Spanish ingovernance. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.109.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the State's actions against the laws approved by the Parliament of Catalonia and on the answer to be given]] [[317-00043/11]] Fifteenth question to the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.110.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, since the last plenary there have been two meetings at the highest level with the central government in office; on the table various themes, all of them important. On one side, obviously, to convey the determination of this Parliament and of this Government in order to make..., complete the democratic mandate of 27 September. For the other band, also more than forty issues related to State incompliments, as well as a follow-up of questions that are more than day by day and that affect, and much, and in denial, the citizens of Catalonia, with a petition expressed to the State that seems to abuse their prerogatives for which they demand the suspension of many of the things that we approve of in this Parliament, especially those that generate a series of rights to the most vulnerable people, as well as those normative ones that we approve here that seek more resources, more money, without burdening the Catalans with taxes, to precisely target the city of Catalonia. That they would not find receptivity, therefore, of the Spanish government for what it does to the independence process that sees Catalonia, therefore, was predictable and was conceivable. But let a government that fills its mouth that we have to do is dedicate ourselves to what worries the citizens of Catalonia – that we do not stop doing it, just every day – ; let it fill its mouth with the dialect, with everything that affects the citizens of Catalonia that will now come to us to say once and another time that they want Catalonia, that they love Catalonia, that they regard Catalans, etc., therefore, what was not expected is that the answer in these two findings follows more resources to the Constitutional Court, more suspensions of regulations that approve this Parliament on issues that are absolutely nuclear for the defense of the rights of the citizens of Catalonia. And that no one is mistaken, that no one is mistaken: this is not a matter of political battles that pay for broken meals are precisely the citizens of Catalonia, and the proof we wanted to have yesterday, that very different people, very different ideologies, institutions governed by very different people, we almost agreed to a cause that is to protect the most vulnerable. This is not a matter of political battles, this is a subject of sensitivity: whether or not you understand or not you respect the most vulnerable. And, in the case of the State, it joins the fact of not being sensitive to its sectarianism. That's why we, president, want to ask him what value it makes, what state's actions respect the citizen of Catalonia, and what do you think the answer should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.112.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. I think you ask a question that many people are formulated: what do we have to say before what is already a finding of a failure? Miri, fifteen days ago, exactly fifteen days ago, I was meeting with the President-in-Office, the Spanish President-in-Office, and he was delivering a series of complaints, some of which they have to see, the first point, concretely, with the majority wish of this Parliament: to gather the popular will to start a full road to independence, and to do so in a dialogue. According to the big package: of the State's incompliments in the application of laws that are in force and approved, and, therefore, remind him that, to complete the laws, when they say so, that is given by the wishes. Another package that obviously has to do with the unfair distribution of the floor because this has direct consequences for the quality of life and the services that are provided to Catalans. And a package that you have to see, too, with which it begins to be a dismal obsession of the Spanish government that is the bust of the judicial route to settle..., to settle, no, eh? I think to mess with a little bit more, political questions. Therefore, fifteen days after having made an attempt and a week after the vice president is meeting with the vice president also in the same address, it is to say, we make proposals, it is to say, we practice the dialect, which is always what is claimed, proposals and dialects, therefore, look, from the Catalan side, fifteen days and a week after that the frail of the..., for the misunderstanding and the absence and the Spanish resignation is round. Not only that – not just that – but on these fifteen days we have found remedies in the Constitutional Court, remedies that hurt us..., not us, they hurt people, and it is clear that we too, but it hurts people. And they hurt the people who suffer the most, precisely. So when we heard about the resources and the suspense effects that we had asked them not to apply, because it is a political power and it is a political decision that has suspensive effects, the answer is clear: "We understand the message. Mr Rajoy, we have understood the message. And, therefore, if there is more of the same..., and I hope not to pay copyright to Mrs. Arrimadas, because there must have been seven the second time in this House that we would have to pay copyright for this expression..., if there is more of the same in Madrid, we have understood the message, not that I insist. And so, we're going to pull as we've usually said. What have we found, more than that, in these fifteen days? The absolute incapacity of the Spanish government and the Spanish policy to give answers, and we will find ourselves engaged in some nine elections that will cost the public 160_million euros. Therefore, the whims and political games of the Spanish political system cost, of entry, 160_million euros, which are perfectly stable for the taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the day's smell, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As the new composition of the People's Equality Commission is included in the file that has been distributed to all Members and Members, the plea that its reading has been completed. Completing the rule 49.2, we now move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Member's compatibility situation]] [[234-00148/11]] The third point on the agenda is the compatibility situation of a Member. The first secretary, Anna Simó, will read out the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies which has been published in the plenary file. I would ask the secretary to read the opinion first.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.114.0	"The Commission of the Status of Deputies, at its plenary session on 19 April 2016, agreed to draw up the following opinion. After examining the data declared for the deputy María Francisca Valle Fuentes concerning the professional, labour or business activities which she carries out and the public authorities which she occupies, in addition to Article 23.1b of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission shall take into account the legislation applicable in the matter of the incompatibility of the Members, in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Rules of Procedure, proposing to the plenary the compatibility situation of the deputy María Francisca Valle Fuentes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.115.0	Is this opinion approved, for lack of consent? [[Pause.]] If, therefore, there is no objection, this opinion is approved. [[Report of the Syndic of Greuges to the Correspondent Parliament in 2015]] [[360-00005/11]] Let's move now to the fourth point of the order of the day, which is: presentation of the Report of the Greuges Synod to the corresponding Parliament in 2015. I would like to greet, in the name of the chamber, the syndic of heavyweights, Mr. Rafael Ribó, and the members of his team who are accompanying us today in this plenary session. In accordance with Article 178.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the trade union shall make the presentation of the general summary of the annual report. There's a word from Mr. Rafael Ribó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.116.0	Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] When you say it. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.117.0	I've got the word the syndic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.118.0	Thank you, President. I am prepared to present to the plenary of Parliament the 2015 Report of the Greuges Syndic, which was released to the chamber on February 11, 2016, and which we will accompany with a demand to all administrations, entities and companies that are subject, by law, to control for the guarantee of rights by the syndic that promote the recovery of social rights, equal opportunities and democratic radicality. This report has passed through the debate of the Commission of the Syndic of Greuges, and today it is presented to the plenary. In this report, as the law says, there is all the activity due to end in 2015, all the actions. There is a first distance that introduces what we consider to be the most outstanding; then there will be all the quantitative elements, and then, in the realms, the actions of complaints and of offices that we have been addressing, the resolutions that have not been accepted and also an exhibition of what has been completed, together with the institutional activity of diffusion and training generated by the syndic. Together with this, you know that we submit two other reports annually: the one on children's rights, which was released to Parliament on 9 September 2015, and the one on the Catalan mechanism for the prevention of torture and ill-treatment, and, lastly, on behalf of this chamber, we will submit a _fourth annual report, in July, which will correspond to the themes of the field of transparency and access to information, which we are already preparing and for which we will work with the Administration, with the Department of Government, with municipal authorities and with the Chambers, to explain the progress of Catalonia, which means this new right and the transparency of citizens. It's a report covering a year in which all local governments have been renewed. There has been an electoral process in Catalonia and one at the state level, and there has been, again, massive mobilizations with civic and political expressions of great diversity, with a great living of the associated fabric and that, from the perspective of the rights, would deserve a higher degree of recognition of everything that means, when most of the Catalan society claims the political subject matter. We are again addressing all governments, beginning with the presidency of the Generality, because we are firmly advancing towards democracy, transparency, pluralism and freedom; because we are putting at the forefront of our declarations the principle of equality of opportunity in all public policies; and because we are mimicking the policies of combating the vulnerability of the various collections that clearly affect the effects of the economic crisis. If I'm allowed a quick incursion into the ciphers, let's know that for the first time, the barrier of the two thousand complaints to the Greuges Syndicum has been overcome. Between complaints and official actions we have gone to 10,547, plus 205: it wants 11,000, and that with consultations we approach 25,000 complaints, which means that there is a great contribution of complaints, especially individual ones, also some collectives, and that we can talk about a processing that affects 48,599 petitions or complaints or consultations presented to the syndic. We're clean at 50,000. In this sense, it clearly reflects what is happening to our society and where major erosions or impairments of rights are being painted. It is worth saying that, regardless of the fact that the complaint curve has been rising since 2005, so that if we talk about 3,617 complaints in 2005, we are more or less likely to triple that number from six years ago – and therefore with various parliamentary colors to make governments – there is an accent on complaints in social issues. And they have gone through a lot of other issues as they are usually the main object of complaints to the Ombudsman, which we could usually say 'bureaucratic', which is now almost in the third place; it is first of all the whole package of social issues, and second of all, a package that is growing, which is what we call 'consumer', but which directly affects many rights. In this distance we also see very clear things that, moreover, are rabidly up to date for events that have occurred in the last few days, and that involve administrations and businesses that serve general interest, despite being private companies. And there is also an increase in activities on territorial issues. Other matters remain in parameters similar to other years, and, thirdly, as I said, the issue that affects the administered procedure remains. We must say that we have reached 98,4_percent of the syndic's resolutions, totally or partially accepted. We want to tell you that we are still dissatisfied because in mature democracies it reaches a hundred per cent. That's to say, we're still evil to get there, to get there if it can't be only partially, but totally. But it means that we are moving forward between administrations and businesses and syndicate with a climate of good collaboration and resolving issues such as citizenship. I have to add, like every year, that not all the complaints that we receive from the syndic are accepted by way or all the accepted ones involve irregularities. It is worth saying that we speak of a 49,1_percent of possible irregularities, a 32,8 of non-irregularities, a 7,5 of complaints in which he gives up at the length of his journey, a 4,1 that is transferred to other institutions – as can the judiciary or other defenders, because they do not correspond to us – and, lastly, a 6,4 of complaints not admitted. We follow these accepted resolutions so that we don't get what we call "bumerang": it is accepted and at the end of three months it comes back because despite the fact that it is said that yes, it is going to complete what it is said that it was accepted. We are no longer doing so, but we are following a large number of promoters and administrations or companies at the top of three or nine months, and we must say that in no case has the failure of previously accepted resolutions occurred. And that, in this sense, means that less than 1_percent of resolutions have only partially been completed. Again, I think that we should congratulate ourselves on this very fact, that it is both the responsibility of the administrations and businesses, as well as the institution of the syndic. It is worth saying that there is almost a parity in the profile of the syndic's users between women and men. More women in the case of social policies and in cases that may affect consumer matters, much less before they are men, in this case, and more men in the case of public administration or citizen security. In other subjects, practically, there is an equality. We're failing the syndicate, and I want to signal them. We still have plenty of time in the resolution of the complaints. It is obvious that they do not rely solely on the syndic, they also depend on the time that administrations and businesses triage to answer us. And we're already rushing them, and we're still rushing them as fast as we can, but I'm responsible. Still people cheat too much to know the result of the complaints they raise. And it's a first failure that we want to keep correcting. There's one: we're still getting a degree of knowledge on the part of the population that's too low so it can be a public service that's used freely and quickly on the part of people who may think they've had a damaged right. It is worth saying, in this sense, that I can handle it, above all because it adds a very important beam load, but it does – as is the assessment of transparency to all administrations and all public entities, we would need more means, as the Bureau of Parliament has already seen, in order to be able to dispose of the assumption of possibilities in front of it. It is worth saying, lastly, that we continue with a will of territorial presence to all Catalonia despite the fact that there is a single institution with office, to passeig Lluís Companies, number 7. We have made one hundred and thirty trips to the territories of Catalonia, by barrels or villas of Catalonia. And, in this sense, this generates 10_percent vora of the actions initiated by the syndic. So, despite the fact that many actions are growing via information media, above all, face-to-face contact at its headquarters, there has been an increase in credibility and contact flow through these territorial displacements. I already enter the concrete subjects that we want to highlight for that triple cry to improve or change public policies. First, for what he does to social rights, as Stefano Rodotà, great professor of La Sapienza de Roma, we have right to hold rights, we have right to have rights. And that, sometimes, we forget. And we have a right to stand up, beyond the law. There's no legal barrier to progressing on the right. Ask yourself, especially, the ladies, if they could vote if they had kept the line with the law. Arreu, and especially in mature democracies, there is a constant effort to go to the right time – that will never be able to stand up to the cent_per_cent – and overcome the constant impediments that can also come from a legal bottleneck. And on social rights, that's clear. And with what's going on today, which I'll mention with examples of the past year, that's clear. Social rights, as I said, occupy, as far as complaints are concerned, a third of the syndic's actions in 2015. As a result of the management of social benefits, there are repeated deficiencies in the coverage of situations of social needs; or delays in the payment of amounts derived from these benefits; or a lack of very unique care of persons, especially in the case of dependency, of the named dependency, the law of personal autonomy, or which is the minimum income of insertion. Actions that, in these cases, do not conform to good administrative practice, that can even be legal, but they are poor administration, and affect rights, and that we need to correct, as legal as it is. And in this sense, we have found that, for example, the motivation of denials of minimum returns, sometimes, is not enough, is omitted the hearing process previewed to the resolution; or the postponements in defaults and delays for which the Law of Dependence affects, or, obviously, the year 2015, the complaints that we have with respect to the adjournment for the entry into the system of dependent persons in grade I; likewise, in the case of persons who reside and complain about residential services, who are clearly vulnerable, where there are lists of hopes where they are not accessed, in order to guarantee a system of consultation, or there is proof of transparency, with a file that rejects the general status of such persons who are not connected with the subject matter, or who are not related to the subject matter. It is further from this distance, also in social rights, that, in which we could call 'consumption, there are social rights affected: in basic sub-administrations, in that in a report of the syndic proposed, according to the United Nations and the European Union, that there is a first degree of basic services that should be for everyone, guarantees everyone. There will be a _second degree, which should be proportionally adequate, and a third degree of extra expense that could even be the object of a certain contribution gain for whom you want to exceed yourself in this. But the first degree should be guaranteed for everyone, and face emergencies both in the case of energy poverty and in the case of housing. That is to say, for what it does to the relationship between the people and the providers of these services, there is often a relationship of clear inequality; there is a notable lack of information with consumers, all of them, and a position of ownership by companies. And we have to get through this. We're not customers, we're people. And it has to be thought of by everyone, in this relationship, that we are people who have rights, beyond the business relationship as customers. It is worth saying, in this sense, that we have to put forward, with strength, what it means, in this case of social rights, the right to housing, the right to access to a suitable housing, to be able to assume its economic cost, with social logger yields, with clear amortization rates that are comparable in the case of property. The syndic has presented, from three years ago, and thanks to professional colleges, social movements, entities, and also in collaboration with financial entities, reports where we put forward something as simple as what is being done in France or Germany. Who's got the second chance? Travel north of the Pyrenees, vagina in Alemanya, and see what happens with the second opportunity. How is it possible that you want to stop a right as elementary as this, that you were practicing by unanimous decision of this chamber, by social pressure, and that now it seems that we have to go ahead. Why don't we raise him from the Spanish State? Why don't we get something that's normal in mature democracies to be useful in our home too to solve such a punishing problem? And I'd say to the government of Catalonia, "Don't worry or wait for the new law; they have instruments to do it. Why isn't there a single public housing register in Catalonia? Why don't we practice instruments that we've been asking them to facilitate a quick solution to these problems, much further beyond the rule of law? As Hannah Arendt, the great philosopher, would say, we do not take the tables of Moses with a Jewish Christian undertaking from "here we do not move; there are many fields of public policies to practice, to promote the rights. In this sense, still, the inclusion of what is a punishing problem, despite the fact that today we have positive, slightly positive figures to respect: what means the right to work, the need to deal with the very high rate of unemployment, both in the case of young people who migrate as in the case of people of a middle age of forty-five years on the way, where we have also been working and have various reports from the complaints and social contacts that the syndicate has set up to combat a subject that we should be ashamed of, that we continue to preside over certain labour relations, that is discrimination: much to be contracted, but young to go to a pension system. And we find ourselves with fringes of the "well, that say the sociologists, of which it seems that man cannot come out, that would require much-decided public policies. I could extend this aside from social rights by talking to them about a very important collection, which is childhood. And I should say: I don't do it because there's a report submitted to the chamber. But, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, the report was presented on 2nd December and has not yet been discussed in the Parliament of Catalonia. The 2015 Children's Rights Report is pending from the 2nd of December to be discussed in this chamber. And I looked at the index and see and look back at what happened in many fields of childhood in the last few days. And see what is proposed from reflecting the complaints we receive and the solutions we propose. We have now date for May 17th in the Commission for Children. Six months later from the presentation in the chamber! I call attention to the need to give a high priority as an institution at the time to address things that affect elementary rights, in this case a collection such as childhood, such as the one we are laying on foster children, a plan of work for the disintegration of children under three years of age; or how to increase the number of foster families; or what are the residential centres for children; or what we already have in the 2015 report – now that they see headlines on children in the queue – about how to accompany children who come from this guardianship ensuring their autonomy and their insertion in life, as they have been designed individually in the transition to adult life, as they can support the DG to the top. We have exclusive competence over this. We don't listen to each other. The Government of Catalonia has exclusive competence over this matter; we don't have to wait any longer. And, in this sense, I say again, I hope that on May 17th we can get into the background of all those policies that the X-ray of 2015 tells us where to put the accent. In a_second apart..., and I could continue to talk about very elementary, social, affected rights; disarrayed, for the devastating effect of the crisis, many remain, of these, still. In a_second apart, we could talk about equal opportunities and the past of this principle in all camps, starting with education. Patim, because I understand, for example – and from here on in complaints – that a student who has obtained excellent baccalaureate grades can access free tuition at the university and cannot do so one who sees the higher professional education with excellent grades. I already know that this is about the Spanish government and that they have not included it in the State's premise, but syndicate, and much more than syndicate, the first bench of this chamber and all that behind it, they would have to fight to end a situation like this. And back to the point of legality: it's legal, of course, it's to the laws that it is; it's radically unfair, radically unequal, it's a direct right-wing affectation and it's not equal opportunities. And I would ask that it is conjured without you to overcome things so concrete and precise that they are in our abyss to be planted. As is also the equality of opportunities in access to the right to salvation; as is when we still have higher terms than guaranteed or fixed as reference in all that are waiting lists in the saving apartment, and that we are working with the advice..., and I must say that we start to work what we call the "expressed waiting lists to find as quickly as possible the analysis and, determined that there is a real compromise – and we see that it happens afterwards – so that we can go unnoticed. In this apartment, and also by equal opportunity, the syndic, with the correspondent accompanying the entities that most understand it, made a report in 2015, categorical, in favor of the VISC project; in favor of advancing the investigation in Catalonia from the VISC project, guaranteeing privacy, guaranteeing its public profitability, but that it would be a very important mature step to advance the salvation to our home. That is to say, it is equal opportunities, but it goes on horseback from the third side of which it wanted to outsource, all that affects good administration and transparency. It is a guise that we must begin to complete with this fact; therefore, I could only refer to transparency, as I said to the principle, with the measures that we are about to be able to inform them, from 1 July, of what we may have realized about what the law that binds the Generalitat from the past year and in the locals fully from the guany says. But we're still complaining – and we're going back to the complaint I'm saying "how the trout changes" – that the public authorities don't have access to the information. It can't be! And it can't be, for example, that in a joint, when some governments, we have complaints about the opposition that doesn't have access to the information, and, when they run backwards, the complaints come back, but from the other gang. We have no democratic culture – even before the Law of Access and Transparency – because one who has a democratic responsibility must be able to work and express his opinion from all the access to information. In this distance, and far from transparency, we must reiterate, in the year 2015, that we are not developing with enough force the democratic memory, we are not..., nor in the presence of symbols of Francoism, radically referred to in the Law of Historical Memory – the article referred to here is unappealable, you make the circumloquists you call, it is unappealable what is said about the removal of vestiges and symbolism of the Francoist regime –..., as it is also still arriving at the syndicate who says to us: "I don't know where my parent was missed. I don't know where he's buried. I have no history of this fact. We should be ashamed that this is still happening. And I'm not, despite the fact that I want to outsource it, that Catalonia is where the more it has gone to get rid of the Spanish State. What I want to stay in this speech, as the rapporteur for the United Nations says: that Spain is of the very few..., if not the only democracy, that has not yet made the accounts with its historical memory. In this same distance there would be other questions affecting good administration, which came to us in 2015, such as tax matters; which means the vulnerability to tax and the consequence of a perilous economic crisis situation in certain taxes; the non-equipment of single-parent families to tax-related appointments, and stable pairs; the fact of so many requests for tax fractionation that only meet those administrations which are particularly sensitive to the issue, or which also affects, as proof of the need to improve good administration services, the vagueness of complaints and actions about the need for absolute respect for the protection of the natural environment. There are various areas, where we have to act respectfully, and the most scandalous, obviously, and turn around to say why it's 2015 and why the judiciary is acting very correctly, the Castor platform, and what is the scum we'll see on the gas bills of all consumers when we're going to pay the 4,000 and millions of euros for that decree that's a tempt to everyone's rights. And, thirdly, he wanted to make a cry of freedom and democratic quality. We are the four hundred anniversary of Cervantes' death. Remember that phrase from Cervantes to the island of Barataria, when he said: "Friend Sancho, freedom is the most precious good that a human being can have – and he adds, more – "and with independence, which is a symbol of identity. Remember that we have, again, a year of electoral processes, and I tell you a little bit after we know that there is a new electoral call in the coming weeks. We acted in 2015, when we rejected complaints, to defend the right to vote. We do not yet fully guarantee the right to vote. There are thousands of people who have not been able to exercise the right to vote. Let us continue with mechanisms, especially for the outsider, that de facto prevent – not de facto, de facto – the exercise of the right to vote, of such an elementary right in democracy. And we had to send them out, and we had to go and send them back to whoever they were. We have asked..., and more when we live in a company that has a private company – and it seems that you advertise, now – that you are advising many democratic alternate voting mechanisms to solve these defects, that we patò, that at home we patamo that we could have solved very much in our home. As we have also recommended that all forecasts be completed because you can exercise the right to vote for people with disabilities or that you have accessibility problems to exercise it. How we have to fight, once again, with little success, that we end up with this system that is the hardest of democracies: electoral blocs; a clear rush to professional work and free democracy and pluralism on the part of people working in communication media. Or, as we had to get out in the electoral campaign for this Parliament, of what the blatant disproportion of information meant in certain television channels, especially deprived of the Spanish environment, discriminating against electoral lists. So, let's strictly talk about blocks and go to the percentage, and in no way change here in any way, despite the fact that there is a reformed LOREG of 2011 that obliges everyone, when there are disproportionates of 1 to 3 or 1 to 5 in the information that is donated in the spaces that were to be served because the population is formed its criteria to go to vote. In this apartment, the year 2015 we wanted to warn that there were fears that they would affect us and that they would affect us, as was the refugee crisis – March 2015. Since the syndic we wanted to make a note of attention on what happened to the Mediterranean. It is no longer in the Mediterranean; it is also in the Mediterranean and it is in the whole centre of Europe. And in this sense we have been working with other European defence defenders last week, we are meeting in Barcelona all of Europe's ombudsmen, all of Europe's syndicates or defenders, to talk about two major concerns, more than the social crisis, as is the possible extension of freedom with security arguments and as is the issue of the refugee crisis and the European shame of how they are responding, when it is incomplete and all that the European Commission can really approve with the relevant quotas and with the mechanisms to achieve it, and when we are indirectly fomenting – and I say in the first person of plural –, as a reaction, that it can create something as irrational as the xenophobia or hatred of the community that is being visited by the community. And that in Catalonia, which is an absolute community of integration, and it's been like the Hispanic Brand all of its life, and as a step-by-step, it should be on the front line, like some of our institutions are doing. Remember that we could also say that we celebrate Ramon Llull's centenary, and you could say a lot about respect for what that means; and they tell me more from outside than from here, that maybe they appreciate it more than from here, when there is a set of thoughts that could be applied in this situation of diversity. It is worth saying in this sense that in this aside I want to introduce a little reflection, briefly, on another report that is not on the agenda of the day but that from the Bureau we will inform that we are located in this, as we have presented on the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, when in the year 2015 we have made forty-five visits to centres, of all kinds, at any time, with all experts, with the corresponding protocols, in order to look for ways to prevent situations that can be objectively given where they can give abuse or torture. I only passed it, because last year I told them to withdraw from the ruling of the Constitutional Court that it invalidated that what you had legislated, that the syndic was Catalan authority on behalf of the United Nations, said in the sentence: "Continue, not on behalf of the United Nations, because this Parliament does not have the capacity – said the Constitutional – "to say it on behalf of the United Nations, but continue to do so, the control, all that they do, and said to continue: "Neither the functions of the national mechanism – referring to what exists at the state level – " pose an obstacle for the Ombudsman to seek, in his case, the cooperation of the parliamentary commissioner, concretely by means of agreements. And we left it here. So, what he's talking about is he addressed the Ombudsman by sending him a proposal for an agreement-collaboration, among other things, to avoid what it means, as they say the feeling and the common sense, duplication of effort, duplication of staff, duplication of costs or more than duplication, when what we can go to guarantee and inspect by bus or little, as we are doing in all the centres of Catalonia, is done from Madrid. And the answer we got is the next. As the answer is after my presence in this plenary, I read it. Weeks after I informed him of this question, he said: "We have stated on some occasion that the signing of agreements is not foreseen and that the framework of competence is considered appropriate and well defined, both legislatively and jurisprudentially. Again, this is legality, we already know, it's not politics, it's not the right, it's not reality because the contributor feels satisfied with a good result, because there is trust between institutions and why it should happen. It's not, this one, the path. And I ask the President of the Generality and I ask any ruler of Catalonia that when he is a dialogue – and so much good is a dialogue often – with the authorities of the State, in all the lists that are taken into account, it is taken into account that at these times we have a hole in our democracy, which is the Catalan authority of the prevention of torture. And I want to read them a list up to the tiredness of the amount of democracies that follow what the United Nations says, which speaks of "decentralized mechanisms, in plural..., there are: from Argentina to the United Kingdom, from Holland to Canada; a long list. Are they so unique that they can't practice it? We're doing it, and we're sending it to the United Nations, and they're complaining about it, and they came to this symposium we did in Barcelona. Why can't we raise him to law? We'll keep walking. No one will prevent us, in this defense of rights, from walking beyond legality. But I want to make it clear that a contribution would also be needed in order to be able to push it to where the accents of how to improve Catalonia's self-government are to be put. In this report, we said – and I end this apartment – that the United Nations protocol named "Istanbul protocol" for which it is the treatment of detainees is a stranger to Catalonia, as it is to Spain. We still find some who say to us: "Why does the medical examiner have to see and analyze a detainee who says that he may have been mistreated by the presence of the officer, the member of the police force, who may have mistreated him? Why can't I examine it together with this cop or will it work? For a reason... it would no longer heat up or Istanbul protocol: for a reason of common sense. So, the Istanbul protocol is a set of experienced, contrasting predictions that work for the more advanced democracies and that would require the serious training of all the staff who are to be held in custody, all the staff who are doing a great job and who should be constantly crying, be police personnel, be prison personnel, but we should train and train them to know and maintain and also guarantee the rights of all people who are deprived of freedom, as the mechanism says in his report. A final apartment. I would like to point out in this sense that, if we have exceeded the number of complaints of other years, we are willing to cover up, as I said before, the time in their resolution. I have to say solemnly that we have not appreciated a single case of obstruction of administration on the performance of the syndicate, which we could not say a few years ago; we should all congratulate each other, because this is an important step forward. I've also assigned the percentage of resolutions accepted. We would ask for more due diligence with the e-government, we would ask that we have come to the point where we can go with the quickest of the most normal relationships, and all of our children when we use the electronic networks for any other matter, which we can also find in the administration; that we can get a much more direct channel of communication, such as the names 'contact people', and use the term with which you know from the world; that there is no advice or advice that is considered less or less direct, so that we can connect every step directly with the person responsible..., possibly responsible for the problem that has been posed to us by a Catalan person, at the same time, to the extent that he does not inform, but rather inform, at the same time, that he or she or she or he or she or he or she or she or he or she or she or he or she or she or he or she or she or he or she or she or she or he or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or he or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or he or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she And in this sense, therefore, I would ask for the necessary cooperation, as we try to practice with the network that we have so much in the territory, with other defenders, with international organizations. And let me just say that in this sense I can do a lot of people working at the Greuges Syndic, the team I have, without which I could not address you, and they are the real ones responsible for the pocket, the good pocket that we are doing. And I would end up, knowing that we are now going to the cots that we will once again examine, that we will re-present ourselves before the citizenry because you exercise your right to vote, that they do not lose sight of the solid values, the most powerful, that they are columns of democracy; that in this report, if they'read calmly, they see how they have been affected or degraded; that the effect of thinking and philosophy is substantial. Two thousand years ago, Titus Lucretius Carus said, "I have worked, in his book Of Nature, the first book that publishes the Bernat Metge, the first volume that publishes the Bernat Metge, the great collection that we have in Catalonia that is called the Bernat Metge. In his second book, to the Praise of Philosophy, he says: "It is sweeter than to possess well the strong bastides for science, for the science of knowledge: places to be able to hound the other men, to see them break up and seek erring ways of life, to fight with eloquence, to fight with nobility, and night and day, for a work on humanity, desirous of rising to the highest height, to absolve power. They're paying attention, a little, to Lucreci. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.119.0	Thank you, syndic. [[Greetings.]] To fix his position, Ms. Carmen de Rivera, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.120.0	Thank you, President. First, to greet the whole team of the syndic that accompanies us today and to thank the presentation that has been made of this report of the syndic of Greuges of 2015. The syndic's reports, together... – well, I mean, moreover, with the reports partially... –, the syndic's reports are always accurate x-rays of problems affecting the citizens of Catalonia in their relationship with the Administration and on many occasions with private companies, especially those supply companies. Secondly, I would like to express the satisfaction of this group, but at the same time concern at the increase in complaints this year: ten thousand complaints are many complaints; but they also indicate a greater degree of awareness of the institution by citizens, but at the same time we see that there are many more citizens who report a violation of rights. We would also like to congratulate you on the speed and effectiveness shown by the syndic, which is no more or less that the administrations address the problems that the syndic transfers to them and accept the recommendations that are made for a better relationship with the citizens. In this report there are also recommendations addressed to Parliament; recommendations that, I believe, all groups can make our own – and of course our own – as it is to make progress in all expressions of democracy, pluralism and freedom, and to place the principle of equal opportunities in all public policies, especially social policies. One third of the complaints, the syndic says, are linked to the social sphere, in problems with the management of benefits, by an excessive bureaucracy that makes access to services difficult for the citizen, and also by the lack of transparency, which makes the citizen unable to know the status of the requests he has processed, and by the chronic deficiency in the coverage of situations, of social needs that, because of the persistence of time, make it considerably worse. With regard to the protection of social rights, the syndic's report highlights the large number of complaints motivated by delays in the payment of amounts relating to recognized benefits that have not been fully met, in particular in care benefits for dependents and in benefits relating to the minimum income for inclusion. And it coincides with the diagnosis made by the State Observatory for the Unit, which estimates that over 125,000 people have died in the last four years throughout Spain, awaiting these benefits. In Catalonia, in 2015 there were 1,697 people who died unvalued and 1,649 people who did so with degree and level of disability in force, but who still did not have the PIA. These data are worse than we had in 2014 and, of course, it is an increase in the number of people who died hoping to finally collect their aid to the dependency. In the section on the minimum income for inclusion, the trustee denounces the absence of good administrative practice on the part of the Administration. First, unreasoned decisions; omission of the pre-hearing procedure in the case of the assessment of the applicant's income, which affect the limit of the benefit; or failure to communicate defects in the documentation provided by the person concerned, which lead to the file, without having been aware of these defects in order to be able to remedy them. In short, ladies and gentlemen, deficiencies in the communication and transparency of the Administration to those who apply for the minimum income for inclusion. And, just as there are communication and transparency deficits, there are also management deficits, as demonstrated by the underutilization of the fund to alleviate energy poverty. Another disturbing fact: waiting lists in residences for older persons and persons with disabilities. The main problem is on the waiting lists. There is a lack of publicity on these waiting lists, and more transparency and guidelines are needed that are objective and public to know what are the criteria for accessing these places and how many people are ahead. On the right to work, we agree on the assessment and warning made by the syndic on those over the age of forty-five and the high risk that these people will fall into social exclusion. In this sense, initiatives have been presented from the Citizens' Group..., there have been parliamentary initiatives in this regard, so that these discriminations do not exist or try to avoid them. In the chapter on health care, we consider the recommendation made on waiting lists to schedule the intervention, the diagnostic test or the medical visit without further delay and to inform the person concerned of the date fixed for the intervention. In this regard, proposals from this parliamentary group were adopted at the last Social Emergency Plenary. We shall see, as the President has also indicated at this sitting on 20 May, how we will follow up on these agreements. It seems to us fundamental, because of the large number of people affected, to the ex officio action carried out in relation to the expired prostheses of meniscus, label and hip implanted to many citizens. With regard to assisted reproduction techniques, to highlight also another ex officio action, concerning delays and discrimination in the access of unmarried and lesbian women to assisted reproduction techniques in public medicine, as well as suggestions made by the trustee in this regard. In this regard, Citizens have tabled a motion for a resolution, pending discussion and adoption in the Health Commission, to ensure compliance with the equal rights established in the Constitution and in the Statute of Autonomy on non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. And, analyzing the report in more detail, we find it very correct, syndic – and we told it when it appeared in the Commission of the Syndic of Greuges –, the recommendation addressed to the Department of Salvation on the ICAM, the Institut Català d'Avaluació Médica, reminding it of the commitment, with the citizens, of quality, impartiality and objectivity of the health system, along with a considered and respectful treatment to the people who see themselves in the obligation to come to this body to be recognized as a disability. With regard to children, it is clear that we need more investment in children's policies. We are below, in Catalonia, the total of Spain, which is at 1.4_percent of GDP investment, while in Catalonia we are at 0.9_percent of GDP. In this regard, Citizens have put forward parliamentary initiatives, and resolutions have been adopted in the relevant committee to increase investment in children's and adolescents' policies, increase them and equalise them with the European average. That is, moving from the current 0.9_per_cent to the 2.2_per_cent of investment that is made in Europe. We have also promoted a motion in the Committee on Children to make the regulation of Act No. 14/2010, once and for all, and it has been adopted unanimously by all groups. We have promoted the updating of the Social Services Portfolio, as the current ones are from 2010, 2011. Finally, in this same parliamentary session, we will be conducting an interpellation focused on children and young people protected by the Administration, because it is truly worrying about the excessive use of centres in the case of children protected when, according to the law, minors must be with foster families as soon as possible. We fully agree with the syndic on the need for a follow-up of the reception process from the social welfare and family councillor. And we consider it essential that they have a reference to which minors can address themselves. And we are also concerned by DGAIA; there are many – perhaps too many – complaints, as the trustee indicates in his report. The DGAIA does not seem to act with due diligence in the supervision of the centres. Nor is there a sufficient plan of action for children who reach the age of eighteen and have to be integrated, reintegrated into society. With regard to the application to the Constitutional Court of Law 24/2015 of 29 July of urgent measures to deal with the emergency in the field of housing and energy poverty, to which you referred, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group yesterday registered a proposal for a law which we call the "law on urgent measures to protect the most disadvantaged in relation to access to basic supplies because we share the need to deal with the situation of people in energy poverty. This law that we present is based on the directives of the European Parliament, on its recommendations to the states and makes it possible to alleviate the situation of energy poverty, avoiding competitive discussions. With regard to the Istanbul Protocol, to which he also referred..., a motion for a resolution has been tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group for the dissemination, through a training programme, of the Istanbul Protocol among all persons in the service of the Administration of Justice who have to know and apply it in their work, as are also forensic doctors. And finally, syndic, a contentious that we have this group and the syndic of Greuges, which are the families and children who have requested to receive part of the classes in Spanish. The syndic, who starts so rightly many cases ex officio, always ahead of the administration's response to serious and current problems, presents an absolute – deliberate, in our opinion – and discriminatory forgetfulness of all those children who want to receive a teaching also in Spanish, who want to receive part of their classes also in Spanish. And we find it impossible for the syndic, in the face of a series of unfulfilled sentences by the councillor d'Ensenyament, regarding the right of these children also to receive 25_per_cent of the classes in Spanish, not to answer and not to open an investigation on their own initiative and not to attempt to intervene before the Generalitat in order to guarantee the right of these children to study also in their mother tongue. And these children and their families have suffered particularly severe harassment, as we had the opportunity to tell you, in the case of the populations of Mataró and Balaguer. It is clear, however, that families who get the courts to recognize that their children receive a non-linguistic subject in Spanish receive all kinds of pressure from the Administration and the school to renounce this right or change school children. If they do not give up, they usually produce harassment situations that will stop talking to families and make the children empty, and can reach extreme situations of public harassment and mockery, as has happened in Mataró and Balaguer. We don't recognize this syndic, we don't recognize him, Mr Ribó. We do not see that from the syndic, in this case, nothing is done to guarantee the right of all people to good administration, independently and objectively. That is why, Mr President, we urge you one more year, from this atrium, to take an interest in these children and families, and to ensure the protection and moral integrity of these children as well. My time is running out and... I hope, syndic, that this time in the replica you can tell us something about it. We already know that you are fully convinced of the goodness of the system of linguistic immersion, but we believe that there are many children, although they have not manifested themselves in the courts, who also want to access to study at least one non-language subject in their mother tongue, which is Spanish. Let's hope... the syndic makes them look good. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The words "Mrs. Marta Moreta", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.122.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, MPs, MPs, syndicates and the work team that accompanies him, we would like to begin by thanking the syndic for its extensive explanation of the 2015 report, which, on the other hand, we had occasion to talk to and listen to him a few weeks ago to the Commission of the Syndicate of Greuges. To us the report of the syndic gives us a visit full of different areas of government. It's an open microphone to the citizenry and alerts us to continue working. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we insist on the need to place at the centre of the political agenda of the institutions the promotion and defence of the social rights of citizens and citizens in order to have a more inclusive society. The union report is a good document to note..., and from its conclusions make the control task and proposals for improvement in the definitions of government performance. The report, in our view, makes it clear that it is necessary to combat the inequalities that are being generated and the need to create conditions for a more equal growth from an Administration to the service of the citizenry, effective and respectful with its rights, as you have already commented. I will divide my intervention into three large blocks: the first, related to general data; the second, with specific data; and a third, to finish, where I will make some reflections and some questions. From the first block, from the general data, reading the report, it was assumed that the year 2015 was going to increase the complaints to the syndic respects to 2014 almost a 10_per_cent– concretely, a 9.9 –, given significant enough to take it into account. This shows us that the union is a fully consolidated and fully justified institution. In fact, looking at the data from the last two years, we see that the name of complaints has increased by a hundred_per_cent, and that's what we have to think about. We could say that the people know the syndic in depth, or that they are better informed, or that the citizens may complain without those situations of inequality and lack of transparency or social injustice. But we also need to reflect: the rebuffed complaints to the syndic were basically focused on public administrations, and these are what we need to age for. But I also want to say, and I want to focus on it, that there must be pressure on the companies that run electrical or telephone services, or other companies. All these complaints show that something is not happening, and therefore this report by the syndic must serve us to visualize those areas or situations that require actions that mean a better deal for the citizenry, since it is the public administrations we have to take care of to improve policies and public service. In your report, you say that social policy complaints represent more than 30_per_cent. If it is true that this 30_per_cent, that you are talking about the report, clearly pertains to social policies, it is also true that a good part of the questions addressed in the consumer compartment could also be included in the social policy area. In this sense, it is obvious to us that the questions relating to basic sub-administrations, for example, have a clearly social character, and this is explained in your report. When it is said – and I quote it textually – "complaints that they are particularly relevant to the basic and essential condition of this service for the daily life of these people, they are putting the focus and alert on this issue, that of the basic sub-administrations. It's an up-to-date and very sensitive issue where the government hasn't been diligent enough. Good show of this is the fact that the past year, of the 5_million– of the 5_million– encoded to allocate them to the poor energy, are going to spend only one. Every day there are sizes of light and water, and still have a law that doesn't allow it. The crisis we are experiencing is completely social, you tell us your report and you tell us your data. We find several concrete examples of basic sub-administration issues, and it is a good thing that the citizenry can express its complaint to the syndic, but it would not have to arrive at this way of administration if, in this case, the Government of the Generality acted proactively on these issues. An inoperative government leaves the people helpless, and it is this government that has not demonstrated its effectiveness in fighting the poor. We urge the Government of Catalonia to continue working with the lines of help to the families they have and suffer from poor energy. It can't be that I'm listening to the joints. He didn't stop paying a single bill because the joints were doing it, because there are no such basic sub-administrations. Yesterday it was observed at the emergency housing summit that, while there has been a great step, it is not enough, and that it can apply the laws in force and fully operational. This is not our model, it is the government that has to face up to and not let the more proper administrations, the assemblies, take on their mistakes. In view of the social situation there are, in view of the demands of various collections and, also, appreciating the data that presents us – the data of the syndic of this 2015 report – we have to ask the government to put the needle on the line and presumably give the parties that correspond and face the needs that, especially in energy poverty, exist. So good that in the syndic's own report the themes of poor energy and, in general, the relation with social policies has diminished. I'll continue with the second block of specific data. From the analysis of the concrete data that explain the different areas of your report, we deduce omissions in various quarters. Lacks in the rights of the LGTBI collection respect their guarantee of security, from the equality before assisted reproduction techniques; lacks also in economic and care rights, in the minimum income to dependence; with the difficulties in the payments of services and also with the problem of accessing a care centre for people with limited resources. Currently, in Catalonia, to access a residential square there are two options. One, the first, get a public square and wait for this list, which already has more than a thousand people waiting; or pay and go to the private sector. It is essential to resolve immediately the functioning of these waiting lists in all residential resources; to know how and what allocation each of the users has and to simplify the waiting lists that exist at these times to access the center or residence. Not to mention the difficult problems of care centres with people with intellectual disabilities. We also find shortcomings in the area of housing, in that it refers to the relocation of affected families and to the evidence of the need to increase the housing stock designated as a social loguer. And lacks in teaching. As you pointed out – and I'm glad you pointed it out, because a servant in the Board of Trustees noticed this – it discriminates against students of professional training cycles in front of the baccalaureate, who, having academic excellence, cannot have the first degree of free university. This is a great discrimination for these students. Some of these shortcomings are linked to the economic part, more or less quantitative, but, in short, it is a political priority of those who at this time are ruling, a political will that directly affects Catalans and Catalans. To the third block – and to finish – I will ask you a very concrete question, and it will allow me, as the equality spokesman of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, to make a special point of the Law 17/2015, of July 21, effective equality of women and men, which asks the Government to propose a collaboration agreement with the judicial authority, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and the Synod of Greuges in terms of the six-month period. Well, now it's been nine months since this law came into force and, in the syndic's appearance to the committee where he filed the report we're dealing with today, the government still hadn't proposed this arrangement. We don't know if today's date has happened, but in any case, we're late. Equality is not a minor issue, and we need to devote the attention we correspond to it. I'll end up with some thoughts. Of the complaints that came to the Synod of Greuges during 2015, as we have already said, around a 40_per_cent, we could say, are those related to social policies that require much more attention from the Government of Catalonia. Today, which is resolving social emergencies are the government's incomparencies. Someone may think that the syndic's report is a setback of political-social punctuality and the functioning of public administrations, but the delays in the payments of the minimum income benefit, the non-payment of the universal economic benefit per child or the breakdowns that some prisons have in the basic services such as the sanitary lots, all these cases, or that follow concrete examples, are evidence of the shortcomings in social policies suffered by Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, further than the citizenry can express these shortcomings through the complaints that are due to the heavy trade union, we demand determined action by the government and make a call to take account of the syndic's report. I am only left, once more, to thank the syndic for his appearance here today in Parliament, to explain this report that very thoroughly radiographs the state of administration and the problems that are coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] Next is the words of Mr. Albano Dante Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.124.0	Thank you, President. The Enchanting Report of the Greuges Syndic has three hundred pages, and before these three hundred pages I believe that, like Members of Parliament – because it is a report that is presented to Parliament – as Members of Parliament, we must give some answer. There are two options. One, which is always – let me be 'hodden', because I've been looking at what appearances are like in other years – is to congratulate the syndicate, to show us a lot of concern about what explains the report and, like a lot, to promise that all folds will work to fix things, obviously, more would be needed, to say it. But I might want to do one more step, or, as a matter of fact, I want to do it, because the second is to interpret this report as a thermometer. Like a thermometer that tells us that there is a much deeper problem than the one in these three-hundred plans, a thermometer, in the first place, of the fraction of this chamber at the time of giving an answer to what is going on on the street, and a thermometer of succeeding governments and their failures at the time of solving what is going on on the street. And even more: a frac, if we don't repose it, of society. We're sorting the second option. Obviously, we congratulate the syndic, we congratulate his team and we thank him for his work, but now I look at the members of this chamber, the deputies, the members of the government there, and I ask you if we are willing to accept that this explanation of these three-hundred plans is acceptable. You can go into the daily routine of reading reports with these or you can decide that we can't get used to reading things like these. We don't want to get used to it. And with which we do not want to get used to some concrete examples, of people. On Plan 79 the report tells us the story of a person who suffers from fibromyalgia and who one day goes to the Hospital Clínic, which is the hospital where he regularly gets it, but that day he was told that they will no longer get it, and that from that moment on he has to attend to the specialized unit that there is to the Mutual of Terrassa. So, the person goes to Terrassa's Mutual, and Terrassa's Mutual is told to ignore the existence of the specialized unit. When I say that we have to treat this report as a thermometer, what I want to say is that this problem of this person is not an isolated fact, and this problem of this person poses a much deeper problem on the table than we have in Parliament, the people we work here every day, because, of course, this case reminds us that the year 2008 was eight years ago, this Parliament approved a resolution that was pushed, moreover, thanks to popular mobilization and a popular legislative initiative, where this Parliament is engaged with people who support central awareness. But, despite this compromise, which was acquired, moreover, with solemnity and unanimity, everyone saw it clear, everyone voted in favour, but the example that the syndic brings to us today tells us that we have not been up. I know people, with names and surnames, who suffer from this lack of continued attention, this difficulty in accessing a special treatment, and I know that many of you here also know people, because these people, since 2008, have not ceased to claim that this Parliament and the governments that have passed since 2008 are complicated with what this Parliament said. So I know them and you all know them, and so does the syndic. Of course, while Salut's office, which is the one to whom it belongs, so I don't put in the way of the experience of that eight-year-old resolution, the most likely is that the year the syndic sees it comes back here and tells us the same thing again. And it's not the only problem that's repeated. I've set this example, but I can set another one, can't I? On plane 89 the syndic explains to us the case of a person who was denied the collection of the minimum income of insertion for alleged lack of documentation. But it turns out that the person did have this documentation, but no one asked for it. This person made the complaint to the syndic, filed various appeals and, finally, after six months of struggle, he was recognized for the charge and his right to charge. Clearly, six months of struggle to access a benefit that is a right and that has just as objective to face an emergency situation. And, of course, in an emergency situation, waiting for six months may be complicated: six months of waiting may mean the difference between sleeping under a floor or staying on the street, or they may mean the difference between buying a medicine or not buying it, lighting up the heating and not turning it on, or buying a few Sabbaths from a child because he's going to school with a few decent Sabbaths or not going to school with a few decent Sabbaths. And the question that I ask myself and that we should all do, and that we are all certainly doing, is how many people, right now, out of this Parliament, are falling into exclusion for administrative reasons? Many, I don't know how many, but I'm sure there are many if we're two. But, besides – and I said the syndic's report – things like this happen, and I say it textually: "because the Administration improperly omits the hearing process to be able to listen to the person who is in this situation. I imagine that this will not require great laws to be done, except that these things happen with the concrete objective of obstructing the exercise of rights. I want to think it's not the case. And of course, that must be said, too, in this Parliament, because in this Parliament there has been a counselor – I will also allow myself to quote Cervantes – whose name I do not want to remember, who tried to criminalize people who collected the minimum income of insertion while important charges of his party evade millions of euros of taxes. And that happened in this Parliament. On page 85 we see that at ICAM, the Catalan Institute of Medical Evaluations, there are hard things that should not happen, but we see it on the plane 85, but you also see anyone who talks to the people who come through the door of ICAM. I invite you to go to the door of the ICAM to see the faces of the people when they come out of there and listen to them, because it is not just the case that the syndic explains to us, unfortunately there are many, and we know them and know the names and surnames of some, of others we don't know anything about, not up to this Parliament. On plane 82 the syndic explains to us the case of a person who had scheduled an ultrasound on November 16th and one day later no one had told him anything. This person is addressing the syndic and the problem is solved. What's the matter? A bug in the computer? Is there a paper missing? No, no, because it's not an isolated case, and everyone who's here knows it. I'm sure many when we go to errands, when we do acts, when we go to a family _dinar we listen– listen– the people who explain things to us, who explain to us what they cheat more than a year to visit us, this happens– this happens. I went to Tortosa, the other day, and there was a gentleman who is said Gustavo, who has been waiting more than a year for a visit for a specialist doctor. We're going out here and we're going to say who the systems are, how we need to improve them, but... we're going back to the street and we're going to listen. Clearly, Gustavo is seventy-five years old, and he's not the only one – and he's not the only one. I know that the issue of waiting lists concerns all of us and that no group here will say that they do not care. Now, I think one of the things this Parliament has is to put it in context so that these things happen. The counselor does it, the president does it, the vice president does it too, they set contexts. I also want to put contexts: why do these things happen or, at least, why do these things do so much harm? Because, yesterday, a media outlet explained to us that it is a recurring and extensive practice in the Catalan health system to hire friends lawyers, skipping the laws for millions of euros. This is perfectly documented. And, of course, one question is: this person who waits for a year to find him or this nurse who sees that he can't do his job as he should, when the working day is over and finds news like that, which is one of many, but which gives context – and this I think is also what we have to do – how does it feel when you see all this and sometimes you see that the friends of the parties that have lawyers out of the way take millions by jumping the law? It's got to be very hard. Actually, it's very hard, and I imagine that for most of us here, of which we are here, it's also hard, but that's what we have to say. And we have to say that because the syndic's job is to report, that's a parliament, that's going to talk, so, we have to say. And then we have to find some solution, which is also our job. Finally... three hundred plans that are a setback of cases that, thanks to the syndic's intervention, have found a channel of resolution, and that is why we must be grateful and proud to have this institution; but now we have to do our job, because after concrete cases there are structural problems, there is a clear inability of this Parliament to respond to a reality that is surpassing all of us, that is surpassing governments, that are surpassing all of us, and that is what we should be concerned about. Because, if we finally accept that neither Parliament nor governments have the capacity, they are useful to solve everything that explains this report to us, so we have a problem like society and then we will have to ask ourselves seriously what we are doing here or the people outside will ask us: what are you doing here? There are many established powers that are very comfortable with this situation; powers that work, precisely, because parliaments do not follow another thing than decorative figures where it is spoken and is nothing more than: the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court wants this Parliament to be a decorative figure; but also the benches that disown and enrich themselves with the debt, these too are very happy with this Parliament being a decorative figure; multinationals, owners of basic-service subcontractors, are also very happy with the inability that many times we have demonstrated since this Parliament – these multinationals who, by the way, negotiate scandals in the city – and this Parliament, a deal with this Parliament, that is to be remembered in this Parliament. That too should be said. Finally, the syndic has already done his job, the citizenry self-organizes and does not expect, and it also works to make its rights better. So, now, we should do our job. And I end up, too, quoting Llull, saying that "who serves a bad Lord gets used to evil and loses time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.126.0	Thank you, President. Syndicate of hard work, vice president, councillors, deputies and deputies..., one more year the syndicate appears in Parliament, and this repeated presence, this cyclical fact proves that the union has already been established; that institutions, when it is converted into rites, one thing is that already, there, it is an institution. Finally, the syndic is an institution, because, as I was joking a little bit: « Pass the deputies, pass the parliaments, pass the presidents, but the Roman syndic. The union, in any case, is a good institution, and it is a good job to do and have a mission in our social and political life. I would say that you have a particularly key mission in these times of crisis. And you said, Mr. Syndic, that you have a mission related to what is the core of democracy, the core of a liberal, social and constitutional democracy. And it has a function, you, that you have to see with the counterweight of power, with the equality before the law, with the guarantee and exercise of the rights of citizens, with the principle of control and criticism of public management. Therefore, it seems to me that this is a very important function. And I honestly say this, that is to say, because liberal democracy is not just setting up ballot boxes, as Catalonia is said here, Hungary has just set up ballot boxes to expel refugees. Democracy is more: it is an ecosystem of laws, institutions, deliberation, supervision, criticism. And here, I insist, the syndic plays an important role as an intermediary, as a supervisor, as a critical conscience, as a driver of reforms. And if a value which is the quality of a democracy, perhaps one thing we can ask ourselves or..., a place to see the quality of a democracy is the relationship between the syndic or the defender of the people, as I say, with power: their independence, their freedom of criticism, their relationship with power, the possibility of solving hardships, etc. I would say that both Spain and Catalonia can improve, but we are not ill. For all I've said seems important, the report... seems important to me the presence of the syndic. A report that I have to thank, and I always do, your careful editing. You talked about the, uh, it looks like it's edited by the Bernat Metge Foundation, right? It's very well-edited, and that makes it very easy to read and really appreciate it. And it's an X-ray of society's problems, and it's useful, to me, for the government's task and for the opposition task, because it puts light on many problems, on concrete issues that can then be raised to the category, on structural dysfunctions of the system. And I want it, in the first place... – then I will express important discrepancies, which we have with its focus – but I want to thank you and your team, in the first place, the work done, because I think it is to be said that you, these last few years have worked and done good work. We have to say hello, and you have highlighted, first of all, the increase in activity: consultations, complaints, office activities have increased... And that's a lot of good news, because it means, first of all, that people know the syndic more. I don't think there are any more problems, I think it's that people know that there is, but above all, it's that people know the union better, that they can go to it and that they can solve problems. And I think that all efforts should go – and you talk to the report – to multiply the presence and knowledge of the syndicate among the citizens, because in the background, two thousand complaints, someone said, there are many, yes, but they are only a 0.15_per_cent of the Catalan population; there are many, but much more people can know and benefit from the functions of the union. Tell us, you, that 98 per cent of your requests and your complaints and recommendations are accepted. And here's the question I'm asking you, and it seems to me that you've answered it a little bit, it's that you accept it, what do you mean? Let them say to the syndic: "Very well, are we in agreement with your perspective and you are right, or is the syndic's recommendation actually put into practice? If I didn't get it wrong, you told us no, what the syndic said was put into practice; and I would appreciate it if you would confirm that I understood it well. The report of the syndic denounces serious shortcomings in the generality's social policy, and we have to tell the syndic and we have to demand the syndic that I denounce with more force and energy these situations that he subtends to the social part of his report: the delays in payment, the evils practiced with minimal income, the lists of hope... To you, Mr. syndic, I believe that something is happening to him: when it comes to criticizing the Government of Spain you always push the to, you feel comfortable and put a little bit of order when it comes to the Government of the Generality. I'm not saying you don't, but they're asking for the same energy and the same efficiency that when it comes to Cerdanya airport, that you were very effective, so, just like with other issues, you have to prove the same strength and the same efficiency. But do you know what's going on, Mr. Syndic? We have the impression that we have a government that is dedicated to making castles in the air, to rolling around the world, to designing all sorts of imaginary plans for the future while people don't get up at the end of the month, can't find work or have to go through a bureaucratic calvary in order to start a business. It has to be recognized that Councillor Vila was right when he said something like this: "We have put a national poetry in the way, because, if not, the prose of the crisis could not have endured it. Okay. So, let's go to the prose of your report and what you're describing. And before that, I'd appreciate it... one thing for the future, Mr. Syndic. I say, the report is well done, but sometimes I lack some quantitative qualification of things. For example, it's said, isn't it? "Important shortcomings in the motivation for the denial of the minimum income income allowance. There are bad practices in the management. This is one example among many others. Are we talking about some small, concrete cases? Are we talking about something that you think is structural in the system? Are we talking about a lot of cases? - A few cases? I believe that a certain qualification in his statements, to say « is a very important subject or « we have received timely information about this subject... I know that in the end there are some tables, but it is not so easy to follow. I think it would be good to have a quantitative interpretation, too, of the problems to help in the work of the deputies. You talk to us about problems in the welfare, which are not being completed straight. And he says: "The Benestar Department..., and you say it very well, "The Benestar Department is not competent to decide not to recognize the subject rights. It is that it is not here to say whether we will pay or not to pay what we owe; it is, if any, to say when we will pay, how we will pay and how it will be done to complete the rights of the citizenry. You have filled in office activities to know the state of the waiting lists and have found col·lapse and lack of transparency. He tells us: "I have recommended that advertising be guaranteed. He's been accepted. Is it done? "I have recommended a consultation system that allows people to know where they are on the waiting lists. Did they accept it? What's going on? You're talking about defaults. And this is another issue that I think the syndic could report more commonly, because it affects entities, it affects many people. And this happens at the same time that we dedicate millions and millions of euros to opening offices of the Catalan tax agency that only use one hundred people. You're on the subject of forty-five-year-old majors. You've been paying a lot of attention to it lately, and I think it's a cool topic, really. Sometimes, to these people passes what there, to the Divine comedy, when they enter hell, that says that phrase of "that loses all hope who enters here. So, it can't be that the job loss at forty-five years or fifty years after that, a permanent entrance to hell because there's no hope anymore. And that's well reported. And that's a topic we all have to think about. You..., and I ask them: « What are the practicalities? And how do we get that? Why are you exposing some general ideas to get out of this situation, but as we stand, this? And here we all have to be creative and take responsibility. He talks about the kilometres waiting lists for public salvation. Do you know what the greeting counselor told us? We're looking forward to independence. Also for the country, others would say. Wait, too, the disease. All for the homeland. There's a distance from your report, Mr. Syndic, which seems to me to be especially sloppy, and I want to tell you. You are fixed in the speech of hate to social networks and you are quite rightly charged against offensive batons directed to Basques and Catalans, and you speak of catalanophobia. And does it exist? Yeah. And is it totally repugnant? Yeah. But why is it fixed only on one side of the coin, Mr. Syndic? Do you want me to teach you about our Twitters, members of this Parliament's People's Party? There is a difficult hispanophobia in Catalonia, and perhaps it is more invisible, and a saying: "But what do you say? So, yes, it's precisely more invisible because it's more structural, because over the past few years the mockery, the understatement of the Spanish reality has been permanent. And the word became true, like the Spanish steals from us. I accuse some Catalan elites of having formed a paradigm of rebuig, belgency and hatred against what Spain means, as a reality that oppresses, that steals, culturally deficient, democratically regrettable... Deia Prat de la Riba..., that did many magnificient things, but it said in one of his books: "As much as we were trying to exaggerate the apologia of what was ours, we were going to lower and lower everything that was castle, wrongly and rightly, without measure. So, this, not with Castella, but with Spain, is what happened here. And you'll tell us: "Yes, but it's fixed on what's written there, and fixed on what they've written, and fixed on what they've said. And yes, that's all, you're right, but that's precisely the problem: one's inability to recognize Spain's structural plurality, one's inability to recognize Catalonia's essential plurality. And if not, read the Koiné manifesto, which reflects this. And don't be unilateral in your judgment. Return to it, for example, as the Ciutadans Group has said, those families who have been hard hit to ask for their linguistic rights. It may be questionable; we defend it, which defends a 25_per_cent in the castle, we think they have right and which, moreover, has to apply, but it is questionable in any case the option. What can't be disputed is that there's a manifestation and it needs to be dealt with. And you will say to me: "Home, it's that this theme of..., it's that this linguistic theme is not very important, because we have very few cases, as you have said to us in some case. Do you know how many cases you have of gender discrimination complaints? One; one_about two_thousand. Ah, isn't there any gender discrimination in Catalonia? And as long as there is; for whatever it is, do not come to you. So, the same goes with the others. The same way I'm surprised that you devote so much interest to the subject of private television from the rest of the State and to the time you devote to different parties, and you don't put yourself with the raca-raca TV about the independence we have here in Catalonia. I'm done; I'm done, Mr. Syndic, with the theme of poor energy. There's been a lot of demagoguery here accusing the PP government of not caring about the poor energy, so, the! We bring to the Constitution a law and does not resort to the poor energy, does not resort to the poor energy. And, meanwhile, what did the generality do? Not much. I like to know that the union has such an excellent relationship with the electricity; it says that there is a relationship of a great flow of information, which I do not know if it is so effective to get the electricity to complete what is to be completed and to require the Generality to sign the agreement to be signed. Talk about transparency and information. Our group has been demanding to have access to the contracts of the Generalitat with an obscure international lobby that is called Independent Diplomat. He voted in Parliament, he voted yes, and they won't let us see him. What do they have to do with it? , as you say; what do you have to do with it? And now, yes, I do. He quoted you as El Quijote. I like it. He gave a writer of the last century that Spain had lost its historical nerve the day he had given up being Quixote to become Sancho. You're right. And it will always be a mistake to leave El Quijote's experience on the left, which is what we usually do, and it will always be a mistake, because politics is, in the end and in the end, the dialogue between Quixot and Sancho, between idealism and pragmatism, between idealism and reality. And that balance is the key, but this is another debate, which I don't know if the syndic can answer, but it doesn't correspond to me. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the words of Mrs Pilar Castilejo, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.128.0	All right. First of all, thanks to the Members who have stayed here to listen to the interventions, thanks to the members of the Government who have stayed here to listen to the interventions and thanks to the syndic and his team for the report they have submitted to us. We appreciate the strong and clear speech the syndic has made; we listened to him in this Parliament talking about rights, talking about freedom, talking about democracy, and we liked to feel it with this strength and with this clarity. We know that it is a mechanism to defend the rights of citizens and to defend the good and public interest. Among its functions has also been to listen to the complaints of all the people who are found to be helpless before the performance or, often, the lack of performance of the administrations. And its purpose is to help improve the functioning of the Generality, of the assemblies, of the deputies, of the regional councils, of the Administration in general. Besides, also, the syndic begins to act as supervisor of private companies serving public interest, such as now the light, the water, the gas... We understand that, with the presentation of this annual report, our gang's serious task is to detect those situations where, by way of action or omission from the Administration, the rights of the citizenry continue to be violated, whether or not the syndicate intervenes, and when there is no such intervention, ask for it from offices. And, on the other hand, one function we have today with this syndicate study is to assess the degree of improvement in these administrations and businesses for which people are being deprived. So, if we start with businesses, those that serve public interest, there are things that have improved in these businesses. What's improved is his results account. Endesa received a net benefit of more than €3,300_million in 2014, an increase of 77 and mig per cent compared to the previous year. Similar numbers have Natural Gas or Agbar. Meanwhile, the administrations, what we have created, are social foundations and solidarity with what we guarantee these scandalous benefits of managing companies, because what we are doing is passing public money into private hands. In this way, we are draining public funds destined to solve other challenges and other social needs. To his report, the syndic talks about the social foundations of these enterprises, of significant discounts of the minimum consumption; measures, sense of doubt, insufficient. Why would the situation of disempowerment of the people before this injustice really improve? Requiring the sub-managers to be responsible for the assumption of invoices and unpaid discards in cases of exclusion and emergence, not to create public funds, but to follow the companies, with their benefits, that assume these costs. It also talks to us about the report of the Law 24/2015 Syndic, promoted for thousands of signatures and approved unanimously in the plenary of the Parliament, which counts with a broad social consensus, but with a substantial part of its articulated appeal and suspension pending in hours of time for the Constitutional Court in this offensive of the Spanish State against our right to exercise sovereignty in areas as diverse as nuclear power plants, such as large surfaces, such as fracking, as equality between men and women or as a tax on empty habitats, to put just a few examples. Again, an example of how a bunch of magistrates decide over the legitimacy of a social majority, a parliamentary chamber and a whole people. It is true that on this occasion the article on poor energy has not been challenged; it has already done so in its day with the decree against poor energy. But it is not less certain that it is only necessary to have help for the sub-administrations if we do not guarantee the right to housing. Because this follow-up of the actions of the Constitutional Court must make it clear to us that today in Catalonia we want to exercise our sovereignty, want to guarantee fundamental social rights as before against the housing emergency, passes..., implies facing up to the Constitutional Court. Yesterday political, social forces, the government, the parliament and the local world made a common front before the debates of the Constitutional Court and the Spanish State. We think it's this way to go, but we make a call to this unit of action so we don't leave our gatherings alone at these moments. We talk about guaranteeing the minimum rights; we don't even think for a moment that with the law fully in force we had them guaranteed, these rights. It wasn't like that. There was only a tool in the hands of the local world, useful, yes, it is, a useful tool, but still insufficient to deal with the emergence; it does not cover all the needs: we continue to keep people on the street, we continue to have people with housing problems and we do not have to rent them. We are now claiming that this common front will cost the assembly of Catalonia that they will continue to meet the daily reality of families without home and to whom we will not be able to leave unmanned and without tools to face this reality. That's why the CUP ratifies itself in the need to defend the Law 24/2015, for three basic reasons. The first, its legitimized. Can't be questioned, this law. Other legislative instruments will be more legitimate, and, above all, we have no guarantee that they will not be suspected again. Second place, because the local world will need to continue applying it. Because this law, from which we all learn practical utility, equips us with the smallest tools to deal with social emergence before the banking entities and the big corporations that are dedicated to espola. And, in the third place, because to endorse the suspension means to admit that first the defense of the benches and the great habitators went ahead of the people, and that we will never endorse it. Today, the defense of the right to habitation must walk from the hand of disobedience. And only one last point on this issue of housing. He speaks, his report, of demanding that a minimum of 30_percent of the habitats that Sareb has obtained at a low price is destined for the social logger. There's not enough with this 30_per_cent. In the banks we rescued them with public money, and these floors, before the current emergence and lack of housing to cover the needs, must be all public. We ask the trustee to go a little further, and I also study the possibility that part of the public housing of the Imsol will also be allocated to the social loguer, without this being an additional expense for the local administration. Finally, as we seek among all the more global responses, to reverse the model that allows speculation and to condemn us to the poor. For what it does to other points of the annual report, we would refer only to some areas of action where we believe that there is a long way to go in front of better public administrations with reference to the disempowerment of people. In October 2014, Law 11/2014 came into force to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia; but, at hours of the day – and this makes clear the syndic's report – the law's rules have not yet been implemented, and the deadline for doing so has not been completed, nor has the sanctioning regime been implemented. This makes us have a specific law, but no specific measures. It's no use for practically nothing and converts it into dumb paper. It is also urgent to provide the National Council of LGTBI with the powers envisaged by the rule and it is urgent to make the necessary dissemination of the law. Without all this, we have a law without engine, a law pioneer to the world, but it cannot be applied. The Government of the Generality must take the necessary steps to implement it. In the field of salvation, there are many complaints that the syndic has rejected: waiting lists, CAP tanks, staff reduction... We will take advantage of the presentation of his report to refer to an institute of which is spoken a little, that of medical assessments, ICAM. We have already heard about other parliamentary groups because it is an issue that we see affecting many people. ICAM often gives high force to people who are not on working conditions and cannot claim before an institution. I've been reported by labor unions before the syndicate. His report talks about ICAM, as it often does not respect the rights of persons for whom confidentiality, privacy, the possibility of changing the centre and the faculty, the little respect and unworthy treatment of persons. All in all, we believe it forces the Health Department's focus to be placed on this institute. It is necessary to demand forcefully that ICAM professionals complement the right card, that they respect people and that if they do not do so, the corresponding measures be taken to remove them from the service. In the field of justice, we want to make a couple of actions. Mrs Vehi did not speak this morning in her parliamentary office, with the question to the Government, but we want to insist on these issues because they seem vitally important to us. The Sindico de Greuges warns on a periodic basis about the conditions of the so-called "special departments of closed regime, the DERTs, of Catalan prisons, where the winging regime applies. A DERT is a measure that supposes the confinement in cell up to twenty-one hours a day, with a daily outing to the patient, an intervention of the psychologist in the week, and another activity in the course of seven days. It is one of the rules of life for the most severe prisons that can be found in Spanish legislation, and amplified by different international organizations. Let us not forget that the UN Committee against Torture reiterates that prolonged confinement in prisons, as is the case with DERT, is an institutional mistreatment. And, in fact, the same Directorate General of Prison Services sets out what should be the criteria for the application of this measure, which requires that they remain absolutely exceptional. Along with this exceptional character, at Catalan prisons the application of the closed regime is usual, according to human rights defenders. There is not enough, therefore, with the warnings made by the syndic, but that it is an exhaustive follow-up that brings to public light the conditions of defence of the human rights that cause these closed rules to Catalan prisons and that end with these practical ones. Also, and without leaving Catalan prisons behind, we want to talk about the mechanisms of torture prevention that the syndic has spoken with force in his exposition, and about the application of the Istanbul protocol, which, as he quite rightly said, is a stranger to Catalonia. We believe that the implementation of this protocol needs to be followed up because it is a crucial instrument in the global effort to end impunity for those responsible for torture in a comprehensive, effective, swift and impartial manner. And not only of the prisons, but as we have seen in cases of sad news, we also have to do this follow-up to the primary care centers. Also recommends the syndic to his report the definite closure of the CIE of Zona Franca. These internment centers are illegal and racist arrests that legalize barbarism and break open and project. In July 2015, Parliament adopted a resolution defining the CIE as an undisclosed legal anomaly and considering it as a clear time frame for the essential content of the right to dignity. The Councillor of Justicia, the Carles Mundó, has also claimed the non-re-opening of the Barcelona CIE. We must denounce the systemic criminalization of migrants and the repression they are under when they exercise their right to freedom of movement. We all agree, therefore, with the CIE's lock, but we insist on claiming, as society does, the definite lock. The syndic said, also in his exhibition – and I enjoyed feeling this phrase – that a right cannot wait. We think this must be the hope when we look at this whole report. We're talking about rights, and we can't wait, and we're also talking about those people who think that the answer at these times is going to put legitimacy in front of legality, as we've seemed to sense in this exhibit that the syndicate made. We finish with a sentence from Lluís Maria Xirinacs, who came to the chief reading the entire report of the Synod of Greuges: "We will fight against the strong while we are still weak, we will fight against ourselves when we are still strong. May this be our spirit. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.129.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The words of Mr. Antoni Balasch, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.130.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, syndic, from Junts for the Yes we would like to begin by highlighting the role of the heavy labor union, an important role in supporting and defending the administration, supporting and defending citizens and their most elementary rights. In one of the previous interventions of the other groups there has been much talk of contextualization, and, as I believe there are some axes that affect us very directly, I would like to make a first contextualization. That's to say, when it detects a heel, first look if it has a heel or no heel; if it doesn't have a heel, it falls, and if it has a heel, we have to see if it can be fixed. If it can be solved, it remains resolved – I am contextualizing –, if it cannot be solved, we have to see what causes fan that is not able. These causes may be close to the Administration or aliens. If they're close, I can report them and correct them, but if they're aliens, I can report them and see who they are, too. And here is where I would like to make an observation and a reflection on the whole chamber because there are many causes alien to the capacity of the Government of Catalonia that affect the solution of the hardships, which are: the lack of economy, the lack of presupposition in this economic hardship that we have with the Spanish State, with the objective of competence and with a constitutional court that adds up; this is a context. And, in addition, I would also like to say that we should also be watching the general not to generalize the individual; not to elevate him to the general category, because we could run perils that would make us lose objectivity. I begin by addressing the volume of data in the 2015 report, which details an increase of about 10_per_cent in complaints; some complaints that are embedded in a crisis context, in a context of corporate failure, in a context where there are many defaults and where there are also – and this is positive – a greater knowledge of the union of hardships, so that citizens are more easily approached because there is a greater knowledge. And the complaints reflect the impact of this economic and social crisis, and so you recognize the same report, as about 30_percent of the complaints refer to social policy areas and a 25_percent refer to consumption. Let's just say that both of us have a very direct dependence on what we said before: the competitive framework and the economic capacity of the government. It is very important, therefore, of all this volume of complaints that have been made... – I think the syndic said that they were around fifty_ thousand, if I don't recall badly, in the intervention –, that is to say that there are fewer complaints to the administrative procedures; while there have been an increase of 10_per_cent, there is no less, of administrative procedures. Therefore, the Administration works better, more quickly. Do we have to give ourselves up for satisfaction? More. But it's true that we work faster. It detects a greater care of administrations from these data to regulate laws and administrative procedures. It detects a greater willingness and a good performance of the different departments, and this continuous improvement, to which ugly reference. We also have to do, therefore, the same way that we thank the syndic, the different departments in this effort that has been visualized with data. In this report, it is also clear that there is a good collaboration between the syndicate and the administrations and companies, as has also been referred to, given that there are 98.4_percent of cases that have been fully accepted. We celebrate it, it's a good way, and, to be sure, it's a good piece of work, which I must thank and which I can claim, both on the part of the union, as well as for the administrations and these companies that answer, so that these numbers come out with this percentage so high. As well as the increase in complaints that have been submitted, however, we believe that it is very relevant a data that says that in 50_percent of cases there has been no inaccuracy in the performance; therefore, of the complaints submitted, 50_percent falls. Why? It has already been said: because it has not been appreciated, or because it cannot be admitted, or because the same interested party has not given up. Therefore, 50_per_cent fall. We believe that this is also a positive indicator for this function that indicates this significant improvement in function. And we also appreciate the power that has lowered the processing time and complaints compared to 2014. Do we have to give ourselves up for satisfaction? No, no, But there's effort, there's will, are we on the road? Yes; therefore, we must appreciate it. As much as, I say again, there have been freight forwarders, and as much as, it has to be said, there are new competitions – it has been said before –: the law of genera, the law of equality, the LGTBI and also everything that makes reference to transparency. The syndic has already said, that this has also brought them more work and that, therefore, it is a situation, let's say, that we thank the workers of the union for this effort that they are making with these expanded skills. Moreover, at the time of interpreting these data – I have already done so before, but – we take into account the uniqueness of the historical moment of crisis, of debt, of a lack of liquidity of the Generality because what has to come up and up late, and this stops many of the solutions that the Administration has, and this lack of resources. And let's give this to contextualize, as we have said before, and value, in the measure, that it touches, the effort of the different departments of the Generality; some efforts that are limited for the ability of economic response, that it gave. And I would like to reflect here: the need for response is not equal to the ability to respond. Again, the need for response is not equal to the ability to respond. Therefore, we would like this context also to be taken into account at the time of the corresponding analysis. The first block to which reference has been made is the large social data protection block, which is about 30_per_cent, more or less, of requests. So, very telegraphically: delays in the payment of benefits, the situation of dependency, the minimum income of insertion, lack of coverage of needs, residential services with lack of economic resources, economic vulnerability to access to basic sub-administrations, lists of hope of salvation, right to affordable housing to assume the economic cost, taxation that gives support to people and collectivities most in need... All this, what needs, all that I have just read now? Major economic contribution. If we want, we can look at another side, but either we have greater economic input or, by the good will we have, we need it, but we don't have the ability to give it an answer. Therefore, we have to refer, once again, to this context. And here we wouldn't like it, and the day we talked about it in committee... I put it as an example that we wouldn't like to be accused... let's imagine the case of a person who's in front of the pool, sees someone, takes it and throws it in the water. We can accuse that person who got dressed in water – we can accuse her, that's right – who we don't look at is the one who generated the cause that causes that person to fall into water, who is the most just, to go to the principle of the chain. This referent would also like us to make it clear here. We are convinced that if the economic hardship at which Catalonia is submissive is solved, all these social welfare problems will remain – if not all, most of them – will be solved. Because – and someone said it here before, too – that with these fears we are all agreed. So, if we agree, let's go to the origin and go to the search, and ask the other parliamentary groups that we all go to look at the origin and go to find the point that activates the solution to give response to the needs of the weakest in our society. The other large area is the one that refers to the volume of complaints, about a 25_per_cent, and that can face it with emergency measures of sub-administration for themes: water, gas and electricity. I will try to go quickly because time is slipping away, but: Read 24/2015, we know it, we know it, positive value on the part of the syndic, the Catalan Consumer Agency is compromising it, but – but – the law on invoices, for which it refers to consumption, at the state level, we cannot demand – the syndic makes reference – to these companies that are much clearer, because the legislation is state-level. But to these laws he was commenting on now: the Constitutional has left us with no strength to activate them. And today, this morning, there was a meeting to see all the folds and all of them together as strength from our abilities, as far as we can, to give response to these people who are so in need. And I will no longer talk about the unconstitutionality of other laws, and I could refer, therefore, to some specific camp: the issue of salvation, the waiting lists. There is the firm will of the Government, of Juntes for the Yes, to compliment the terms of guarantee and reference of the waiting lists. This is why you have a plan of action, which in a term that is expected to be twelve_months from the approval of the assumptions – the day we can approve them – to complete the important skills in time of waiting for surgical interventions, diagnostic tests and consult the specialist. It must also be said that despite – despite – that they are, in December 2015 there was already time to wait with procedures such as heart surgery, or oncology, or some others. For what the housing does, I would like to say – also to make clarifications – that there is, and for what it refers to the procedure of awarding social housing, recently the Agency of the Housing of Catalonia has resolved the approval of the regulation of the Valuation Board for situations of economic and social emergencies of Catalonia, in which all the girl recommendations for the Synod of Greuges have been taken into account and incorporated. Moreover, for the management of the public housing park, it must be borne in mind that many of the syndic's proposals and recommendations were already due to the Catalonia Habitat Agency, and other proposals or recommendations have been established from Law 24/2015, which we now have to see how we can look to solve it. For the need to increase the stock of housing destined for social logger, many actions have taken place. Law 1/2015, extraordinary and urgent measures for the mobilization of housing from mortgage execution. The approval of Law 14/15, of the tax on empty habitats – I quote telegraphed why time went by, huh? Up to 1,830 the number of empty habitats sold to financial entities has increased. The source of lloger habitats for social policies has been created. The 24/2015 Law also establishes a whole series of very long and very determined measures for such a... Isn't that enough? I'm sure he didn't. Is that a long time ago? Yeah, and we shouldn't miss it, that. For what it does to refugees, we share the position of the syndic demanding of the policy of the European Union as much as possible in the attention of these human people who need help and support. We share it perfectly, and that is why we have transferred to the State the will to gather, from the Secretary of Equality, Migration and Citizenship, this request has been made. In addition, measures have been taken to provide information to the refugees we may have, and in addition, to establish a permanent scheme for the collection of refugees in coordination with the Catalan municipalities. For what he does to torture – we have already talked about it in committee too – there is a total agreement that there is a disconnection from the Istanbul protocol. Moreover, we have to say that there is the will that is known, and there is not only the will that is known, but that since the Catalan Institute of Health and the Prison Health Programme, organizational actions have already begun to prepare for the training course from professional contacts between the syndic's office and experts in the matter in order to resolve this information to which it refers. For what it does in childhood, we will already have the specific debate – we will already have the specific debate – and, therefore, we will already mention it in its moment. But to end up – I understand, as far as time is concerned, that we are coming to the final stage – I would like to, as a recurring theme here – and some political party that has complained a lot but percentage spoke much more of language than of all the other cases, with which we also see sensitivity going through bars – but I would like, I would like to say, if in the turn of the speech I could refer to the report of the Council of Europe of the generation of 2016 – of this past generation – which makes reference, therefore, to the action of Catalonia in the topic of linguistic immersion and linguistic normalization in the marque of minority languages, such as the Spanish agreement of support to the European minorities, which we would like to see. The syndic has said that there is no case of obstruction to the syndic of Greuges from the Administration. We congratulate ourselves on it, and we congratulate ourselves on it, it's a great deal. It means that we are enormously sensitive not only to work, not only to the defence of the rights of the citizens, but that there is an answer and, therefore, I think it is a very phoneous fact. And finally I would like to say a phrase that the syndic said to the inician, which says: "We have rights beyond the rights. Catalonia, like the country, also has more right beyond the rights, with these elementary rights, and Catalonia knows it and we all have to work to solve it, because solving it means solving the economy, which means solving the problems of people so needy that we referred to. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.131.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then there's the word the heavyweight syndic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.132.0	Thank you, President. A first reminder that I always make in the syndic's committees: I do not have to go into debates of parliamentary plurality; it is not for the syndic to go into contrasting the legitimate position of such a group or such others, that this is democracy; the syndic must be based on a phone book, which is in the model of the ombudsman, and I say with all the experience, that I have after a lot of strange ombudsmen and I have to be very proud to have been recognized as being elected as the new president of all of them in Europe, of independence and rigour. You unanimously voted for me for this second term, and as you can understand for me, it is a gesture of pride and gratitude – of pride and gratitude – of all parliamentarians. But from this grace I assure you that neither rigour nor independence will we abandon you nor a milligram in our actions. And it will always be for the world – if by the world they believe that it is wise, therefore, "different – of legitimate and necessary debate that there must be democracy between different options; that no one has the truth, nor much less, and that we must add to each of the options. And we will never be able to respond from the party perspective – legitimately partisan, eh – or when a councillor makes an erroneous criticism – because he is mistaken for information – to the syndic, or when a parliamentary leader attempts to discredit the syndic's person without contrasting his information; we will never, of course, enter there at all when the microphone is – forgive the expression – put in front of or the quick statement and neither here, if it is not to contrast data on rights, rights that we have in charge for the State its guarantee, or on policies. And we'll do it as rigorously as we can. You could tire them out with examples of rigour and endurance. It was the same rigour and strength when we said that the Squadron Mosses had disproportionately used the force to dislodge the Rectorate of the University of Barcelona during the so-called "afers de Bolonya", as when they dislodged the Plaza Catalunya with the events of the indignant. And I talk to them about very different colors of ruling options. And the same rigour and strength when we talked about child malnutrition, knowing that we were going to be full on two sides. Oddly enough, it's spoken in a lot of directions, not to mention the universe, about this same factor. With the same rigour and strength when we speak that we can't store behind some protocols if they have been interpreted or not when there are abuses of concerted schools. With the same rigour and strength as we've defended the VISC project, and we'll defend it soon in committee because we'll have your debate. Or the resolution on the illegal trade, with the same rigour and condence with which we have planted it. Or the same rigour and strength with which we described the 2011 minimum income management as "fatal administration". And we don't stop to think if they're gray, dark, blue or whatever. Let's see if there's a damaged right and, if there is, we'll go out and defend him. And in this sense – and I could hate them – on the list, remember that there is a set of reports pending to be debated in this Parliament. We present them with the highest celerity. Many fears that I have quoted, again on the subject of abuses, have things pending, and discussed. On the theme of motorways, on the theme of things that directly affect childhood: school zero-three years, on the right to vote... There is a list, not a short list, of important issues for the company that the syndic says, again, with clarity, before the area in which he has to hold back, the only area in which he has to hold back, that we are pending to be summoned to discuss everything that affects rights. To the band that have all the information, not just in these reports, to the syndic's website, and on the ground, sea and air, and if there's still a channel we don't practice, please tell us to open it. And with all the authority and workloads, yes – he has already said – now there are nine competitions, yes, that of transparency. With so much authority that the Spanish General Courts the only defender to summon because they appeared to report on transparency made the Greuges Council of Catalonia when they came to make the Law of Transparency at the level of the Spanish State valuing what work had been done since 2010, because we were the wanderer of which the European Union and the Council of Europe with the topic of transparency and access to information, we went beyond what had been done; well, still there is still Xipre and some more reality, but of the more advanced democracies, the wanderer of which, and they summoned us to the General Courts because the Greuges Council – not the Sindic Rafael Ribó, no – the institution of the Greuges Council, since 2010 has a job done, accumulated, that it is the transempt of all. That said, answers to concrete questions that have been raised to me. Let's go back to it, as we did a year ago – and I'm saying it with all the ‘kindness of the world' – on the subject of language. We, the year 2015, because this is the 2015 report – they don't make me go to polemics that aren't from 2015 –, the year 2015 we're going to get out of the way to know the « events of Balaguer, with an act of office, stating directly that there has been no discrimination to the family because you ask what you ask about language teaching. And we wanted to address it to the Administration, to the school authorities, and we wanted to address them to all those areas where we seemed to be able to act. Another case that was mentioned by Mrs Rivera's deputy, who is Mataró's, who quoted us to the committee, we don't know him, knows the deputy that we entered the directive that she mentioned to investigate him, and it's a topic that's already closed. And every time you know something about these, you have – forgive me if I say so – the obligation – forgive me for going so far – to communicate it to the syndicate, that I guarantee you that with the same certitude you will investigate them. But, of course, we don't make that the screen I typed the language rights in Catalonia. Why the Council of Europe, in its report of 2016 – 2016, eh? – does it pose us again as an example of linguistic coexistence? In the Council of Europe there is all the Spanish parliamentary arch. That's not the Greuges Syndic, is it? This just happened. And, therefore, the syndic of hardships..., obviously he will attend to all the requests and petitions that you pose to him any person or citizen of Catalonia, especially on a subject as important as language. And you know, the deputies who work on the subject of the syndic and who enter the report, that all complain, overcome, but all, who are revenant on the subject of linguistics are solved, with a lot of exception – a lot of it –: forces and bodies of state security. In the only issue we can't solve them. That's just a few, huh? I say again, there are very few; and also in this case: joints that do not provide documentation in castle to the people who ask for it; with the highest celerity, resolution of the syndic and facilitate it. People who are not catalated when they trick certain public services: with the highest celerity, we get it. The very few that we may have are solved with a huge celerity, less in a lot: that we have not yet achieved a pedagogy because I understand that in Catalonia, in the relationship with the forces and the security, we cannot say to anyone: "Change language. No one has the right to be... to ask him to hold on to the language he uses, but no one has the right to force him to change his language. And I wonder what happens to other defenders. Why are there only five cases of linguistic issues in the Ombudsman's memo? You don't trust him either? Therefore, we do not deal with the subject of language, which is very important and which we must continue to work on it, and that the syndic will immediately be attentive to any complaint or demand that I may have when I see that there has been damage to rights..., not in fact, of this subject, which is not in our society. Another demand that has been made to me: the subject of hate. We remain very vigilant on the subject of hatred. And when we saw that in the Germanwings accident, when there are families that have their relatives dead, it is said: "I wish they were all Catalans. Or when it is said: « Fusilen a Arthur Mas. I am not talking about cultural criticisms or jokes, I am talking about threats of extreme physical violence, as defined by the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, which is a hate speech. I don't go into the bar... There, who wants to go in there, the syndic won't go in and analyze who made such a joke or such another, or who makes a cultural approach... We'll always go into cases where there's a rape like the one I just mentioned; how it caused a 14-year-old boy to be due overnight to the National Audience, for the Fènix Army, for having e-mailed, an electronic mail. They're taking the night off at the National Audience. There was no answer, no demand for action against the hatred I just mentioned. There was no responsibility assumed for anyone when the candidate for the presidency of the Generality, who was then president of the Generality, in the middle of the electoral campaign..., said that he had gross accounts in Switzerland, taking an official report from the Spanish police. And yet today no one has taken on this responsibility at the time when it was affecting such a sacred right in democracy as it is forming an opinion on the right to vote. The syndic will continue to say this, and he will continue to say it with rigour and stamina as if it were from another politician or from another candidate. The speech of hate..., we are all the defenders of Europe conxorxates to go to raise it all up, because Europe runs a great risk of falling more and more into hate, as you see in Poland, as you see in Hungary, as mentioned here, and as you can pass in our very society. We are not immunized, nor are we much less, against the inter-community confrontation, as we have said before and as is the report of the syndic of the year 2015. And with this we are very close to Mr. Nils Muiznieks, the highest authority in Europe, the European commissioner of human rights. Third question: whether we have signed the agreement that emanates from a law as the equality of gender, which is now touched by the constitutional demand. We have met with the Catalan Institute of the Dona, a few past; if 'nsha talked about the possibility and perspective of this convenient, it is not yet signed this convenient, that it is approached four gangs with the judiciary, with the prosecutor, the government and the syndic of Greuges of Catalonia. We do already have date, on the 11th, to sign the agreement – it has widened, perhaps – that emanates from the Law of the rights of the LGTB and non-discrimination. And, lastly, it is asked that you repeat what is on the report: what is the degree of acceptance of the syndic's resolutions? And what is the degree, above all, of follow-up? I say again that you accept, totally or partially, 98_percent of the syndic's resolutions. And in everything we're following, and they're holding the report's statistical pages, a 1_per_cent where there's a partial compliment, and a 99_per_cent where there's a total compliment – they're holding it there. For example, if you say to me: "Minimum income, 295 complaints, 425 queries, 2 acts of office. Or, then, ask me everything you say that, if you rely on us, or have it written on these three-hundred pages that have been cited, or on the thousands of pages that you have on the syndic's website; they have all the resolutions of the syndic's web pages, and with all the reports, some of them discussed, but of other, honourable and honourable Members, they ask you... that they can be discussed in this chamber or in committee. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.133.0	Thank you very much, syndic. [[Greetings.]] In the name of the chamber, I would like to thank the heavyweight syndic and his entire team for their participation in this plenary session. The session is suspected until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.134.0	It's part of the session. [[Proposal for a law amending the legislation on audiovisual communication in Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00014/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is the debate on the proposal for a law amending the legislation on audiovisual communication in Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.135.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, Members, Members, this proposal that we bring to the plenary the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has different objectives, but the main one, what we think is absolutely necessary, is to regulate our Catalan audiovisual space better. Opening the doors and enriching us with the knowledge that professionals in the sector can bring us is a priority for us, and in this sense our proposal was also addressed. It is necessary to open a standard debate on the regulatory bodies and managers of audiovisual communication in Catalonia in order to improve the application of the principles to which they are subject, such as neutrality, such as impartiality, such as plurality of information, and to establish the law's willingness to find the highest possible consensus at the time of choosing its direct organs, both from the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and from the Catalan Audiovisual Council. Professionalizing the management of these bodies is another of the lines that we want to propose, as well as establishing a maximum period in which the programme contract can be extended, which is precisely where the lines to follow and the objectives to be held are set. We know that there are many other reforms to be made. You know that. And that is why our parliamentary group has already given support to other motions from other parties in the chamber that have presented themselves a few weeks ago, such as the motion submitted by the Socialist Party concerning, among other things, the qualitative criteria for assessing pluralism. And also the advances that we are working on in other initiatives to, in this way, continue to advance in the deficits that we believe we currently have in the audiovisual sector. And we also know that there are other groups of this chamber working in this direction. But what we want to do today is take a first step and bring this presentation of this bill to debate. With regard to the stated objectives, it is clear that the governing bodies of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and the Catalan Audiovisual Council must undergo a reform and must make a change of course in order to achieve de-government in the exercise of their functions. There are many critical views of respect that demand a change in this sense, not only from Ciutadans, but also from other groups in the chamber, in one sense or another, but also from the same collections in the professional sector, such as the TV3 Business Committee, such as the different unions, such as different groups of journalists. When you see so many complaints in the same direction and so many different sectors, it's obvious that there is something that doesn't work and it's a good show of this lack of neutrality, impartiality and plurality of information that exists today in the Catalan media; some complaints that, I want to repeat, have even reached the Council of Europe. We therefore believe that it is necessary to take the maximum possible measures to ensure this independence and neutrality of the regulatory bodies. Mirin, the Junts per el Si election program in the past elections on September 27 said the corporation was to be a state structure. So mirin, no. Corporation doesn't have to be a state structure. The corporation, which is to be an independent body that manages these global and partyist principles... that you want to appropriate for the benefit of a concrete ideology. And I'll give you some examples of how these principles are not being met that should be governed by the different Catalan regulatory bodies. One is the scandalous case of litigation at El Punt Avui, where there are different ACC agreements in which the same regulator protects emissions that systematically violate the conditions of litigation, some conditions that the operator is required to perform a specific programming for each demarcation of the local TDT. And what does El Punt do today? So it sends with total impunity the same contents to all demarcations. And what's the ACC doing in front of this, that's who would have the power to monitor and control this situation? So let's get on with it. Yes, it always does with the President's quality vote and with the votes of the councillors appointed to the proposal of the governing parties. What kind of regulator more neutral and impartial, huh? So the truth is, no. We think it needs to be changed, and it needs to work in a counter-direction of what it's done so far. Other examples that can be found and that are truly scandalous respect for this lack of plurality of our media are the agreements that were approved, again with the President's quality vote, which is a very common task and which was, of course, chosen at the proposal of Democratic Convergence..., as is the one of the informative treatments of the event « Catalonia, New State of Europe ; InfoK children's information, which approached the Catalan road towards independence and where they used smaller to make independent propaganda ; the Special information program consults, issued for 3/24 and for TV3, etc. And all this without going into debate and talking about plurality exist in the tertules of our public television. Our point of view, frankly, is a real scandal and a real shame. I assure you that the current situation is very far from what we believe to be a quality public media, and in this direction our proposal was also made. When we talk about opening doors is, among others..., solving this lack of plurality... some media that, by the way, I want to remember that we pay all Catalans, not just those who think like the government, and that they must be of all Catalans, not just those who have a similar position to that of our government. He could follow with many more examples and with communications from the Journalists' Colleges in recriminating this manipulation of communication media. But I honestly believe that it is clear what we need to change, what we need to change to achieve this real public service function that has our media, a public service that should certainly be much more transparent, which we find lacking, for example, in the case of institutional advertising. Transparent both in the disaggregation of the concepts of the relevant campaign and the import contracted for each of the media as for the real purpose of informing public services. Mirin, I'm sure you'll remember this campaign, the 'Preparations' campaign. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] A lot of similarities, isn't it? With the ANC's previous campaign? Can you tell me who you're serving, what public service information, tea, this campaign? Because I honestly don't see her anywhere. Moving on to another of the objectives of this proposal, and which has been linked to what we have set up so far, is to achieve the maximum consensus to choose the direct organs of both the Catalan Midjans Corporation and the Catalan Audiovisual Council. And that's why what we're asking to establish the law is that your choice is chosen, as much first as in the second ballot, by two thirds, unlike what is currently going on, that in the second ballot you can choose by an absolute majority. Consensus is an indicator of democratic quality in the measure of incorporating the different sensitivities that exist in a society. I will not tire of repeating it: with more consensus, more democracy, and more plurality, also more democracy. You always tell us that the current members have already been chosen by these majorities, and I will deny them the major. But, all the way, even though it was so, what problem do they have then to establish it at the law? There shouldn't be a problem. And I told them that I would deny them to the Major because I don't know if you remember, at the end of last parliamentary term, that there was the appointment of a councillor who was proposed to the Republican Left and who was chosen by an absolute majority in the second vote. Interestingly, this name was produced after the breakup of Convergence and Union, even though it did two years that the place was vacant, since September 2013. And, curiously, this vote was decided because the resignation of the former director of Catalonia Radio was produced. All very curious. We can't even politicize the names of the cartels, and with reference to this too, as I said before, the complaint that was made by the Journalists' Union to the Council of Europe. And an example of this policy is, among others, the appointment of the new director of Television Information in Catalonia or the same director of the channel. We must ensure that these directorates can demonstrate their professional success and career path. That's why we're asking for this proposal for law that there are fifteen years of experience in the audiovisual sector. And that's not something we made up from Citizens. It is already moving to different organizations in Catalonia, such as, for example, the Board of State Guarantees or the Union of Accounts. And it also goes to other bodies of the rest of Spain, such as the Court of Auditors. Therefore, we believe that this is one more requirement, one more requirement to increase the professionalism of those who have to manage our bodies. Probably not the only one, but it is one more request. And in this sense I also want to say and I also want to express that we are open to putting on the table all those proposals and all those solutions that we can bring to us and that we know are also working on the different political parties, and also on the same workers, who surely enrich us a lot and who also benefit to greet. Finally, it respects the program contract, which is where the objectives to be set to the corporation for a four-year period are established, we believe that what needs to be done is to renew it when it is near. It can't be that we've been doing it since 2009 without renewing it, because this, in the first place, creates an insecurity for the same workers, but it also creates an insecurity for the corporation itself, since what they can't do is visualize what is the full route to follow. Therefore, we believe that we have to shape the law that what happens today is not produced, and in this line our proposal also went. In conclusion, we believe that this law proposal... is small changes to improve the quality of our audiovisual media. We are sure that they are not the only ones, they are not the only ones needed, but they are very important steps to move forward in ending this instrumentation that exists in this field. The will of Citizens, and I want to make it clear, is to be able to have the best public audiovisual media in Catalonia, some media that are open, some media that are plural, some media that are neutral and that are also an example for everyone. From City to City, we call on the consistency and common sense of this chamber to bring forward the process of this bill's proposal, and we want it to be so that we can be pioneers in the way we understand how all these regulatory bodies are managed. Mirin, yesterday was World Press Freedom Day. I don't think there's any better way to celebrate that today by approving this bill. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.136.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. As the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes has withdrawn the message to totality, we will now proceed to the turn of interventions to fix position. In the first place, has the word Mr David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.137.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Advisers, deputies, deputies, representatives of the workers– Ràfols, Martínez, Espuny –, mirin, we are clearly in favour of this process of this law. And, of course, we are also clearly in favour of other procedures that are alive, among which Catalonia has submitted Yes, it is Pot and it has submitted the same SGP; we have parliamentary precedents and we would like to see that it is possible to process jointly and that it can be approved in a single opinion. I am convinced that David Mejía will help us with this possibility. Because, indeed, the Law of Audiovisual has to be amended. And why does it have to change? So, look, because we have to go back to the consensus on the radio model and public television, we have to go back to that consensus we had, not like now. Because we must return to respect for diversity and respect for plurality, not like now. Because we have to get back to a quality TV that's coming back day I'm winning an audience, not like right now. Because we have to go back to a television that's from a plural country, to everyone's service and where everyone feels comfortable with this public television, not like now, that it's only a TV to the process service and only those who agree with this process feel happy about it. I'll explain. We need to get back to the consensus on the public radio and television model. The names that have been made..., no one agrees with the way in which the names of the address of the public media have been made, no one; there is no parliamentary group of this chamber, in the band of Juntes per el Si, that agrees with how these names have been made. Everyone is against it: it is against the Journalists' College, it is against all workers' unions and it is against the whole sector, foreign journalists who have publicly stated that this is not the way to make appointments in the direction of public radio and television. And we have to go back to the consensus. What do you mean, return to consent? Mr. David Mejía perfectly explained this: let's go back to the Tresserras law, go back to a two-thirds appointment at the time of making these appointments. You can do it, counselor, believe me, you can do it – you can do it. It's more, there's unanimity in this room that you do that. And for that reason, we can do it and we can do it. We will return to the Tresserras law because the names can be made with these two thirds of the majority of this Parliament. Because we're not questioning the ability or value of people who can name, no, that's not the problem; it's a form problem, it's a process problem and it's a problem the way it happened. Because we have moved from consensus in the appointment of public authorities to the equal distribution between parties that support the government; yes, they do exclude the UPC. Because we have moved from professionalism to value in making these appointments to belonging to one or another political ideology. And why we went to make the appointments when they try to make some appointments when it suits the party that supports the government. I insist, all the unions, the sector, the Journalists' College, everyone is against these nominations. Moreover, we must return to respect for freedom and plurality. Mr. Mejía, I insist, has given some examples. We could do a lot more, and I don't have to do one that happened a few days ago. We..., celebrated the 137th anniversary, to say the least, of the founding of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. Is there anything you can say to public radio and television? The normal would be no. So, look, yes, something was said; they made reference to this celebration, they said that today the PSOE can only help extend the spectrum of evil and old politics, power for power. And at the PSC, the Catalan branch, things didn't get any better. The PSC wants to sort out as leader the socialist who has been negotiating the possible government pact with the anti-Talanist Citizens, with a PSC that is no different in terms of centralism, Spanish nationalism and the filibusterism of the PSOE. This is what is said to the public radio on the day that is celebrating the 137th anniversary of the founding of the PSOE. It's not worth it, it's not worth it. Ending up, yes, saying that he doesn't want the PSOE to be the lead on the track while dancing the Queen and her Don't Stop Me Now and play them dancing the most. Is that what you have to say at 137... on PSOE's birthday? No, I'm sure you don't think so, but do you know what the problem is? There are other people in this country who think something else. And that can't be the only thing that you see on radio and public television on a subject like this. That's the drama. Why, if there's someone listening to the radio right now, does he know what it is? Delete it – delete it. And that's what's going on: that, every once in a while, radio and public television have fewer audiences. And if you, and if you advise her, and if the President of the Generality says: "We are very plural because we have a lot of audience, and every day we spend less, so every day we spend less plurals. And, attention, this month's data is the worst given of all TV3 history; the worst, as far as audience is concerned. We never had such a low audience; we had to stop being leaders, by the way. That's never happened before. The record we've been through, the year 2007, the 18th, the 16th, and now we're in 12. We went down a year back a year. Each time this television and this public radio are smaller; every time this radio and public television represent less of the reality of this country. That's why, I insist, it's worth pushing this parliamentary initiative forward, because also, and as I said before, we need to make a television that is more plural, in which everyone feels a little more like it. We said it the other day, when we were discussing with Albert, with the representative of the CUP: we want diversity of views, we want diversity of women's voices, of young people's voices, of alternative voices, of dissidents' voices, of different voices, of refugees' voices. And it is essential that these views, that this plurality is also on the radio and public television in our country. Why do we care? No, for the sake of the country, because it interests the country to have a radio and a public television where everyone feels like it. And for this process, count with us; I insist, count with us. We believe in this project. Now, if you want to keep going to yours and if every time we complain here, that's what you see as an attack I don't know what, so we're not doing anything at all. In short, moving forward with the initiative. I would like to insist that it is possible to deal with other initiatives that at this time you are already entering this Parliament which, in short, speak of the same, except that of Catalonia, which is Pot, which went much further in many fears, but which we can talk to them and which we will certainly also find elements of consensus. We must return and we must return to the consensus on the radio and public television model, we must return to respect for diversity and plurality, and we must return to quality, which we have gained an audience, and we must return, in short, to a country television that is more plural every day, more fun and more to everyone's taste. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.138.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.139.0	Thank you, President. Consellers, MPs, MPs, TV3 companies, Catalonia pioneered Spain on these issues, pioneered Spain in the development of an audiovisual regulation that ages for quality content and that holds as references to pluralism; public mediums of quality that were inclusive and guaranteed plurality. Thirty-three years we celebrate TV3 and Catalunya Radio, thirty years of the CAC, decades that have been building a system of public audiovisual media in Catalonia, with elements of guarantees for pluralism, for truthfulness, means that understand its mission to guarantee the right to information of the citizen; decades of building a whole set of regulations and modern audiovisual laws that are old for this quality, of a control body also in the appropriate audiovisual field, type that we have in other European countries; decades of building a national wide consensus, of a broad academic, professional and political consensus around these country audiovisual structures. Consensus that was also reflected in the Statute of Catalonia, in its article 52; consensus that the year 2012 Convergence and Union and the People's Party were fulminating – fulminating – with a law, 2/2012, a counter-reform of the various audiovisual laws, which at that time we have already warned, hurt those national consensuses and, therefore, hurt death and have very important consequences, harmful, both in the pluralism of our public audiovisual communication media, as in the survival of the same structure that can at European level guarantee the right to information and audiovisual motor of our country. It was a counter-reform that basically made the right, Convergence and Unity and the People's Party, have the majority in the corporate and CAC control bodies, basically did this, but its effect was to govern the CAC, to govern the corporate board and to make a direct transmission correction both in the information elements, and, therefore, to attack the information, political, social pluralism of the corporate contents, as also in reducing the number of Catalan public audiovisual media, obviously making this more part of the pasty to the Catalan private communication media. Renewed: It's the same thing they've done in these last four years with sanitation, with education, with teaching, right? , with water, with social services, well, but also with the state structure of public audiovisual communication media in Catalonia. Only four years, and in four years many of the things built, such as the gods of principle, in three decades of social, professional and political consensus. In these four years delegations and correspondents have been charged for the territory; they have eliminated and merged channels and broadcasters; they have reduced contracts and audiovisual productions, co-productions; 280 admissions; a 30_percent reduction in the purchasing power of workers; an attempt to externalize the commercial department of TV3, and, yes, they have touched and severely hurt the pluralism of public communication media in Catalonia. God doesn't – God doesn't – the effects of that 2012 counter-reform. Four years ago we told them we'd try to turn it back, then, and we've been working on it. Two years ago, as the deputy at the time of the initiative for Catalonia Verds - the United Left and Alternative, defended in this same chamber a proposal of law which sought primarily to re-elect the members of these governing bodies with vast majority and re-introduce into these governing bodies qualified majority to take the big decisions. Well, that's what Ciutadans' bill proposal, Ciutadans' bill proposal, and, obviously, consistently, we would support and support this bill. But just as I am saying this, I must also say to you with the utmost strength that they are very short – they are very short–; they are short and all respect that proposal which I now told you two years ago that I was already defending in this chamber, at that time, I also recognize that it was short, but that, in the band of those points that I have already commented, I also introduced that I would like to equate the rule not only with incompatibilities but also with the remuneration of the other categories of those governing bodies with the other categories of the Administration of Catalonia, of the Generality; I also introduced that I would like to guarantee the participation of the workers and workers in the approval of the contract not only by entering the staff body of the program. But, in addition, they are short because that proposal of the law, whatever we do not foresee, which we have achieved, has entered into this chamber. And there were a dozen appearances. And those appearances brought many more ideas and enrich the law's proposal, such as, for example, that we should better define the professional profiles that fall to us for these governing bodies; or that we should also talk about the need to introduce workers and workers into the management of the corporation from their maximum management bodies to make it more effective; or that we should also talk about the need for better transparency of these bodies; or that we need to strengthen the Contingent Adviser Council; or that we should introduce social criteria into contracts; or that we should also incorporate safeguards to maintain the protection of public audiovisual sources, or that we need to regulate the third area of communication. Well, all this is not in your proposal, nor just trying to reverse it, now that we are making a proposal to change audiovisual laws, to what you yourself have referred to, and that this has already been the past year, Convergence and Union has also changed in the law to measure for El Punt Televisión, to modify Law 22/2005 on which is the maximum percentage of production that can be made in chain by audiovisual providers. Okay. All this, we have an opportunity, when a proposal is made for a law in Parliament, to put it in the table. All this is at the proposition of law that Catalonia Yes, it is We can record the last 29 of February, seven days after today's debate, which was registered by Ciutadans. I'm telling you all this to get the hell out of our proposal? No, no, I'm telling you all this because it's hard for you to know that today we're not jointly dealing with all these issues, opening up the space for debate from the processing of laws on all these issues, and not just one, which is necessary, which is essential, which is to return to as much consensus as possible in the election of the governing bodies of the CAC and the corporation, but this is a small part of everything that needs to be done to reform the laws. As it goes, what they are proposing, obviously, at the proposal of the law of Ciutadans is a necessary debate; a debate that, as we say, is not new; a debate that in the last legislature was not able to end, because Convergence and Unity and the Republican Left have stopped the processing of that law in its posenance phase; a debate that can't wait – can't wait – for nine times in the country and a debate that is much more complex than that which points to the eight articles of this proposal of the law of Ciutadans. Like Catalonia Yes, it is, we will face this debate with all this complexity that I have explained to you in my intervention, bringing all these proposals that we place in our proposal of law and, if necessary, many more. Because our objective is to make it complete to what Article 52 of the Statute says in its full text, of Article 52, and, therefore, to veto the right to information of the citizenry, and, therefore, to put in place measures to guarantee public media of quality, plurals, leaders and strengths; a reflection of what is our society, a plural and complex society, of many people, of many gender identities, for example, that are not usually seen in our public media. Our goal is to guarantee the public service mission of our public media, to guarantee its political independence from the government, and also its independence from political parties. And to make it clear that, at times as fast and as difficult as they are today, it is when the social and political function of public communication means is more necessary than ever.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.140.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mrs. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.141.0	Thank you, President. You see... that the Government of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation – I think you will be with me – is not a top priority among the concerns of Catalan citizens, it is a reality. They won't find it at the CEO's; they won't find it, either, captivating the stream of concerns; they won't find it, in the family table, talking about it, not in a medical consultation, not in a public park. You're obvious. You know that, don't you? He's not part of the conversations, not just now, but he wasn't part of it before, and he won't do it later, if this bill comes forward and pulls forward. Now, while there's a lot of the Catalan citizenry that thinks that exactly what we're talking about is more of a policy debate and not of the citizenry, that's not true. And it's not true because it's obvious that public communication means are a public service, another, how education could be, how it could be sanitary, how it could be transport, social subjects... Public service, financed with public money and which must be met with criteria of representativeness, respect, pluralism, information, pedagogy... That's what you ask for in a public communication medium. And that, right now, doesn't work. This is the popular party's motivation to vote in favour of this bill. And we'll do this to see if we can analyze, with ponència, whether it is possible to improve from the change in the election of members of the Catalan Corporation Council, as well as the CAC, the situation in which the Catalan public audiovisual media is found, which is the reality of media that are absolutely instrumental for the Government, that they are object– object– necessary for continuous electoral propaganda by the Government of Junts for the Yes, which is moreover patenting an absolute political biax, practically without precedent. But, still, I think it's appropriate that we make the effort to put on the table determined reflections, that I think we could do all the political parties, lock in the government's. First of all, where do we come from, to find out where we're going? And now I explain to them what I'm referring to: now scarcely six years ago and twenty days ago, concretely on April 14, 2010, it was modified... – with the tripartite, Montilla President, Mr Tresserras was Councillor of Culture and Mitjans – it was modified article 7 of the Law of the Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. That, what I was saying, was that the members of the council and the ACC should be chosen, with qualified majority voting, just in the second vote, just what we are talking about here today. It is to say that it went from a system that was qualified majority to a system of absolute majority. So, six years ago. The reality is that at that time, surely this was done..., this modification of the second vote, is to say, when we don't agree here at the chamber, in accounts of making the two-thirds system work, we only do the absolute majority, because at that time it was argued that facilitating and lowering this majority would avoid blocking situations. And maybe that's it – and maybe that's it – and, in fact, it was argued, so, that's what was going on at that time, when Mr. Saez, then, gave up his job, right? And in its time, days before the announcement of the decree amending this Article 7 of the Law, it was designated or was already announced that Enric Marín would be designated as the substitute, right? That Enric Marín who supposedly had to have a wider profile, much more plural, much more, let's say, politically neutral, but in the end it was what he told us in a control committee – I wasn't there, but there were other companies, yes, Mr. Santi Rodríguez asked him – that it wouldn't be so hot or just say the cost of the Adéu report, Spain because that was confidential. And that was said in a report, obviously, that it was produced, paid and issued for one public, no more, no less. So I, Mrs Ribas, don't know what you're talking about, about decades' consent, because there hasn't been one, and this may be the problem: what makes the journalists' unions up there, the members of the business committee, therefore, have doubts about the seriousness of changing the majorities continuously, according to party conveniences. So, since 2012, it's true, the law is changed, other criteria apply. That is to say, there is a second vote, let's move on to an absolute majority and thus avoid the risks of col·lapse; the name of members is reduced to CAC, this is also done, and it has been seen that this has not, therefore, guaranteed the neutrality of audiovisual media. But, still, I ask the question, second question: do we have to rethink more things, more ambitious reptiles? Because the system of government choice is an instrument, and Mr.Mejias said: "It's one more step, but it has to go further. We need to redefine the model, we need to redefine the model of public media that we want and that can be maintained, both things. And how can neutrality, impartiality and pluralism guarantee systems be strengthened? It's a reflection we have to do and we have to do it if this proposal to pull it forward. But, too, we need to reflect on one thing: are there any more changes between the council of the ACC? We, from the People's Party, consider it. And we do this for the next question: that has not changed the Catalan political landscape? I think so. If we are aware that the Catalan political landscape has changed and if we are aware that the election system needs to be changed and that more needs to be done to ensure, therefore, that all political parties have a representation of the council or the ACC or of the desirability of fixing some majorities or others, we can guarantee that all the social sensitivities of Catalonia that are represented in this Parliament can participate in the audiovisual media. Always with elements, obviously, and with people who are part of the journalistic world, who have a prestigious reputation, who have a professional competence that doesn't have any – no less – to rebuild on the part of the groups, because it's evidence. But this is a reality, or so, here are political forces that are not represented among these governing organs, and it would be advisable to reflect, not who is left out, just as these organs reflect better on pluralism and the rich social and political sensibility that Catalonia has. Perhaps other criteria must be introduced that allow everyone to participate, and that can participate with members... – I repeat, which is very important – with members of recognized professional prestige and competence. I believe that these reflections are to be produced and if this leads you forward or not, because we have another one, already presented to the register and I believe that the terms of the statements have already expired..., we have done so. And what we do is not only because of political responsibility, but also because of the fact that the Catalan public communication media are not plural, they are not impartial, they do not guarantee the true, objective information, they do not respect only the social sensitivity and pluralism of Catalan society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.142.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.143.0	Well, thank you, President. In the first place, take advantage of this forum to show solidarity with the TV3 worker, in Gustau, to which the prosecutor asks for the bestiality of seven years of imprisonment on the grounds, precisely, of the direction of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, for some of which he does not deny the authorship, but that they have been totally surpassed by the events. Today the data for which this person is accused of having filtered, therefore, to a large extent, are public from the Law of Transparency. Let's replace the new corporate presidency and all members of the board to reposition this accusation, pass the page. [[applause]] And take advantage of this new stage opportunity with the workers. Precisely, the workers, the professionals of the radio and public television have been the ones who have rejected the counter-reform that was applied in 2012 in the Law of the Corporation, because they have been able to appoint a president only with the majority that I support the Government; the president's office is much more linked to the Sant Jaume square, let's say so, and a presidency has been appointed that has acted, on not a few occasions, in an authoritative way in the application, therefore, of the measures, in the application of the regulatory expedient, for example. With the reform, it is necessary to find consensus in Parliament to appoint the Presidency and the members of the Council. If it's the fourth power, if the communication media are the fourth power in our society, it can't be an extension of the execution. But the mechanisms for the election of the presidency, as pointed out in previous interventions, the mechanisms in the election of the presidency and the members of the council are not enough, they call for other measures to ensure that the radio and public television have a five-way strategy, that is to say, beyond the logic of government change, because there is certainly a contradiction between the interests of the directors, with the view laid down in the short term, in the hearing indexes, with the awareness of being step by step and keeping clear, for the fact that it is named, that its loyalty is also given to the government, there is, in our view, a contradiction between this point of view and that of the public being directed by the plant. Two elements in which this foundational look should be consolidated, beyond, therefore, of the reform in the mechanisms of choice of the direction, are, of a band, a new contract program that provides the corporation with a new stable premise, and second place, to ensure the social participation and workers in the organs of management of the corporation. Incorporating the collective intelligence of professionals working in the knowledge of the company. The co-management, which is discussed more and more every day, to which 70_percent of the staff has already voted in favour of it when it was consulted in respect. This will need to be put on the table in the reform of the law with the aim of equipping our media with an independent and professional direction, removed from the dependence of the different governments. And, to see, let us also understand, this strategic view, this defense of plurality and independence is not denied, nor much less, with the objectives of doing a nationally self-centered media that you see, of course, to a majority in our society such as the independence movement, because it comes out of the Catalan public media – and from that we will also talk about it tomorrow in the popular party's motion – it goes out, because in the matter of independence the plurality of the media of the corporation, if it can be better, is in the antipodes of the public media and deprived of space. One of the chains of the Atresmedia group, I remember, after many weeks of asking him that if he talked about Catalonia and the process given to independence decided to make a gesture and they invited to the tertulia Duran and Lleida ; fantatistic. I say this because I hear some of the interventions that preceded me from the feeling that it is intended to use public television and radio as a launch weapon and to accompany it from a global view of the public and private media that in Catalonia build opinion and influence politically. Finally – and I exhaust my intervention because I was convinced that it was five minutes and a half – I place the group proposing to accept the move made by the Socialist Party and Catalonia Yes, it is time to discuss together the different proposals for reform of the law of the corporation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.144.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Lord Jordi Cuminal, of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.145.0	Thank you, Madam President. Vice President, Councillor, Members, Members, Councillors, Representatives of the Professional Corporation Committees, we presented a statement to the whole of this bill, and I think it's good to start by making a reference to it, right? Why did we introduce her? So, Mr. Mejía, first place, for prevention, huh? When we see that Ciutadans pushes something with respect to the corporation, it's as if we know that a guinea pushes something to protect some chickens. Honest to you, this is our layout. And second place – and it's said, and I think it's worth insisting on it – because here there are three more proposals for proposed law to modify the laws of the corporation. And we thought it was interesting, if there really is this will to be able to make the changes that can improve, if this is the case, the legislation around the public media in our country, so it was worth making a single debate. And, therefore, the fact of proposing a proposal to the totality was to try to win that time and those processes in which different parliamentary groups we might agree to, in a debate alone, discuss the initial differences that may exist, that in this case, therefore, it seems to us that they are almost from all groups, in one way or another. It couldn't be; I think it's a shame – it couldn't be. So we'll do two or three or four debates, if we can't find a way to talk in a place we want to do with the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation. And why did I take it off – and why did I take it off –? So, because it must also be recognized, your proposal for it refers to a motion that pushed the Socialist Party in which we approved this. And, therefore, it is true that this has to do with a motion that the joint parliamentary groups approved. So, in this sense, it's as a result of what happened. But I also think that, honestly, we also have to say, because what I said and what bothered them so much – and it's hard for me, that's what I think – about guinea pigs and chickens, we're not the only group that thinks about it. And many of us have kept the puzzle in its entirety. But, at the time of truth, the totality items hold if voting is won; but in this chamber no one else was willing to give their face to say that they did not pull forward. And that's another reason why we've taken the whole thing away from us. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.146.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.147.0	And now that it's being processed – and now it's being processed – so I say, listen to me, when you say "return to 2007, we've already told the young man, we voted for it, we don't have any problems," then I'll talk about it. In the rest of the innovations that you incorporate, we won't have to talk because, so, from the start, there's no more agreement. And I could leave it here, but then, think, let's go to the bottom of the question: why do you serve these debates about the corporation? And why don't we want to unify the debates into one? So, because they're used to stuff them. Because there has been a lot of talk here about modeling and talking about lack of plurality, the process, a whole series of things going on throughout the legislature. Because of the will to fix it according to what – according to what – there is no mass, but the will to blow and jam, there is very much. And that's the point of the question. I'll only answer a couple of things, but, Mr. David Pérez, if we're talking about the Tresserras law, we should also talk about the decree I don't know if Tresserras or tripartite, because the later law, the modification of the law, as Mrs. Esperanza García said, simply posed a condition of the law to what had already been changed by whom you said that you had made such a good law. So we're going back to what was there? We'll go back to what was already there. If we ask freedom and plurality we don't drink what a third party says, because if we talk about press freedom, press freedom must consist of something, not going here bring everything that is said that we don't like, because we all happen to say things about our parties that we don't like. But this is not the background, this is not the background of the debate – this is not the background of the debate. Only one point, Mr. David Mejía. In the motion we voted for, the first point was that the contract program, when there was a presupposition. And you said today that this was impossible. So, less than one month ago they voted for it, so why did you hear it, huh? Therefore, parts of his intervention are not entirely coherent. And not to exhaust all the time, Mrs. Esperanza García – which I don't see, in any case, Mr. Millo –, all the lessons the Popular Party has given us, when Spanish Television in Catalonia applied them, trick us, eh? The plurality of views, respect for language, quality, etc. Plus, you... that the former communications director of the Catalonia People's Party runs it, listen, and talk more about it: when you complete all this on Spanish Television in Catalonia, that it's also a public service and we pay it all, let us know, huh? Because, for the time being – for the time being – we didn't find that out. And not to go into their provocations – not to go into their provocations – simply to say that in life when you find it, then, more than looking for problems, you can find opportunities. And, then, I have this discussion that we have now about the corporation, so I'll take it as an opportunity; let's analyze the assumption – late, Mrs. Garcia, I've already talked about you and it wasn't, you know, hard – let's analyze the underlying assumption: why this fixation? Why does this insistence very poorly on constantly talking about this and criticizing the prestige of Catalonia's professionals and radio and public television? So, I think it's not by bad faith, no. I've come to this conclusion, and I've thought about it for a while, huh? And I think it's because there's something you didn't understand. And how they don't understand it they insisted on finding a solution, but they didn't understand one thing: and it's that the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, TV3 and Catalunya Radio, are national media; not national media, national media. But since you don't accept a reality, that Catalonia is a nation, you don't understand that corporate media is national media. And they don't understand it by lack of capacity, because it's a very simple thing and you have a lot; they don't understand it by your cosmos: they don't accept a reality that Catalonia is a nation and therefore they don't understand that public media of a nation act as nationals. They insisted until the point – I'm not the one to judge it, but – almost until the point of getting enough nightmares, but, well, I understand that this is already his problem. So you don't understand, and now I'm going to explain to you what it's like? So, no. And not out of patience, but because I don't think they're willing to try to hear it, until their leader less than a year ago asked that TV3 is closed. It denotes a predisposition in this very clear debate and, therefore, as you are not willing to hear it, I will take advantage of the occasion to return to the basics, because it has changed Catalonia's composition – it has changed – and now there are more games that often occur according to what the corporation says, and by repetition we can find that someone is lost or that even someone is taking a hint of complexity that I think they are not good people. Catalonia's national media was created unanimously by this Parliament in 83 to be national, to represent self-government and to defend language, just for which some parties were precisely created, to go against it; for quality and prestige, just for which some parties were founded, to fight it; for being national– and not nationalist–, just for which some parties were formed, to fight it. Parliament's task is very clear. We said, "We are going to get along, so we are going to the origin: unanimous in this chamber. The task is very clear: promotion of the català, public service quality and engine of the industry. What are you telling us now? What do the indexes tell us? What do the inquiries tell us? That our offer is plural, it's quality and it's in Catalan. That we are reference, that we are leaders and that is well valued for the spectators. The president of the CAC gave the appearance: there is no European company more audited than the corporation, and there are hardly any more pluralities than the results that give the results of the corporation. Giving the speech on one side of this chamber of concern for the safety of the corporation is ascribed hypocrisy. The corporation – TV3 and Catalonia Radio – does not deserve to attack its prestige; it is unique to all Catalans and all Catalans, and if it has to be plural, it has to be plural, precisely because it is national. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.148.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. As there are no items in totality and the debate is over, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Interview with the Government on occupational health policies]] [[300-00040/11]] And now we move to the next point of the order of the day. Let's move on to the new item of the order of the day because this morning we voted in favour of this alteration of the order of the day, so that we are now making the new item of the order of the day, which is: inquiry to the Government on the policies of labor salvation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, Mr. Marc Vidal has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.149.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillors, MPs, MPs, last week, on the 28th, we celebrated the International Day of Safety and Health at Work, which instituted the UN. One of the themes was extremes, and it seemed to us that maybe today was a good time to talk about these themes again, the themes of occupational safety. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.150.0	Please, ask them if they have to go out in silence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.151.0	And remember that in the month of October he will make twenty-one years of approval of the Law of Prevention of Occupational Risks of this country, a good law in its moment, which is still there, many misuses, of this law, few compliments and very little demand in all that he establishes; a law designed to solve the endemic uses of the labor force in a country that had grown under the shadow of the dictatorship, that generated obligations to the entrepreneurs and the workers to guarantee, precisely, that it can work without losing salvation and that it gave instruments to the governments to control it. Spain was a country, at that time, at 95, where the bank had more left-handedness than the mining in Sweden. Today, twenty years later, the Spanish bank is still more left-handed than Swedish mining. Something must have done badly, surely, too, to Catalonia. We are witnessing, in Catalonia, an alarming increase in the number of companies left alone, as is the case with data from the Business and Occupational Accidents Register of the past two years. If we look at the period April 2014-March 2015, there were a total of 78,217 occupational accidents, 60 of which were fatal; from March 2015 to March 2016 there were 82,869, of which 536 were heavy, 65 were fatal. The employment situation in Catalonia has increased, therefore, more than 18_per_cent in these two later years. The province of Girona, from which you are well acquainted, takes the palm as to percentages: in these two later years we arrive almost at the 30_per_cent increase. All this with regard to security, which is where we dedicate the largest share of the migratory efforts in prevention. But if we have poor results in safety, we have worse results in prevention of salvation. The basis of prevention is the observation and analysis of the facts, when there is a damage, in order to be able to act on the place of work to prevent this, precisely, causing the disease. This is due to the delimitation of what we call professional malalities, or, better said, the delimitation of the negative effects that a certain place of work has on the salvation of workers and workers, and on the attribution as a professional cause when there is a contingency of salvation. That is to say, if we know the professional malalities, we act on the causes, modifying and adapting the work places, and the workers have more guarantees in their treatment and more coverage of the consequences of the malalty. In fact, that's why they created the prevention services, that's why there are work safety units and that's why they cover the mutuals. The statement of maladies as professional has gone from 7,525 cases/year as average since the law was declared until 2005, to 3,316 later statements. What happened in 2005? So, casually– casually, huh? – it is when the competitions of temporary and permanent disability are transferred to the mutuals. It's just a circumstance, only a factor, but in practice, which ends up deciding whether a damage has a professional cause or not, it's who should have to pay in case it was. Therefore, if it is not diagnosed as a professional malalty, the treatment is due to public health and not to mutual health: 2,000_million euros a year in Catalonia, as acknowledged by the Councillor of Salut in the past plenary. We'd have to do something, Counselor. And what is even worse: no incidence on the causes of the malalties; therefore, no adaptation of the companies of their places of work, and therefore more prevalence of a large number of malalties. And some may have the tempt to say: "Of course, state legislation on mutuals, which needs to be changed. We agree that it has to be modified, but they do not intend to escape from the scandal, which I would say in Puyal. No, because the declaration or not of occupational diseases has great differences between autonomous communities, especially because there are some systems of coordination and notification of occupational diseases, which are in some places and not in others. For example, Catalonia leads the absolute number of communications of professional maladies; but, in change, when we look at the normal index of incidence – it is to say, in relation to the name of working people – it is in the eleven place. What's going on? So, because there are communities, like, for example, València, that have begun policies aimed at solving the difficult problem of underreporting; or, for example, Navarre, with the health alert program. And here, in Catalonia, comes into play, I suppose you remember, the unilateral decision of the council of the ineffable Mr. Boi Ruiz, which allowed us to pass back, which we already had, eliminating Instruction 1/2007, which activated an internal system of suspicion of professional malalty that could restitute poorly catalogued processes from the professionals of primary care. Now in Catalonia we have no incentive mechanism for statements of professional malalties, beyond those that are catalogued. Consequence: the collective prevention and intervention on working conditions to zero, leaving the burden of causes on the ill individual; economic repercussions for public health, which is higher than 21.7_percent of the country's total health assumption, than 2,000_million euros; labor repercussions on the different rights of a worker in one case or another; repercussions on who is concerned with healthcare coverage; repercussions on the degree of responsibility of the enterprise for the development of pathology and the management of occupational risks; in short, a scandal, madam will advise. There is an interesting study, presented a few days ago by the Commissions Obreres, based on a series of methodologies that presents estimates that are telling, because the estimate of the incidence of the disease related to the job in Catalonia in 2015 is estimated in 13,800 cases, 3,300 statements, an understatement of 76_percent of cases. And it highlights, for example, the case of the estimated occupational malignant tumors: 903, when the communication as the professional malalty of these cases was one. The estimate of the prevalence of occupational diseases, is to say, the cases that exist continuously, is considered to be of the 1_million_i_mig of people in 2015. A million people in 2015 are patenting diseases related to work. In Catalonia, work embalts people. The estimate of mortality, if we take into account that the ILO and WHO attribute to work between 5 and 7_percent of deaths to industrialised countries, and reviewing the Idescat, the incidence, in 2013– 2013, I could not sleep more –, this study concludes with an estimate that places 10.8_percent of deaths that were produced in Catalonia that year..., its cause may be related to work. And here we need to make a reflection, an important reflection, because most of the dead who have the origin in the work are serious avoidable if everyone was diligent, detecting the causes, and everyone was diligent by incorporating the preventions or changing the working conditions. These alarming figures come to confirm a perception, that we already had many delegates and prevention delegates, that is the lack of integration of health risk prevention into the management of our businesses. And, in fact, the data of the former Department of Enterprise and Occupation, which collected as was the practice of prevention in 2014: 144,314 people, the 6.4_per_cent of the workers of Catalonia, work in enterprises that do not have a preventive organizational capacity. This means that 24.5_percent of Catalonian entrepreneurs do not prevent, 24.5_percent of Catalonians do not comply with the legal obligation established 20 years ago. And, of those who do prevention, more than 70_per_cent contract alien prevention services. Do you know what the medium of dedication is for companies and years of these external services? 6,88 hours face-to-face, "huge the possibility of dedication to prevention. In about 40_percent of the country's businesses there is no trained worker with respect to risk. Only a 1.1_per_cent of companies have evaluated the four types of risk in a specific way. And here we have one of the problems, because it's only 2.9_percent of companies that assess psychosocial risks. In summary and to finish – in any case, we will continue later – there are three aspects detected and known about which we need to act of urgency and which I would like you to talk to me about. The first: there is a resumé about work accidents, which consolidates a cycle shift and alerts the prevention fracs. The second: it diminishes the declaration of professional malalities, consolidating the phenomenon of under-declaration. And the third: the failure of companies' obligations when a quarter of our companies does not make any kind of prevention. Then I will also talk to him about proposals that, in our opinion, we should do to be able to work, no more or less, than like Swedish miners: sure. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.152.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.153.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President; thank you, MP, and a greeting to the archival students I found at the pass. I'm lucky we don't have any miners here, but I'd go a lot better than we have the strength to be safe with Sweden. You're right, Mr. Congressman, the labor left-handedness is very high in Catalonia, as it's very high in the rest of the State and it's very high in many European countries as well. And we have to bring it down a lot. And to bring it down very much, it means that we need safe work and stable work. And so I said in my first appearance. All the numbers you have donated, or most of the numbers you have donated, are on the Workers' Committees report that you yourself have mentioned and that your colleague, Mrs Marta Ribas, mentioned on the 20th of April of this same year that explained the reason for the explanation of professional maladies where we also said that 76 percent of cases of professional maladies were not recognizable and the Health Department said that the data were 70. So, one more degree less, you're right that it's very exaggerated, and so we need to cool down. I explained it and today I like to be able to talk about what we need. What we need is a safe job and we'll be here. In the department of work we have clear objectives. The first objective we have already explained, is the Catalan strategic safety and health mark, which was done..., it's 2015-2020; it's part of a constant social dialogue and it's part of a social dialogue that was done the past year and that was talked to all social workers, with employers, with the people of the department, with companies, even great businesses and small businesses, and in the Labour Relations Council above all, where there is a follow-up commission for security and safety issues on the job. And we're continuing this very week, in fact, we've come back to gather the Labour Relations Council that until now has not been able to meet and that we've now met, and that's already next week or the other – I don't remember when it's exactly – there's the committee here to assess what's been done this time. So, it's starting from an analysis to agree on a number of phone lines and what they require is, as you said, safety and health actions. We are deploying the third plan of government 2015-2020. And also to move forward – which I think you already know – we will execute the third Catalan Job Conditional Survey that is essential to be able to evaluate and value everything that has been done so far. A campaign has been launched in the march of this administration to reduce industrial accidents in businesses, and this is now; above all, those businesses that, for the index we have of the past year, have had high left-handedness. In the first place, Isha sent a letter. You will say to me: "Home, one card and enough? It is a letter of warning, it is a letter of request of the compliment of the preventive measures; therefore, we have sent 1,850 cards to the 1,850 companies that have had the most accidents in the year 2014. But we sent it from the Labour Inspectorate, but, as I announced in my previous intervention, what we did was strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, strengthen it with qualified technicians – precisely, security-enabled technicians and job safety – that they can follow all these cards that have reached the companies, but not card tracking, but from the firm in practice, to see what measures they implement and what they do more. Also, from this year's inspection, thirteen thousand visits are planned in the area of safety and health. We have made a list of companies, but targeted by sectors, and, above all, targeted by sectors of higher peril. There are 102 inspectors, therefore, and 33 technicians who will be able to complete this intervention, even if it would be necessary to double the number to go well, but here is what we have and with this work. The reason is two very clear: for one gang, reducing the number of accidents, and for the other, we are convinced that a vigilance and a prevention in the work benefits the salvation of the working people. It should also be noted that this protection of workers and workers has been linked to the prevention of damage, but above all, to corporate responsibility. And here we also work, as I said before, in this Committee on Safety and Health at Work, carrying initiatives and materializing ideas that we carry in the plan and, above all, modulating preventive action, which is what suits us, with expert advice because the prevention service is as diligent as possible. As you know, the role of the Administration is based on the promotion and impulse of preventive activity, but, as you said, twenty years of the law..., a law that says that prevention is done by business and workers by means of their representation, by delegates and delegates. You were talking about 24 percent of people who didn't get this training. The same report you have made explains that, of all delegates and delegates, more than 80_per_cent say they have rejected the formation, but what costs is getting to the workers. Therefore, here too there is a work on the part of the trade union that, according to what we will do together in this committee, we will give more tools to get to the workers by means of these delegates they have, and business committees. But we also have to think that Catalonia is a small and medium-sized country where there are neither delegates nor delegates nor business committees. That is why the impulse that we do or do from the Labour Inspectorate is in this area of many visits, which, more than the sectors of great peril, is to go to small businesses; to small businesses where their prevention plan does not follow, how it has been going back or how it has sometimes been in equal plans, a plan in the cove without which it is needed. Therefore, here the compromise is clear. We will do this by putting together the actions of the Institute of Safety and Health at Work, together with the inspection, because what we want to do is to unify it, because we believe that prevention is important and that it must be paramount, but we need to move from prevention to fact, and we don't have enough of it with study, that it was the ones that have been done since the institute, but more than the studies, we want to have an appeal to the territory, that we go to the work center per work center, and in this we believe that so much as inspectors can go along with qualified technicians and make this prevention on the spot and not just from the outposts of the institute. We've already put that in the way. The institute's workers are not happy, they want to do this job. They tell us that for the first time they're going to go to territories, that they've always been studying and doing it, and that they're mentoring them and giving them courage to pull them forward. Consolidate the best recorded data of work accidents, the analysis and the information we generate; consolidate the knowledge of preventive activities; consolidate the tasks of knowledge generation, which makes the true causes of work accidents and analytics follow; therefore, update the information on the conditions of occupation and the work of the occupied population, but above all identify, not the work centres, but also those collections and whose activities are to intensify the activity and decide the most appropriate strategy. As I said before, the Labour Relations Council works there and will work hard, and always in this strategic catal mark 2015-2020. The action addressed to these enterprises with the index of high left-handedness, or so, high left-handedness, which is where the major part of the problem of left-handedness is concentrated, but complementaryly also with a systematic investigation of the causes and responsibilities where there are heavy, very heavy, deadly or significantly light work accidents, which is what is happening. What it is about, therefore, is to improve the performances, to improve..., to go in situ and to go to territories, and that all vaginas directed to enhance this better working conditions and preventive activities, which I am sure we all agree. Therefore, I agree with your diagnosis and I agree with the situation we have. We want safe miners; we want safe bankers or bankers; we want safe teachers and we want all the workers in our country with the minimum number of psychosocial factors that also involve a derivative of disease and that do not follow a safe job, a firm job and, above all, a job in which salvation is above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.154.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.155.0	Yes, thank you, President. He'll advise, I'm delighted with his intervention, because before I ask him, I suppose that as a result of what I'm asking him now, you've already told me he'll do some of the things. I won't ask for any more. In fact, I would not just like to believe it, but that, as you are the labor authority, all these initiatives that you have explained that you will be putting on the march, in a while you will have to be able to explain to them how well there may be. And yes, one of the questions I wanted to say is that we have instruments, not just the law famous for twenty-one years ago, but this strategic Mark of security and salvation, to which you have referred, 2015-2020, and which, as a result, you have made a plan for government. There was already a plan of government begun, but it is clear that every time we are in a fantasy country, the contrast between this planning that has been agreed between entrepreneurs, workers and workers, Government, and the reality that we have just described a moment ago, allows us to come to the conclusion that we are very little and that what we do not believe enough, as at least to make an act of faith; until now we have not believed enough. I hope that, with the act of faith, from then on we can believe it. Therefore, the first thing I ask is that I commit to what you have said is to give an urgent impetus to the deployment of some of the measures already contemplated in this strategic framework that allow us to face up to the left-handedness. We have many measures to push forward and that can agree with social workers and make the negotiation worthwhile. Therefore, this is a firm compromise that I hope I have no problem accepting. But, more than just the doughnut, there's got to be a stick if we want the donkey to walk. And here you told me about some cards and you told me about the 13,800 visits. All right, all right, all right, all right, all We have a very clear control of the mechanisms envisaged by the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks with a specific program of the Labour Inspectorate within its planned activity, these 13,800 visits, to ensure that the prevention measures are actually applied to companies before the damages of professional origin. And what else could we do, for example? So, to verify that preventive activity can be improved to identify more and better the occupational risks avoiding exposure of people to their work places, intensifying the prevention of origin, making it with mechanisms of consultation of prevention delegates, to verify if this works. It would be good for prevention services to communicate without suspicions of professional damage, because at present it is a function that recognizes the law but it is not sufficiently developed by companies. And it would be a good thing for the safety and health committees or the meetings with the entrepreneur to agree to a pre-suspended performance procedure. That, the inspectors could push it. It would also enhance, for example, work health units as referents to treat, diagnose, follow up on research and preventive intervention on work conditions prior to identified work damage; or, for example, support primary care and health surveillance units, both of preventative services similar to aliens, such as workers' representatives. I would like to develop specific programmes of action against certain diseases that, if we take advantage of the statistics, there are some that have been detected a very high incidence, or those of what we say a moment ago that there is an alarming indeclaration, because in the area of prevention in origin we still have many actions to carry out. There are new illnesses that are also the fruit of this 2 and fall per cent of the psychosocial risk assessment, which go beyond the risks related to safety. And of course, you didn't tell me anything about the 2,000-million that pays for public health when they're supposed to be professional contingencies. I know he'll say to me, "Oh, that's the thing about the health counselor. Miri, I don't know, it's the same. I'm asking the government; you'll get along with each other, I suppose. Miri, it would be good if it were the mutuals who intervened in the first instance when there was damage, because they could be concerned with health care, notify the damage and be the ones who had to prove that it is not a professional damage, if they believe that it is not, with a report, with evidence, with arguments, before they derive it to the public system. In fact, Article 3 of Royal Decree 624/2014 says this; therefore, it is basically to make the law complete and not the other way around, as it happens now, that it is the evil that must be able to prove that it is professional malalty in order to have more coverage. It would be a good thing for the health authority to draw up a follow-up of this public health expenditure in order to be able to require the mutuals to take care of everything they have to do with the working conditions with regard to the quotas that enter the companies for the coverage of occupational contingencies. And in order to be sure, and I'm finished, I'd like to put on the march from the health field – you will already explain it to the counselor – as we already had, a system of alerts from primary care as initially measured with a procedure of declaration before the suspicion of professional contingency that was agile, that you avoided the judicialization of each case and that you gave the professional resources and training enough to last. Finally, from the government, I think that it would be better if, in the framework of the social dialogue, something more generic than a pact; a Catalan pact to face these risks of natural work and to stimulate the register of malalty related to the unrecognized work. You see that we have a lot – a lot –, a lot of work to do, we have to do it together, but above all the Government of the Generality, which has the authority to do so, should be the one that should be more and better captivated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.156.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.157.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, I'm going to have to explain everything to the Health Councilman, so I'm sure we'll agree, because there's no problem, and there's one of the things he said he's right, that he's going to do it and that we're going to throw them away. Just to say that the functions that we have from the Department of Work assume them fully, therefore, it is our responsibility to control safety and health – I said "control, I did not say that it was safety and health – and so we will do. Tell him that since the Labour Department we've pulled forward... we'll pull forward, go, this third floor of government we've been talking about, and in this brand we're working on is three great lines. One, with control of working material conditions. It is true that many years ago, and we have to give it once, because we also have to check the conditions of safety, but also the environment and ergonomics, which are only looked at by big companies. So, here we go. They will be campaigning in the construction sector, in fact it is one of the great lines carried by the Labour Inspectorate; specific actions on asbestos and some chemical products, which has also been found to be where there are more accidents, dangerous machinery, mobile work teams, water purifiers; a campaign on the risks of cancer agents, biologic agents; especially sensitive workers; upset skeletal muscles, and also inspect and secure them. Secondly, apart from the control of these conditions of material, there will be control of the management of prevention; as I said, doing the survey of working conditions also brings that there is much more control and that we can advance having a diagnosis clearly every time together. And third, the investigation of work accidents and occupational illnesses, which was what we already had. In fact, it is true that it has increased the sinisterity, it is true that it is too much that there is, but it is also true that from the year 2012 to this year it has dropped. The year 2012, of heavy accidents, we were at 22.87_per_cent; now we are arriving at 20, or 20, we could say, if we count 2016 or the end of 2015. It's very little; really, it's not like you're down, but it's not like you're down. What's changed is where there's left-handedness. And this is where we have to work. It is not going to work the same way that it has done so far, and that is why I have explained very well that in the Committee on Safety and Health of the Labour Relations Council we are carrying, precisely, this management, together with the social and economic agents, to see exactly where we need to put more incidence during this time, during this legislature, which, although it is short, must be firm and must be in order to have the basis for Catalonia to be a safe country and a country without accidents. I recall all the proposals you have made to us, and I would say it directly to Catalonia Yes, I may have no doubt that we will work hard on this subject, that it will not be the faith that will guide us, but that it will be the facts. And the facts are that last week, on May 1, thirty-three qualified technicians have already passed to the Labour Inspectorate and are already beginning to do their work out of the field and going to territories so that the left-handedness is as low as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.158.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on child and adolescent care policies]] [[300-00042/11]] The aim of the agenda is: to ask the Government about policies for the care of children and adolescents, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Ms. Laura Vílchez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.159.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members..., to greet also – I don't know if they are here – Mr Calvo, Mrs Russiñol, the directors of DGAIA and the Catalan Institute of Adoption and Reception. This is an inquiry that we would have liked not to have to do. Today we are bringing to the full an issue that should not be on the agenda, and it is the worrying situation of the child protection system in Catalonia. Because to our parliamentary group what we would like most – and I am sure we agree with the rest of the groups – would be that in the matter of children our work would be limited to sending greeting cards to the department. Unfortunately, today does not allow us to be so optimistic, and although neither this inquiry nor the motion that will follow it will be sufficient, we will try through various parliamentary initiatives to ensure that children do not fall short of the political agenda and will follow closely what can be agreed upon. In recent weeks we have seen the worst face of our child protection system in the media. Thus, we have seen videos that show a situation of obvious ill-treatment, we are seeing how reports of harassment of minors in educational institutions proliferate, we have seen how the Generalitat manifested ignorance of how many children under guardianship are escaped from the centres where they reside and ensure that it learns of the cases by the press, as in the case of the children in the queue. Counselor, what's going on? As long as there is no report that says otherwise, your department in the field of childhood will have to enter into a dynamic of control and continuous improvement of its efficiency. We find it unacceptable that the Sindico de Greuges, year after year, can continue to produce monographic reports, reports of its own motion, or that it can denounce the situation in which many minors are being protected in the report of shame, which is nothing other than that of the prevention of torture. Counselor, when are you going to leave the childhood department to give the syndic a job? I refer you to the syndic for what you consider to be a reliable and objective opinion. In his appearance in the Committee on Social Affairs he gave us a very generic brushstroke; generic were also the proposals explained to us by the DGAIA and the ICAA in committee, and we came to ask for concrete results. Commissioner, what concrete steps have you taken to improve the child protection system in an integral way? For our group, the regulation of Law 14/2010 on the rights of children and adolescents is absolutely essential and priority, because six years later it is unable to develop a law that was adopted in the spirit of guaranteeing the rights and opportunities of children and adolescents. What are your plans in this regard? Investment in children is also a priority for us. That is why our parliamentary group was able to adopt unanimously in committee the increase in the budget allocated to children's policies in order to reach the European average, which is 2,2_per_cent of GDP, and to which Catalonia currently allocates only 0,9_per_cent. Have you already decided on what items and with what timetable this increase will be carried out? We believe that child poverty and situations of risk and helplessness should be a priority for this increase. Neither I nor my group doubted his or his department's will to seek improvements to the system, nor would we have doubted the will of the councillor who preceded him, but what we can assure you is that the protection system still has great shortcomings in the before, during and after the possible application of a protective measure to a minor. If we talk earlier about policies for the prevention and application of detection protocols, remember that today two months ago a motion was adopted in this plenary to seek improvements, to improve protocols for detection and intervention in cases of child abuse and abuse. What steps have been taken in these two months to carry out or comply with that motion? As of April, 6,955 children protected in Catalonia by the Administration represent 6,955 outstanding subjects. Mrs Conseller, do we suspend in prevention, what concrete measures has the department promoted to help families develop their functions as parents? We must provide sufficient resources for child and adolescent care teams to be able to carry out their functions rigorously and efficiently, and we cannot have precisely collapsed teams that must respond agilely and effectively to situations of risk or helplessness. The sad thing about this is that the syndic has been making these recommendations for some time now; but the sad thing is that it's been doing that for over ten years, and we can say that little or nothing has progressed to date. For the duration it is essential that the DGAIA understands its role; it has to be empathetic, and, if it finally decides to stay with the guardianship of these children, it has to act as guardian and it has to ensure that children who have been separated from their families, for whatever reasons, feel cared for, heard, important to someone. You cannot look for a kangaroo for everything, there are functions that cannot be delegated, and in case you do, the tutor must explain the rules of the house, demand responsibilities, control and follow-up. When cases such as Alba's or Castelldans' case come to light, among others, we observe that it comes out with press conferences, announcing sophisticated tools that either are not carried out at the end or they tear down the effectiveness of the system on a bureaucratic basis. On the other hand there is a « lucky, in quotes: 14_per_cent of the foster children who have had the opportunity to live in foster families. From here, in considering them a scarce good, we want to ask you, Madam Counsellor, for these families a red carpet. From Ciutadans we want to make an effort to significantly increase the recourse of foster families, because, unless you show me otherwise, we have come to the conclusion that it is the Administration itself that is torturing the day-to-day recourse of these families and, therefore, that this recourse arises. Why are the time limits for each protective measure not being met? Why do emergency families become simple and simple, permanent? Not to mention the stays of foster children in the centres. We agree with the spirit of Act No. 14/2010 to enhance measures, to give importance to the biological link of children with their families of origin, but we ask you to reign once and for all in common sense. Because it cannot be, for example, that the visiting calendars are established without taking into account the working hours of the host families or the school hours of the minors themselves. We note that families are not united; both extended and foreign and biological families have little room to show their disagreement with the decision of the Administration. You will see that in the subsequent motion we will ask for support measures so that we do not have to see how there are teenagers who return to the system because of a model that fails, according to the data that their own department provided us. And, finally, the after: the extolled young people who leave the protection system with a heavy backpack and for whom the Generalitat does not have a straight path to indicate to them. Many entities denounce the great difficulty with which these young people find themselves in emancipating themselves. And we know that there are programmes, but maybe this is a good time to evaluate the results and maybe rethink them. Count on our collaboration to achieve that. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.160.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, answer Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.161.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. In fact, you, in this inquiry, have touched upon many different issues, and therefore, I do not know if I can answer them exactly at all. The department degenerate some days ago the strategic lines in a commission in matter of childhood and adolescence, to the Commission of Childhood... Agraexo that accompany me, from the department, the director Ricardo Calvo and the director of the ICAA, Mrs Agnès Russiñol, together with Nil and the Gregori, all of the department, and, therefore, are alert to everything we give each other so that, if we leave anything, we can, you, speak to it directly and so that we can answer one for one of their concerns and their ideas. We are firmly committed to aligning the strategies of the three sides – DGAIA, ICAA and the Directorate General of Families – and being able to go beyond what the protection and risk system is. We believe that they are totally separated is not in favour of the boys and boys we have, nor of the wards, nor of those we have in foster care, nor of adoptions; therefore, only integrating childhood and adolescence policies can we advance to improve priorities. And, therefore, the priorities of the Government, at these times, are to ensure that our infants can grow up developing their vital project with guarantees, and with guarantees are: guarantees of security, but also guarantees of a family environment, a welcoming environment and a environment in which they feel good. The future of a child is decided from the first childhood. And of that, we are firmly defenders. And, therefore, we believe that it is in these first stages that we must be on the rise. And that is why this integration of the three common strategic parts that, as I gave to the principle, will enable us to advance in ambitious childhood policies; to give and bring to the benefit, as I gave to the principle, to children and to adolescents, but also to their families, those who have families. These policies we want to develop, we think they are a social reversal. So now I won't talk about money, but then we can talk about the assumption that we have invested in each of the parts, which I can explain very well. The objectives of this social inclusion, of this opportunity and of childhood and youth policies are three: to promote the promotion, participation and guarantee of the rights through the development of the Comprehensive Plan of Childhood. Or we're working to get the kids and the teens, and, to put it that way, this weekend we had an example where the National Council of Childhood and Adolescents was gathered in the general assembly, which did not happen for a long time, and so we went ahead, and those who participated in it were able to enjoy it, and those who didn't, we saw the photos, which did a lot of joy..., and that's fine. This is the grip of infants and this is the grip of our young. Second, to improve the existing protection system by mitching changes in the model of socio-educational intervention, focused above all on that child at risk. We want to put these intervention models at the disposal of all the basic areas of the social services, through the program contract, which, as you know, the program contract with the joints we have to sign now. We've just collected the files that they're interested in. So, this year there's the file on infants, because we thought it was to be taken to the territory and that it was to go beyond the big cities or places where we had space to do it. And third, also, through a specific line in the matter of child abuse and abuse. We talked... you talked about the teaching protocol and social afers. To be able to tell him that he is already finished, that he has already passed through the two cabinets, also, of the lawyers, that obviously they have to give the last visit, and we are about to sign it. We at the committee said that April 29 would be over; so, at these times, I can assure you that it is over, and we need to find the date for Councilwoman Meritxell and I can explain them and present them as it was, huh? But what I can tell you is that the two departments have worked side by side, giving us the hand and sure that it will have good results. The fourth – said these three objectives, and the fourth, I miss another one –, which was to enhance the family reunion as a basic resource. We've already announced this, and we've announced this since the beginning of the legislature, that what we don't want is for a six-year-old to be in a center. And, therefore, everyone here has to enjoy a family environment and, therefore, here we have been asked to: adapt the adoption mechanisms and, in general, the adoption policy. You were talking to me about Law 14/2010. So, we're working on the deployment of this law. You know, it was approved at the end of the past... of the ninth term, it started to unfold the past, and now what I can tell you is that we're working in four decrees. At these times we are working on the decree to regulate the procedure and measures for the protection of children and adolescents at risk or in self-employment or protective custody; in a _second decree, for the regulation of temporary states of foreign children; a third decree, for the transition of adult life and personal autonomy, and a _fourth decree amending the Observatory of Children's Rights. We're also working on regulatory development. The measures to support emancipation and the majority of the age group, which carries articles 146, 151 and 152, technical equipment, general prevention and public protection, relating to child abuse. We are also working in order to advertise the brand program for DGAIA residential centers. And in the development of the Children's Pact we have already established the six axes of work: social participation of children and, with whom I gave them, the council and the assembly, last week; inclusion of quality of life, or so, which is equal opportunity; attention to childhood in salvation; attention to childhood in education and values; attention to childhood in families, and communication media, as they have to talk about children and young people. In general, comprehensive and cross-cutting policies of childhood and adolescence. However, in addition, we already have separate working groups that develop into different axes, let me say something: the programme for the promotion and exercise of the right of children and adolescents, the map of services and resources from zero to six years, the basic necessities of healthy food, the integral attention to childhood and adolescence at risk of exclusion, legal guarantees and rights, the temporary states of children and adolescents in families, the implementation of the RUMI, mental health and addictions, the attention to violence, the attention to values of young people's forms, which you have also spoken about, the children and adolescents who are involved in the development of their children and adolescents, and other groups who are involved in the implementation of the same legislation, in the context of the other groups of adolescents, and in the context of the implementation of the other groups of adolescents. He also spoke to us about the host families. I could tell you where we are. Gathering is the measure of protection that children benefit most, and that is very clear. Therefore, the combination measures take precedence over those involving the internation of infants in the centres. At these times we need more families, we are making the disclosure. You were talking about the 612 families that are hosting a child in Catalonia and the 1,000 children they have been hosting. We have decided to prioritise this issue in a decisive way and I can announce that on June 11th we will make the day"We are very close to each other, according to the families and associations of foster families, where all the agents involved in the gathering will participate. June 11th would be this day, June 17th will be a second day and, in the end, the process..., at the end of late, we would have the engine group that will write all the final conclusions. Therefore, I could also talk about adoption and then, if this is the case, I will talk about the case of minor inhalants, which has been a reference that you have made and that I would also like to be able to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.162.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.163.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, starting from the basis that we give for good intentions in terms of childhood, has to understand that we show our reluctance, because we are accustomed to virtual policies: plans, covenants, committees..., and nothing ends up materializing and nothing ends up being effective. In fact, that is why we are here denouncing that we are not responding to very, very basic needs. And worst of all, it doesn't affect you or me, it affects thousands of lives of very vulnerable people who need this system to work. As for the participation that the Consell Nacional d'Infants i Adolescents commented, you speak that..., in your interventions many times about participation, about empowerment, and I wonder why. Because when children don't like what they say, opinions don't count. And I explain to him: in the Report on the Prevention of Torture of the Syndicate of Greuges – I open quotes –: "Some kids show that they have to wait for the retreat to the night after having done extra-school activities. The department's response to the Syndic: "No irregularities are detected in the organization. Not only are they not listened to, but the department denies them. And if the guardian's will is that these children..., or the guardian's will be to care for the welfare of these children, he should take advantage of that valuable information from the children and young people who can move him about the attention they are feeling they are receiving in his absence. This on the one hand. The protocols. He also wanted to mention the interdepartmental committee, which he announced in the Commission d'Afers Socials..., if he could clarify who will be part of this committee and what specific functions he will have. Because we are very skeptical with all these working groups that list us, or this committee itself, because we have been able to see that there are several groups of people who work, for example, in the DGAIA Quality Plan that I have already commented to Mr Calvo..., several working groups that work for the Quality Plan and have been expired for two years. Nor do we have the results of the previous plan, 2008-2010. Understand that we do not distrust because we do, but because we have obvious reasons to do so. The marc programme of centres we have already seen, we knew it existed, but we find that what happens with the protocols: that they are not known and therefore do not apply. With regard to this framework programme, we will send you our contributions. As for the young people who are extolled. We welcome the fact that the plans he announced, including the employment of the young tutors..., we find here that there are no plans for academic accompaniment, which we should try to improve the academic results of these young people. We will also send you our proposals in this regard. Because education, with the published data we have recently..., tells us that half of the foster children do not exceed ESO, and that at 15 years of age only 32_per_cent is in the course that corresponds to it. We know it's not easy, huh? But we also know about programs that work in other countries, such as the Spark project, in the United States, where, based on a little more empathy, pedagogy and personalized learning, it is having good results. However, the results are much better when children are welcomed into the family; more reason for them to get to work to find the ones, because, as far as foster families are concerned, I have a couple more questions. We celebrate, huh? , that they will direct efforts to this resource, but I find that we have to lower the level of flight. I mean, do you know that children leave the centers without updated documentation? That foster families receive medical reports without being signed by collegiates, without the vaccination card? That no one sign the visit schedules that must be complied with and no one takes responsibility for the decision..., whether these visits have to be supervised or not. Nor does anyone inform them after these visits, bearing in mind that at that time they have the custody and custody of these minors. Of course, we have to talk about solutions in large, but also small, basic, that give solution to everyday problems, not solved. As for children from zero to six years old, I would like you to clarify me... – I completely agree that they do not enter centers –, I would like you to clarify how they will address the issue of groups of brothers, in this sense. In short, if we pay attention to the..., which we obviously do, to the reports of the syndic, neither guarantee the welfare of the children protected, nor guarantee the good food in the centers, do not look after their education, what kind of protection does this Administration give? As the syndic said to them this morning: "There are no excuses for this, and here they have all the skills and all the tools. And I hope that you will appreciate the motion that will come to you, because it will come to you with the best will to improve the situation. And I would like to end by thanking all professionals who work for children, who know for sure that they are doing their best to reverse the situation, even if they do not always have the right resources and are not always economical for the most vulnerable children and adolescents in Catalonia to have a decent childhood. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.164.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.165.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman, even though I don't agree with what you said and I know very hard that I can say that thanks to the workers, but that, in change, children are misled. I believe that the workers are grateful for just how well they treat children, for how well they are with children and for the welfare they give in these children that they need much more than they have. And that's the only thing we can agree with, but with a difference: that you're talking about concrete things, about a given moment that you've been told something. First, let's say what I explained to you about the law's deployment with the work we're doing with the extolls. And that... I'll explain to him clearly what it is that's done with the extolled young people. Therefore, the topic of insertion, it is not employment only, but also education, as you asked. But all I explained was the law, it had nothing to do with it. Since the 95th we have the service for young extolls, we are a referent at the European and Spanish level. And you ask who you want, you'll see. Beyond the syndic's report, I can ask all spheres of childhood, plus, with clear recognitions and clear awards, because we have an offer of services and programs suited to young people's needs, which in many other countries exist, and I can assure you that. But also because what it does is set up a system that involves a network of entities around it. Have you been to the assemblies of the host families? I do, and therefore the requests they make know them very well, but I know them very well because they also pass them to us by writing. And what we are trying to do, precisely, is to make a deal with all these demands they make, and among them economic resources do not ask for one; they ask for many other things, but economic resources, not one. I'll be back with the young wards. The support area offers young people between seven and twenty years of technical and educational support in all areas of housing, employment, socio-educational and psychological follow-up, emotional support, continuous counselling, economic support, legal support and search services. Therefore, the process of personal autonomy we try to make it the same as any other young person. Also, from what I mentioned before, from the subject that you serve different times from the minor inhalants, which we do not have, we, our young, do not want them to be in prison; what we want is that the promotion of them and personal development do it with the maximum possible freedom being in a center. Therefore, the subject, which unfortunately has been discussed, because there is the presence of minors in Inhaling Ciutat Vella, in Barcelona, after studying it, we see that one part of the young people are major – therefore, they are not our responsibility–, and the other part have been identified, it is true: they are adolescents protected by the DGAIA, that they are found escaped at certain times, because, I have said very clearly, we do not have any pressure, and the young people can go out and go back in, and a legal guardian has sought them, in care and attention and... but we can only do it when they are required by the Cos de Mosos, because we do not have a move to take from each young man to see what activity he does. They have free time, they can go out and they can go in. We are in control, because some young people have not been accompanied, so they have been identified for the moves, we are looking to place them in the protection system, as it should be; but, as you know, there are procedures, identification, transfer to dependencies, the result of the diagnosis assigns the resource..., so here we are working as in any of the others. We will develop the law, we will continue with the work that we are doing, because we are convinced that this new model, which guarantees the sustainability of social policies for children, but, above all, that it takes care that infants and adolescents are people one day, is what must guide us and it is with which we will follow. This will be ours, and we'll be alert to your young lady, who obviously makes us all the better, as much as possible, but know that we're also spending as much time as possible trying to keep up, and so do the two directors I have here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-05-04-1501.166.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine. Thank you very much.
