ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.1.0	Let's continue with yesterday's session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the BCN World project]] [[302-00007/11]] The next item is the following question to the Government about the NCB World project, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. To expose it, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, well, with the aim of contextualizing a motion that has appeared in a short, clear, concise format, in order to try to keep the contributions of other groups, which is already advanced, and in the intervention of the questions later I will explain it, but I would like to start the intervention with a small summary of what was the debate of the inquiry. And they're basically three points. First : BCN World is a vital project for the Costa Daurada, Tarragona and Catalonia. Together with Port Aventura and Ferrari Land, they would form an absolutely unbeatable trident of complementary tourism offerings and would have enough critical mass and volume to compete successfully with any recreation centre in Europe and the world. Without this volume, without this critical mass, we could have problems. Two: the criticisms to the project are, textually, the same – I showed it – that the ones that were made in the year 1993 to Port Aventura. Ideológiques carpetovetónic prejudices, which are ultimately out of date, ideological prejudices that paralyze modern societies. Three: that the territorial consensus in Tarragona around the project is absolute – absolute –, political, social, trade union and business. In this sense, we say that day, the reference would be legal, yes, but it would be unnecessary, illegitimate and has a point of injustice, too. Did you hear they didn't make a reference to put Catlar's town hall in jail? Hey, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In change, now they're talking about referendum. And that, precisely, reflects an idea that we moved that day, which is about a trap reference. And the most important proof that this is about a trap reference is that Mr. Junqueras, that day, was unable to answer any of the questions we asked him to respect: what would be the question of the consultation, whether it would be binding or not, what would be the circumscription of the vote. Now, from the last intervention of Mr Junqueras, which was the last of the inquiry and, therefore, he did not have my answer, but two questions arose, which I believe are also to be formulated today. First, Mr. Junqueras said there was no project. If there's no plan, then what do you have to ask? First big incoherence, first proof that we are ahead of a trap reference that wants to be the death certificate of BCN World. The second one has a little more depth load. Given the protection of the referendum on the part of the world champions of democratic regeneration, that is to say, the CUP, I ask: the referendum will give as a result a coat of arms to 1,515 because then it must be the policy of the CUP that takes the final decision, how did it go with the presidency of Catalonia? It's a question, I think, important to do, more than anything to get rid of our ridiculous, it's not like we're still mating at 1,714 or something like that. [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't say that because I do – I don't say that because I do. Two days after that assembly, a Catalan mathematician showed that there were more statistical possibilities than the Tomelloso Football Club, which never played first or second division, was able to win the Champions League in a five-year period, than not a draw at 1,515. The only thing really historic about these years of process is this tie. It may seem like a frivolity, but it's not, it has more depth than you might think. I'm not saying that because I do. Look, the contempt of the institutions, the absolute disgovernment have added another tape to the process, which is the perversion of direct democracy. Its partisan, biased use, in the service of a political objective or of a decision already hastened earlier; in the case it occupies, to load BCN World. They've already decided, the consultation is a trap. This perversion of direct democracy has had examples in Catalonia in recent years. In Catalonia, for example, with the child's argument "don't let us vote, they do consult a 9-N, which, on the morning, appear very young in social networks posting videos where they showed that they had voted up to five times. A great democratic tape – a great democratic tape. In Catalonia – in Catalonia – the paradise of direct democracy, the world champions of democratic regeneration, the CUP, make consultations that tie to 1,515. And then they talk about new politics, Angels. Well, now what you want, in the end, is to liquidate BCN World. And that's what you want to do: you want to add a query to this gap in direct participation. And I the only one who asks them is respect for Vila-seca, for Tarragona, for Salou, for the conjunction of the province of Tarragona. They want to load BCN World, but we won't allow it. We fight and we win. The demand respects them, the demand respects them for the illusion of a whole province in a project of future that must be clau, all twenty years after the dream of Port Aventura. Thank you very much. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.3.0	To defend the papers presented, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.4.0	Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, gain I have to see the result of the vote, even though I imagine it, of this motion presented by the People's Group. Among other things, because the majority group will have to resolve, at some point in this debate, not today, obviously, but it will have to resolve its internal contradictions. The different positions between the Democratic Convergence and the Republican Left of Catalonia around this project must be resolved. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Junqueras, explained to us now fifteen days ago in the question made to him by the deputy Alejandro Fernández, that there was no project, and then explained to us a whole series of considerations of how he saw the recreation and tourist centre of Vila-seca and Salou, and told us that he would go to a project that specialized more in tourism and family, a project of negotiations, of incentives, on the value of the part reserved for the casinos was smaller. And I made an effort, didn't I? , which was that work we did Convergence – the previous legislature – and the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, which supported this project from the beginning and which now did not take months, to the approval of an urban director. That it was an urban master plan that had nothing to do with the first announcements made by the president but when he referred to Barcelona World, that it was already a project, an urban master plan, which he approved initially, that contained what was explaining to us the vice president of the government in his intervention, now fifteen days ago, where the space reserved for the casinos, the soustre destined for the casinos, only represents a 6_percent of the joint of this project. Is there a project or is there no project? I believe that there is a project, that it is a project granted, that it is at public display, where everyone who has wanted to have made allegations. And as this is so, as the project is not the same as initially explained to us, because this work has been done for many months, we, one of the items that we formulated and that was accepted by the People's Group, was, precisely, to tell the Government: "Select, do not waste it any more, resolve the attachments, say what you have to say and form the provisional approval before the summer, formulate it before the summer. Because what we are playing is two things: an important reversal, the most important in southern Europe in touristic terms; after, we are playing, too, the creation of many places of work in a territory, in some places harshly punished for the past, with an index of people who at these times have no work superior to the conjunction of Catalonia. Therefore, there is a plan, but it has worked to adapt it to the needs of the territory and to adapt it, too, to the needs of the country. We don't paralyze this project anymore. We too consider – even though we have presented a point in this sense – that we do not need to make a consultation. Because, of course, we have the perception, we have the feeling that there is a broad consensus in the territory respecting this project. We have presented a statement, which has not been accepted by the proposing group, and we say to them: "Home, if a consultation is to be made in the end, this consultation should be limited to the Tarragonese region, to Vila-seca and Salou, and which, moreover, is a consultation that is permitted by the Consultation Law that approved this chamber. Just so the Constitutional Court said that it could do, that on sectoral issues, that on territorial issues it could do a consultation. So, well, if we have a law that allows us to do this type of consultation, that in its moment the Constitutional Court, with the law that the Parliament approved, made it easier, would allow it, probably weren't the consultations that you liked, huh? But this one... that most people liked, I mean. This consultation is allowed, so, if it is to be consulted in the end, let us limit it to what the consultation law is telling us. To see, in any case, you have already been able to sense my words that we will give support to the motion presented for the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.5.0	Next, the words of Mr Matías Alonso, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen; well, first of all I must say that I find the presence of the Economic Counselor lacking, that I think I should be here feeling that the groups think, therefore, respect this young man. A young man who is important, a young man who sees as a consequence of a project, a project that was born, saw the light I would say that at the mouths, a long time ago, already, in that epic September of 2012, with many difficulties at all times, with many doubts respecting his life and with a reaction, a reaction menu for the start of the project that famous Eurovegas, that we don't know, already, for what reason, no? With an opposition, moreover, initially strong on the part of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia; Mr Navarro, who was then his spokesman or president in the parliamentary group and, moreover, first secretaries, therefore, said that he saw it as a menu of tripijoc on the part of Mr Mas. But, well, the generation of 2013, with a new government of crack, there were many difficulties – there were many difficulties – and, in a way, the same government recognized that the project was stuck. Because it didn't sort out, it wasn't as clear as it was to award the gaming claims provided for in that initial project that was said to be BCN World. Since the opposition, at all times, we have denounced the opacity of this process, with much controversy in aspects that concern us and that continue to worry us in good measure, because, well, we do not fully understand the final impact of this tourist model; a tourist model that is defense as family, all that it is possible for families of other power to acquire. But we don't know exactly what impact the game industry can have on this tourist model, which is the ball of all this project, especially among the youngest, which was a motivating controversy in its day. Left Republican, who was then the preferred partner of the government and is now part of the majority group that supports the government, was totally against lowering taxes, which was perhaps the key to unscrewing the project as well. Mr Junqueras said – unfortunately there is no such thing as ‘yes' or ‘no' – that if he were to ban the game. I don't know if he's kept in this position right now. In any case, it seems that he also considered him to be a minor evil in the situation of this project. Well, insist on lowering taxes. Finally, we have to say..., the position was general, less the agreement that finally closed the PSC and CiU, then CiU, on March 2014, that agreement of the Pretori tower between Mr Navarro and Mr. But in what it was put green light to the possibility of lowering taxes. I have to remember: taxes that were, for the benefit of the game, between 20 and 55_per_cent, in four different levels depending on the benefits, and that suddenly and again in June 2014, for Law 6/2014, were lowered to 10_per_cent, as a single type. We were against it, and in fact we also presented to this young man a message that sought to reverse the situation to a guy who was a little more coherent, or say less bloody, for which he does to a gambling industry that is much benefited by respect for other industries or other productive activities. In any case, this pact could have disbanded the project. There's been passes. The project has some competition bases approved as of September 2015, but the approval of the urban director plan, which would also give green light to the possibility of this project, has yet to be completed. Looks like the majority group... divided. He was in the campaign: Mr. Romeva, a candidate for the Generality, seemed to be number 1 of the list for Barcelona, and Mr. Bel, number 1 for Tarragona, had different opinions, and they were thus exposed. We have also submitted papers that are linked to transparency. We want you to find out about the situation of the project, to find out about the local administrations and the agents who are affected, and also that the two advisors affected, both Mr Junqueras and Mr. Rull, make a appearance in this Parliament to explain the current situation of the project and the planned investments, because we are talking about a very important investment and we are talking about the creation of many thousands of direct jobs in the construction phase of these possible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.7.0	Mr. Alonso, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.8.0	...four lawsuits they're holding up. And finally... well, let's just leave it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.9.0	Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.10.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Alejandro, I could devote myself, these five minutes, to explaining the exams. We all know our position. But, look, no. What I'm going to try to do is disassemble this repeated lie a thousand times that the same ones we opposed to Port Adventure, and with the same arguments, we oppose Barcelona World and that you have shown. You didn't even read it or prove it. I do. I read all the transcripts of the debate on the Law of 89: the one given by Congressman Bargalló, of Esquerra Republicana ; the one given by the Congressman of Initiative for Catalonia - Verds, Mr Victor Gimeno... But, besides, I'm not saying, there's a very enlightening book, which is not suspected of being a Bolshevik, because it's written for Roger Jiménez, the former director of La Vanguardia, in 1986, which is called Les desventures de Port Aventura: the case of De la Rosa. And in this book it is clear that to whom we opposed at that time, and also socialists, that then they were still quite socialists... [[Rialles.]] Yes, they were also opposed to it. What did they object to? They didn't object to the fact that you had a deal. They objected to how the negotiations were done. They opposed Jordi Pujol's famous saying: "These deals, either he's a fan or he's not a fan. And how does it look, those deals? It's done expropriating land, which ended up in the courts because it was paid badly; it's done with an endorsement of 1,000 million public money; it's done with a Mr. De la Rosa who ended up in prison and that as you know Pujol posed as the next year's businessman, and that Mr. De la Rosa ended up in prison. And now what we're trying to do is that the negotiations aren't doing that, that's doing well. That's what we've been trying since 2012, from this famous photo, from what I remember, because it has to be remembered, that there's no one left. [[The speaker shows a photograph.]] Well, yeah, there's one left. Give this picture, there's one left. See if they can guess who it is. So there's the landowner, we all know who he is. The box, of this picture, is left. The Box remains, which is the owner of the land. Well, so that's all said, because I need to remember... I understand that you, who now have a pact at the Tarragona Council with the PSC and with the Union, have to pinya with your mayor, because they want to pull this project forward. Listen: jobs in Tarragona, we want everyone. And I'm angry, because there's no rigor. We want a project that is clear, transparent, that I believe work places, but that does not put at risk the work places that already exist or the territory in the future. That is why, strictly speaking, we have submitted attachments to the urban master plan. We've submitted non-critical allegations, just. No, no, allegations in the sense of what's going on with water; with the sub-administrations; future area; what's going on with the electricity generation, because there's no sub-station on the state floor to give energy; what's going on with mobility, brutal mobility costs, and some works you were thinking about because when the pill is made, it's done in all the integrated centers..., casinos at the same time. If an investor fails, as has happened, that of the four an investor has collapsed, what about the reels? What's going on? Is it going to be round midja? Are the others going to have to pay for it or are we going to have to pay for it with public money? All these questions, and I'm done, are what we put on the board of directors. And that's why we say, "Home, now we're at a time when there's initial approval, when there's allegations. We make a stop, we look at all the points of the law that didn't create consensus. I, Lord Alexander, speak'm of the Lord Moon. Mr. Rafa Luna, who was a layer of the law of his party, was also critical of some aspects of this law. With the subject of taxation, with themes of play... Therefore, with fears that they could put existing trade and tourism at risk. So, let's do a reset, let's rethink the project, let's look at those aspects that have had less consensus, let's see how we can get this project forward, that it's clear that Tarragona needs investments and that more South Comarques can't just be the place where certain types of industry, as we all know, and take advantage of this opportunity. And that's what we asked for, and that's why we have a proposal for the law that goes this way. And, finally, look, the last thought I don't understand why they didn't accept it. Because the last point I bring you is the only one who says that all of this, when there are girls in the attachments, informs the commission created in Tarragona. Because it seems to me that it is an ideal place, the mechanism of participation that we have endowed all groups with in the past legislature, where things will be exposed. I don't know what the problem is because he showed up here. If you'd rather do it behind closed doors only, it's a way of hearing politics. I think transparency... and, really, if we want you to agree, the place where it's going to take place, once you've made the allegation report, or once you've been informed, it's this committee, where there's not only all the parties, but all the social workers: the University of Rovira and Virgil, the unions, the chambers, the professional colleges... Therefore, said all this, we will continue to struggle precisely because there is a good project for Tarragona that I believe places of work but do not mortgage the future of our territory. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.11.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidate Group - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.12.0	All right. Thank you, President. You see, Mr Fernández, he is not so much with us, because we too..., I mean, "we are feelings and we have human beings, as his head of file says in Madrid. (Rialles the applause.) And, of course, these things affect us, too, you know? You see... well, I'm not here to make out, I mean... I'm here to fix the group's position, which is that we're going to vote 'not at all the points he presented to his young lady. For a series of reasons, of which I would like to expose some here. One, the main one, is that we seem to be acting, as a group of estate brokers, as a group of real estate promoters, when with this proposal they try to help sell some land to a private agent, in this case "the Box", which is the love of these lands, which are currently fleeing this territory. "The Box landed here the year 95 with some intentions of doing business, and there are some very interesting statements from Antoni Brufau, of "the Box, the year 95, when the park of Port Aventura was inaugurated, which said: "The negotiation will not be with the uncle, but it will be with the whole. And they were not well textual statements, that of the "totxo..., but that profit, negotiate, they would do it when they could build houses here, huh? , when you can build habitat. And all this, let's remember, which was expropriated, these lands, in private form, let's say, not the right mass in the name of public interest. This means that a project has been developed that is reversed in the majority of the company and that the share of private profit has been very – very – limited. And, actually, year 95 was inaugurated Port Adventure... it worked for five years, that, huh? The year 95, Port Aventura; the year 2000 the hotels were inaugurated, and when the Caixa wanted to make the authentic bargain, which was to sell habitat, the year 2006, with a partial plan, in which the tripartite allowed it some increments of habitability, right? , of square metres built, is when the real estate crisis and « the Box begins to run away from the area, begins to disinvest it. So, when people like the Box, right? That they are not an NGO and that they are there where there has been negotiations, they plant to leave a territory, as they have done, that is to say, the hotels have already come to the Italians, Port Aventura have also come to some Italian investors, I mean that here there is little negotiation. And here's where we ask him a question, or various questions, to say... to you and other than the government, too, huh? , which seems to have an interest in pulling this forward: when they speak of "intensive economic development for Tarragona and Catalonia, on what are they based? I mean, what project is it based on? Have you seen a business plan behind this idea? Because it's not a project, as far as we're concerned, because we haven't seen any serious documentation. Beyond a powerpoint and beyond a web, let's just say, that at the time Barcelona World has grown, there is no technically minimally rigorous document that we can analyze among all. So I'd ask you for a little more responsibility, a public feeling, when you promise thousands of jobs. Why, where are these twenty-thousand places of work that came to say, these five great resorts that were talking about the year 2012, these six casinos? That's to say, you come smoke, play with people's misery, which barely happens, and you'll have to give your face and explain someday, when all this turns out to be smoke, because from 2012 until now there's nothing to see, what we're talking about. And when you talk about territorial consensus, that's false. Because if you look at all the tourist development plans of the Costa Daurada, worked together among all the agents, or among the vast majority of the agents, from the hoteliers, the Tourist Board of the Diputación de Tarragona, the same university, you will see that they are headed in the way that is contrary to what you now want to develop. They are projects of tourist development in which many million public euros have been invested, that go in the line of integrating territorial resources, that go in the line of integrating cultural heritage – I see the Priorat, the Modernism of Reus, the Roma of Tarragona –, and in which I play it, vice..., this does not fit into this project of territories from the touristic point of view. And so they made it known in their day the same tourist agents. The association of hoteliers of the Costa Daurada of Salou - Cambrils - the Pineda have already expressed serious doubts before the viability of this project for the overoffer that could generate and the damages that could cause them to have a lot of empty hotel rooms if this is drawn forward. Therefore, be more rigorous when they talk about jobs, about job opportunities, because we talk about smoke, we talk about an idea that you don't have a project, that there is no document that is minimally serious that we can analyze. And from our point of view, we could go further. Because we are willing to work on this territory and want to develop it. We may even think that it may be interesting, at last, to reverse the property of these lands to their legitimate owners who in their day were expropriated. Because if in the last few years the Box has been unable to carry out a public interest, it might be logical to think that we would do better than the Box. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.13.0	Next, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.14.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councillors, deputies, deputies, whatever we're talking about, hey, Mr. Fernández? He does as much as we talk. Today it's the CRT, but it could be anything, the question is to end up making a parliamentary gable, certainly strange force, to end up going to the subject, to the topic we are used to talking about. It's just like what we're talking about, today we're talking about the CRT, we can talk about anything, the question is going to the issue to build a relationship that's good for them. So much for what we're talking about, Mr. Fernández. So much for what we're talking about, to end up talking about the issue that's his only obsession, it's his only concern. Miri, we, because it seems unusual to you to take into account the political culture in which we belong, in which we try to be coherent. We try to be consistent here, when we speak in this Faristol, to the institutions, to the Government of the Government of Catalonia and to the territory. And to be coherent, in politics, fundamentally means to complete the commitments, to complete the electoral program. The election program is a concept I don't know if you're familiar with. Junts' electoral program for the Yes says... – and I will read it literally, I will read it textually, so I will save it – he says, on his page 95: « Review and boost the project of integrated tourist complexes in the Camp of Tarragona. Therefore, it continues with the idea that it is basically a compromise with tourism of quality, responsible and sustainable. "Reviewing and pushing, that's what Junts' electoral program says for the Yes; that's what he wants to complete, not just this parliamentary group, but the Government of Catalonia. And I want to do so in order to reach three great consensuss: the consent of the government. It is certainly a transversal government, it is a very plural government, and therefore there are different visions. Therefore, here we must seek the consent internally to the Government. Consensus on whether this chamber, political consensus with the other parliamentary groups in this chamber. And, above all, territorial consensus, consensus with social workers, consensus with the affected veins and veins. Vice-President Junqueras said it, Councillor Rull also said it: this project needs to be rethinked, it needs to be rethinked, it is an initiative that the Government of the Generalitat wants to promote with a prior revision, with a planned rethinking, seeking, I repeat, these consensuses, this consensual formula. What line? What's the point? With what plans on the project? So, look, we are aware that this is a project that must be a motor project for Tarragona Camp and a motor for the country's conjunction. But it has to be with a project that is sustainable, over time, from an economic point of view and from a social point of view, that is responsible for the surroundings and that is, above all, linked to family tourism; family tourism, quality tourism, that helps to complete the tourist offer of the country, especially linked, for example, to the Fira de Barcelona, to the port of Tarragona; in short, a tourist project facing family tourism and quality tourism. And that it has a coherent dimension around it, that it is realistic and that it has a coherent dimension around it, along with projects that have already been left behind, such as those submitted by Veremonte or BCN World, for example; a coherent and dimensioned project around it. And a project that is controlled, supervised and driven by the Administration, by the Government of Catalonia, by the Government of that country; therefore, it is controlled, supervised and driven by the public sector. And how big this project is as a function of what the Government of the Generality is proposing. In any case, a project must be made around which the necessary conditions are created to facilitate a great reversal in this marque, in Camp de Tarragona, and to lengthen us – to lengthen us – every time more than a project that follows a mere speculation connected to the territory or connected, as MP Saladié said, to the totxo. Therefore, the government works, will work in this sense. The group I represent will help to seek these consensuses. And so, precisely, as we are destined to fulfill our electoral commitments and to seek the maximum possible consensus in the case of the Government and in this chamber, what we will do today is to reject this motion for an opportunist, because it tries to focus the doubt on a process that has led the Government and, above all, because it is inconsistent with what you yourselves thought and only gave a few months ago. Therefore, our vote, Mr Fernández, as you will understand, will be against this motion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.15.0	To pronounce on the papers, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I'd like, first of all, to thank the PSC and Citizen groups, with which we have agreed: the 1st and the 3rd, with the PSC, and the 1st and a transaction of the second with the Citizen group. Tell him, Mrs. Grau, that what I have done is reproduce, not today, in the inquiry, some statements that Mr. Gimeno made textuals at his time. You say this isn't rejecting Port Adventure. It's just that not even the most philanthropist of investors would put money for a project on the terms that you have. That's the problem you've always had, 93 and 2016 too. Mr. Saladié, first, I have to tell you one thing, I have to recognize it: maybe the CUP also has two souls, you and the rest. It's the first time I've seen a sense of humor and a bit of fair play in her group's interventions. [[remorse of the voice]] It's nice; don't get angry, don't get up, don't cry, don't..., quiet, serene... You're a person – we know each other – educated and I appreciate it, but you have some conceptual problem. You... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] , you're asking..., you're asking, what model. So, the same philosophy as Port Aventura. Did you go to Port Aventura badly? Then he says we don't have any consent. This very young man has had unanimous support for Vila-seca, Salou, and Tarragona capital, 23 of 27 governors. Is that not consent? They have a problem of representativeness. You say they speak on behalf of the popular classes. To the barri of Bonavista they do not vote neither the Tato, 0.67_per_cent; to Camp Clar, 1.1. Is that speaking on behalf of the popular classes? They have a representation problem. I, finally, already with the final reflection. The Government of Catalonia once more turns the bank to the Costa Daurada, turns the bank to Tarragona. Nationalism, and only seeing the forums, has always had a vision of Tarragona. They say that we are dandruff, that we are helmets, that we are antiquated; that they say, after all, that we are Spanish mass to the Costa Daurada. There is an epidermal anti-tarragonism, deep, in its way of expressing itself. [[Widow's remorse.]] They punish the mass process on the Costa Daurada. And I say to them: punish the PP group, punish Ciutadans, punish the PSC, punish what they want, but do not punish the tarragons carrying to misery an honest people who want to progress as happened with Port Adventure. He's the only one who wants them. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.17.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] The vote begins. The result is: 49« yes, 81« no and 0 abstentions. Therefore, the young lady has been rejected. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the education system]] [[302-0008/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the education system presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Miss Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.18.0	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, today we present a motion subsequent to the inquiry that we made to Councillor Ruiz, who is not present at the chamber today, where we primarily deal with the rebade that has generated between the educational community, and also in the territory, the announcement made for the public line closure department of P3, as well as the need to plan the school offer map in mid-long term, in co-responsibility with local authorities, with the educational community and taking into account, in particular, the demographic needs that we have at these times at secondary level and that require solutions now. That they do not pass either to increase rates, or to build more barracks, which finally end up converting, in many cases, to permanent ones. My group has proposed a motion, I would say sensibly, if it is intended, even responsible, to ask the Government to reconsider the school offer map, concretely the closure of all the public lines announced for the Department of Education, and to do so in an agreed manner with the local world and the educational community, taking into account consolidated educational projects, social needs, needs, also, territorial, and ensuring, in any case, that no line is removed unilaterally. We also ask to keep all the educational lines in the pre-registration process, to ensure that families can choose the school they want for their children. Because it won't make families trin – and therefore know the real demand of families – and then see what help they need to do for real low-rate cases. Do not tank lines in a preventive way, because if you fan it can end up predeterminating pre-registration to concerted schools, in many cases for fear of being left without the public square. The young lady also urges to schedule the educational offer for a period of five-two years – I remember that the same counselor said in this session that it is even done for two years; therefore, I do not think that the costs will be able to accept this point – and create public secondary lines, according to the demographic needs, promote the model of school that guarantees the pedagogical continuity, especially in areas where the construction of new secondary schools has been planned. Let us not forget, either, the democratic opportunity that we have at these times to lower the ratio of pupils per class to the proper course, in order to guarantee the educational quality of the schools in Catalonia, especially the groups of P3, and to avoid, also, massification at the secondary level. In the band of planning topics, the motion is a broader one and, moreover, it deals with other questions to which we referred in the inquiry, marking as a priority the objective of balancing equity in the education system. First of all, if we are talking about financing commitments, the Government is going to progressively increase the resources of the education system, as established by the LEC, to be at least 6_percent of GDP in the next five years. Let's remember that this was an object that was marked for this year and we're still far away. Secondly, we need to draw up a timetable for the execution of construction, remodeling, of the different schools in Catalonia with severe infrastructure deficiencies, of adequacy, before completing this course. They know, as we know, a lot of problems still exist, because of the lack of investment in equipment and the construction of our centers in the last few years. Let us not forget the need to recover the six-hour period in all the public educational centres in Catalonia, without this obviously assuming that the working conditions of the teacher, or in damages of other resources, such as the unfolding of groups, may be. Mrs. Simó will tell me that this represents hiring a thousand more masters. All right, let's talk about priorities. Because we remember that in our country children, young people, at the end of schooling, have fewer hours of truncated matter than other countries around us, and we cannot afford to have one hour less per day and advance parallel to the compaction of the day, which worries us as much as the element generating inequality. That's why we ask the government to know the pedagogical, economic and social impact that the compact would have, which can have in certain more vulnerable environments, because we really can't wait any longer. In a 2014 genera compliment check – two years have passed – the Government is committed to assessing the continuity of the hourly organization in each of the centers where it applied, and we haven't seen it yet, and while the number of centers adhering to the continuous day grew without knowing the consequences. For the theme of the P3, finally, we note that it is necessary to recover the co-responsibility of the Generalitat in the financing of the public service of municipal schools. We urge the government to guarantee a financing of these schools that covers at least the 1,600 module per square and year and to 'commit to increasing it progressively, up to 1,800 granted in its day with the assemblies of Catalonia. We could talk about the minimum required in the short term, but remember that the government's investment in 2010 was more than €1,000_million and now, in these assumptions extended with the vote of Junts for the Sí and the CUP, it is zero_euro. Therefore, we are talking about what is the minimum required to assume it urgently, because, as always, it is the municipalist entities that, without presupposition, end up assuming responsibilities that do not touch them. And, finally, therefore, we present to you a proposal in defense of public education that we would like most groups, including that of the Government, therefore, to be able to gather. And from here, therefore, I want to thank for advancing the effort, the predisposition of all the group spokespersons to improve this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.19.0	To defend the exams has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.20.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Governance is a priority, and so far teaching has not been a priority of the Government of Convergence and the Republican Left. According to the report The agenda of educational policy in Catalonia, presented in 2014 for the Jaume Bofill Foundation, the details in education that the former government did went beyond what the economic situation required for the crisis. During the term of Councillor Irene Rigau, the public expenditure per student was reduced by 17,5_per_cent, a reason for which this Councillor went to history to be the Councillor of the retail trades. We won't say that she was an advanced student of the PP retails, but that she was an authentic master at the time of retailing, and her mandate was characterized by being that of the worst conditions in the public teaching of the past few years, as can be corroborated by speaking with the different unions or with any member of the educational community. Moreover, these flaps fell full on the public school, a reason for which the report earlier mentioned ideological flaps. For Ciutadans, education is a priority, and that is why we support the demand for the increase in GDP for education. I repeat: to govern is to prioritize; it must be prioritized if you want to dedicate the premise to which people really matter, or not. Priority should be given to: either teaching or administrative duplication, or sanitation or over-subsidizing related communication media, or social services or pseudo-ambassations. In Citizens we are clear, we prioritize what really matters to people: education, social services and quality sanitation. Now you can see who the new government's priorities will be. For what he does to protocols against sexual abuse and other ill-treatment proposed to us by the young man, we have already commented in other parts of the world that these protocols, today, do not reach the faculty, nor much less the students. The teacher must have clear action steps, must have some indicators that can assume an abus and how to react before these indicators. And the student must have a reference teacher to whom he will address when he has this information. This young man, who talks to us about many things, also talks to us about the programming of the educational offer of a period between five and two years, which responds to the demand of the educational community, which has the feeling of absolute lack of planning on the part of the Government. Talk to whom you're talking – unions, pair placards and seas – everyone is referring to this clear lack of planning by the Teaching Department. In relation to this issue, the announcements of the closing of P3 lines announced for the department suggest that many families opt for enrollment in private and concerted centres, so as to ensure a place, with which this announcement ends up being a self-fulfilling prophecy: people end up not asking for places in public school, because it has been said that these places will be removed from public education. What needs to be done with this Christmas fall is to take advantage of it to reduce rates, because there is no doubt that low rates facilitate educational quality, and, in line with the best planning we have just come up with, to plan well the nine places that fall for secondary education. For what he does at six o'clock, we agree, whenever he does not go to the expense of other resources, such as now the unfoldings, for which we appreciate the acceptance of the emena on behalf of Mrs. Niubó. And finally, because I don't have time, we have the theme of bressol schools. This is an example where the different administrations, in the accounts of working together the Government of Spain and the autonomous Government, one for the other and the house without barring, and finally who ends up dealing with this expense are the joints, which get money from which there is no way to give this service absolutely essential. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this motion and be loving to ensure public and quality education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.21.0	Next is the words of Mrs María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.22.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Party of Catalonia, we believe in freedom of education and the right of parents to choose the educational model that corresponds to their priorities. And without public education with resources, quality and inclusiveness, it is impossible for us to talk about educational freedom or the possibility of exercising this right on the part of families. Children must be the centre of the system, their training in skills and skills to increase their opportunities after passing through our educational system. And at this point – I am sorry to contradict the councilwoman – we cannot claim today that our system is neither satisfactory nor equitable. Both the PISA results and the reports from these results, and for example Bofill, warn us otherwise: we have very few excellent students; we have too many students in the lowest range of results; ever the differences between students going to public or private schools are greater, to the detriment of the public, and ever the results of the students are more conditioned by their family environment. And we also know that every year the public budget for education in Catalonia remains below sufficient minimum levels, and every year the families, who can, spend more on education. And the rates of failure and abandonment, although they are improving, are well below what corresponds to Catalonia by socio-economic and cultural level. And it's not because our teachers or our students are worse, is it? This is absurd. If our education system is not providing children with what they need, it is due to the insufficient resources and the management model that is being applied in public schools. It is clear that we cannot talk about educational quality with obsolete buildings, classrooms in barracks – more than in any other community in Spain – unmotivated teachers and an economicist management of schedules, lines and ratios. Resources are fundamental, and contributing an additional 1,000_million dollars each year, minimum, to education in Catalonia would be essential to start managing the system with minimum quality standards. From the People's Party we argue that 80_per_cent of the non-financial budget of the Generalitat is intended for education, health and social services, and more now, when so many people are going through the bad and going to public services. And if this is not so, it is not because the Ministry of Education has reduced its contributions, which is true, but they have never represented more than 2_per_cent of the budget of the education council. If this is so, the Generalitat maintains foundations, consortia, public enterprises that guarantee the clientelism of a part of the society and the waste of these 1,000 or 1,500_millions that would so well come to Constellera Ruiz. And there are also clearly improved management elements, such as advancing supply planning. The tripartite was dedicated to opening kindergartens and schools that cannot be maintained now. Surely, then, this situation could have been anticipated. As the shortage of high school places has not been anticipated, a problem that we already have on the table and which the previous Government did not face. We ask the counselor for diligence and agility in this matter, or we will be condemned to institutes in barracks with unsustainable ratios. Reasonable and reasoned educational planning should be introduced at a time: a map of day-care centres, school planning and school plans, school development and development, definition and compliance with objective ratios. We also advocate the sixth hour for all public centres, which can be paid if the public sector is cut. And we want to know the impact, too, that has had the compressed schedule – we would like to receive that report that the counselor mentioned in the inquiry – and to ensure that it applies only if a large majority of the affected families support it. For all the above, we will support the content of the motion, but there is one point that the PSC motion forgot, which are the teachers; for us, the pillar of the system, because of the importance they have for it to fulfil its function. We need motivated and recognized teachers; that they do not feel exploited by an excessive time burden; that they feel respected by the educational community, such as the public authority that they have been since the LOMCE was approved; that they do not suffer arbitrariness from their superiors, as we are aware of the application of the Staff Decree; that they work with peace, impartiality and security, knowing that they can access a place on property because they are going to call oppositions. We want to urge the Generalitat to end the abnormal and excessive precariousness that Catalonia suffers in its teaching bodies, more than in any other territory of Spain. We want the basic regulations to be complied with and the oppositions to be called, the oppositions that touch the bodies that they touch, the essential ones for the citizens, such as that of education. This has been our amendment, and we thank the Socialist Party of Catalonia for accepting it and incorporating it into the motion. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.23.0	Next, to defend the papers presented, it has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.24.0	Good morning, everybody. We want to start by saying that Catalonia Yes, it can vote in favour of this young man. Obviously, we are in favour and agree to increase the resources of the education system up to 6_percent of GDP, to set up a timetable for the implementation of the best works of public centres, to see how we improve prevention and action against sexual abuse and bullying, to draw up a school map to predict the educational needs of five and two years, to adjust the number of lines with the demand for different school stages, to lower ratios, to recover the six-hour period, to evaluate the pilot projects that are due to the end and to recover the Generality's co-responsibility in the financing of the Bressol schools. That said, also, we want to express our concern about the later behaviours of socialists in the field of education – well, not just in the field of education, but it is the issue that concerns us now. And I say this for two things: lastly we will vote for the motion of the People's Party on concerted schools, the second point of the motion says: "Preserve the Servant of Education of Catalonia, created by the Law of Education of Catalonia, a mixed system formed by public and private educational institutions supported by public resources, ensuring, in any case, its stability, validity and sufficiency. So, well, unfortunately, it must be remembered that the members of the socialist bench are going to abstain at this point. Socialists and gentlemen, you cannot look at another side when the situation of the school in Catalonia is exceptional in Europe and the world. We have the highest percentage of concerted schools at European level, around a 40_per_cent, and we have normalized the payment of quotas by families when, moreover, it is prohibited by law. If something perils in the Catalan education system is not, precisely, the concerted school, which, of course – you know, but because memory returns – it is an anomaly that was created during the transition as a timely solution to meet a very strong demand. As a matter of fact, it was a timely solution, because we find that, if the very course peril fifty-five public lines of P3, only divided from the concerts are in this situation. I told you there were two things I was worried about, I went for the second. The second aspect that concerns us is the ambiguity with which the PSOE and Citizens have played for what they do to LOMCE, and I say this because the government pact that you have signed provides for the paralysis of the current education law in the aspects that are not yet in force, but it does not expressly mention the repeal of the law, as was reflected in its electoral programme. We know that to repeal one law first one must be approved another, but – and this you know better than I, who have been an institutional politician for years – it is important what is said, but also what is not said. Therefore, do not take us for granted, because to avoid the word "derogation of the text is neither gratuitous nor casual, and least of all for your part, that, at the time, and you did very well, you brought LOMCE before the Constitutional Court and filed an appeal for the returns before the Supreme. But this concern that we expressed is not only ours, it is also of the associations of mothers and fathers and of the unions of teachers, which, moreover, find to be lacking explicit references to the reversal of the educational details collected to the Royal Decree 14/2012. Another point – because there are a few of these pacts that worry us –; another point is the relation to universities. Plant a new set of university fees, which would take into account the student's income, which represents a social setback. As you know, taxes and public prices must have a universal character. And another pearl of the text: the new funding model of public universities wants to link university funding to search results, teaching and the occupation of titles and titles. In short, you're talking, you're talking about putting the knowledge exclusively to the market's service. So – and I return to the principle, I am not going to deviate from the subject of the motion – we would gladly vote for the motion that they present, but we ask them, and the « but it is important, coherence, courage and courage to defend the public school and the public university, now and always, and not to lower the rights of all on the change of a pact, which – we already knew, but yesterday we saw it – does not add up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.25.0	Next, you have the word to defend the papers presented on behalf of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, Ms. Anna Simó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.26.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, « to govern is to prioritize, said the deputy of Ciutadans ; therefore, we will talk about to govern and to prioritize. And we'll also talk about skewers, about how much you need to pool resources, strongly reduced – let's say –; an increase in social needs and an increase in inequalities, important; a reduction in birth rate, which is there; a tightening up in the execution of branch and module replacement works, very important – there are centers that carry new years in modules, and that doesn't please any of us who are sitting here – and we can continue. How can the difficulty of this truncheons be countered? Ruler, I mean, make decisions, prioritize, feel aware of the impact of every decision that you make and every decision that you stop making and, at short notice – because you already know what is the reception of Juntes per el Si and of seventy-two Members of this Parliament and of a very important part of the Catalan society – that means prioritizing planning, doing it in a co-responsible manner with the local authorities, because most of the education portfolios of this Parliament are of this Parliament – they are new to this legislature – but the last legislature was three years, three courses, fighting for as many as from the department and the territorial services are programmed the initial offer of agreement with the local authorities, as it is said by LEC. Because I want to remind them that there was a course that was shut down honest centers, and we conjured ourselves up because this did not happen again – because this did not happen again – because there were groups of P3 in one-line centers. And to this we said: "It cannot pass. And the department says, "This can't happen again. And that's why it's programming together; another thing is that you like or don't like what's programming initially – we'll talk about it – but co-responsibility means this: co-responsibility for decisions made. And once you've got them and you've signed a record of the mixed planning table, you can't say that that record wasn't signed and that you didn't say it, because you said it and it's signed. These acts can already see 'in the future, I guess, we'll see. Or, obviously, the need for dialog never increases and, obviously, the approval of new presuppositions 2016. Together for Yes we will vote for the majority, favorably this motion, but not at all points. There will be four that we will not do, and four that we will not do for a reason: that is to rule and that to rule is to prioritize. And whoever ruled should know, what's priority, and who's ruled should know that it's 1,800 euros per school floor at this time. And I should hear that the moment it is said: "Here you have a point for negotiating in the Generality Joint Committee - in the locals - that, certainly, this diverging there is another -, the square of schools Bressol and co-responsibility, we can start talking from EUR 875 per place, which is the one that there is and is not accepted this counterproposal. I mean, here, a few gains of co-responsibility there is, Mrs. Niubó. And I also have to say to them, obviously, down to the high-complexity centers, but one thing is with pre-registration visions. It will not pass from the twenty-five students per P3 place and will try to lower, but it is that, besides, there will be a time for pre-registration and enrolment, there will be many groups that will have 20 students, 19, 21, 22, it is clear that yes, there will be, as there is now, of course, it will be so, because the object is that there is not a single center – that there is not a single center – and that families can triate – and that families can triate. And excuse me, finally, the personal reference, but it's that I have it very recently. The year passed, in September, I had to enroll my son of P3– yes, of P3. The school I went through in the first option couldn't have been. Surely, if my municipality and the department had decided to put two lines in that school I could have entered, but do you know what would have happened? That the school on the side, surely, should have been closed, that it was a one-line school and that's the school where my child went, and I can assure them that this school – which was my second option, not the first – is a school that my child liked very much and I am very proud of the education project that you have. Therefore, let us think with perspective, because, if not, this school would have closed P3 with one line and, therefore, would be condemned to disappear. I will defend the project of this school, which was not my first option, until the end, because it is a public school of my barri, as good as any other, in my barri. All of this requires a separate vote of four points, Mr. Vice-President, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st and 3rd. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.27.0	Next, you have the word to defend the papers presented on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent of Mrs Pilar Castillejo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.28.0	All right, good morning. Greetings to all, and greetings to the students we have today against the reform of the university system and against the three plus two; greetings to all of them, who are today on a holiday. We are in front of a young man who we think needs to be approved most of the time, because the one who puts black on white is basic, fundamental needs for the functioning of the education system. They're the indispensable minimums. We believe that with these minimums we will not solve all the shortcomings that we have but, in any case, will help to deal with deficiencies, and if the department, at the time of truth, completes it, it will also resolve conflicts. What are we talking about in this young man? Resources, planning and dialog. And so that the Administration doesn't go further, much more than all three, into the education system. Let's talk about more resources. The young person is told to allocate 6_percent of the gross domestic product to public education. It is the minimum and the harvest, but we believe that it is necessary to go further and allocate all public money to finance the public ownership centres, which grant it through concerts of private centres that gradually diminish to their total disappearance, starting with the centres that secrete by sex. We ask..., it's also spoken in this more planning movement, as necessary as there is no planning. Can you make a case of the sense of improvisation that is experienced within the territory, in the local world and in the educational community when it is impossible for Teaching to show a schedule of the most necessary reform actions? I need to know who are the works that have been planned and when they will be executed. The constant feeling of improvisation makes us helpless before what might appear to be indiscriminate or random on the part of the department and the territorial services. And we are also talking, lastly, about more dialogue, another difficult lack of territorial services. The young person is talking about co-responsibility with the local world and about the dialogue with the educational community. There's not enough to approve motions to change ankylosing attitudes, but let's hope this helps. The local administration has to have a participation in all educational stages, especially in those that require an important element of proximity. We also talk a lot in this young man, and we think it's a very important point, about the closing of the P3 lines for the coming course; closings are often preventable. Our position is clear and very strong: maintaining all the lines of pre-registration and reducing rates to ensure the maintenance of groups and the improvement of educational quality. It is true that the schools have already rejected orders from the department of which are the lines to offer the pre-registration and, therefore, they have already rejected orders from which are the lines that are enclosed. But it's not true that it's always been granted to the local world, that's not true, and we're still in time to correct, because, if he's willing, that can be corrected. On the massiveity of secondary schools, which we are also talking about to the youth, we believe that what is proposed here is necessary: programming and creating public secondary schools, according to the democratic needs. But we think this can't be done in any way. Not the way we get used to territorial services. There is a timetable and agreement with the assemblies; it is always possible to talk to the local world of construction of public secondary centres that guarantees an offer of public places sufficient for all the students, sufficient and quality places, above all. We want to talk, too, about the six hour. We believe that technically it is not feasible with the resources and the current organization, and in any case, what we should reduce is this time to the agreed time so that the situation of inequality between the public ownership centres and the privately agreed ones wanders every time in reduction. Finally, we wanted to comment, too, on the issue of the financing of the schools in Bressol. The PSC, at this point in the House, did not want to speak for a minute, but drew the time to which it should go; unfortunately, we know that the current financial situation does not allow us to reach this horizon if it is not progressive. We've tried to deal with the PSC and we've even managed to get commitments from the Teaching that will greatly improve the current situation. The department has undertaken to stop throwing them in front of its own course, but the PSC has not accepted these commitments and is more likely to continue setting limits that it knows perfectly well that in the current financial situation they are not acceptable. It's a big deal, but the CUP will fight because the commitments that we made to the department and that go in the direction of clearly improving the financing of the schools in Bressol are complete, even though today it's not coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.29.0	Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. I want to thank all groups again for their bargaining effort to reach agreement. It's true that in many cases ultimately, so it wasn't possible, but I also want to thank them. Well, together with the Yes we've proposed four transactions. And, for example, we did not have a problem with accepting the promotion of a debate about the need for a new reorganisation of hours in the educational field. But this does not mean that the recovery of the six hour – it is to say, here I disagree with the UPC, not that the concerted one also lost this hour, but that we all recover it – it is a priority if we really believe in the need for quality public education. Neither have we agreed with Junts for the Yes on the subject of planning. We are pleased that in some cases an agreement has been concluded in mixed negotiating tables, but this has not been the case, nor in many of these tables has it been done in the case of joint meetings, to say the least. That is why we have not given in to keeping in the pre-registration process all the open lines as in general, to ensure precisely the possibility that they would comment on, the families, choosing the center that they want for their children. Neither have we agreed on the issue of municipal schools, where, as we say, of the 1,000_million euros we had in 2010, at these times we have zero in these assumptions extended for Juntes for the Yes and the CUP. His goal of negotiating it in the joint committee seems to me clearly insufficient and inconcrete. It does not make clear whether it should be the government or still the deputies who, without responsibility, continue to face such an important service. And it is that, while they recognize, therefore, the obligation with the private initiative financing schools deprived of social interest – nothing to say – do not do the same with these municipal schools. The same can be said of the CUP emena: we cannot accept it because it is insufficient. He talks about adding 15_million euros to the Bressol schools to the 2016 assumptions; 15_million euros, while the schools that secrete by sex do not win 25. We can't accept it. And it's really hard for us to hear how parties, people we've shared an education model with, now we don't share the disaster they've caused for public education the details of the last years of the Government of Convergence, and in change, therefore, that for the compromise with the process they are surely linked to an education model that wasn't theirs, that of the six-hour or the bressol schools. With Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, to say that I honestly think they're wrong about the enemy. We did not vote in favour of the concert; we abstained from the point that the only one who does is to recognize that we have a mixed system, which is the same as the LEC. We will continue to find ourselves defending a public model. On LOMCE, indeed, if I want to tell you that we will repeal it, but we will repeal it when we have a new agreement. Therefore, we are talking about paralyzing its application while making this new agreement with the educational community. To say that with them we have accepted item 2. We have also traded with Ciutadans to ensure that the recovery of the six-hour period is not at the expense of working conditions. With Ciutadans, too, the thought shared the concern for the compacted day. And to give thanks, therefore, to the deputy of the People's Party, from whom we have gathered the thought about ensuring the provision of teaching places and educational inspectors in the call of some nine oppositions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.31.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break. Pilar Castilejo Medina asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.32.0	Congresswoman, why ask me the word? [[Widow's remorse.]] Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.33.0	Excuse me. We wanted to ask for a separate vote on point 1.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.34.0	1.f. (Pause.) Okay. The vote begins. (Founding voice) Pardon me: the vote begins and we will vote separately. First vote: 1st, point... (Fonderful voice.) No, no, I'm explaining the vote. Vote 1.e, 1.f, 1.h, 1.i and 3, huh? Points 1e, 1.f, 1.h, 1.i and 3, which are those who have asked to vote separately. We will vote on them separately and then vote on the rest. Okay? (Pause.) So now we're going to start voting point one. The result is: 70« yes– because we had two delegated votes– and 61« no. Okay? (Pause.) We will continue to vote for 1.f–1.f. 118..., well, there are 120« yes – I hope – and 1« no, and 10 abstentions. (Whispering) Keep going. Then we vote at 1.h. 70' yes, 62' no and 0 abstentions. Then we vote on point 1. 60' yes, 72' no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then we vote on point 3. [[Widow's remorse. Greetings.]] The result was: 100..., 109, it seems to me, 109 for and 22 for us. Now we're voting now we're voting the rest of the vote, the rest of the vote. The result is 132 in favour, no abstention and no vote against. [[Greetings.]] The next item on the agenda is the following item on the agenda: [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Why ask me the word, Mrs. Rovira?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.35.0	To donate an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.36.0	Forward, thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.37.0	To expose that, as the error of this spokesman, the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, has erred its vote at point 3 and that, in any case, it was quite contrary to what we have emerged. Therefore, I do not take responsibility, but I want to make it very clear what our position was, that, in any case, the position was not favourable to point 3 of this motion's vote. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.38.0	Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the nine measures to ensure the protection of minors in the field of education and other format spaces]] [[302-000009/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the nine measures to ensure the protection of minors in the field of education and other formative spaces, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms Gemma Lienas. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, they're quiet. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.39.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. I would like before we give thanks to Manuel Barbero, the father who uncovered the sexual abuse of the Marists, for his presence here, and also to the Fada foundation, who accompany us today; the Fada foundation fights against sexual abuse. For me it is a great honour that my first intervention in a plethora of Parliament has not only been the voice of children and children who have suffered sexual abuse, but also the voices of families who have had to go through this hard experience. When, after reading all the protocols, reports, and talking to entities and specialists, I asked the councillor, as the politician and citizen felt a great responsibility to be able to defend the rights of our children and young people, rights that had been damaged. But I have to confess that fifteen days later I feel more responsible and moved yet, because at the length of these two weeks they have come into contact with some parents and seas, I have been able to talk to them and I have added that, beyond the unbearable suffering they have experienced – knowing that someone had abused their creature–, moreover, they have suffered the disempowerment of the Administration. The families felt very lonely. It must be an obligation to accompany and help families. Our young lady, we said, wants to improve the protocols that had been established so far, because we understand that our duty as Members and Members is to promote the action of the Government. From our young man would like to highlight four aspects: training, visibility, obligation and prevention. First, he trained her. The staff in contact with creatures do not have enough training either for what they do to children's rights or for what they do to sexual abuse and abuse. We can train all the staff, remain personal of the school world, the world of the lleure, sport or other areas, such as the judiciary, health care, the police, etc. I have been admonished, during these days, that, as with male violence, and still happens, there is a lot of ignorance about the subject. The protocols showed that when they focused attention on the abuses they had in the family, as if in school there could not be. I have also noticed that there are people who are harmed and believe that there are children and children with a definite profile that makes them likely to be victims of pederates. Calta a lot, a lot of information, a lot of training. Another priority for us is information, breaking the taboo, making this problem visible, giving it a name: « sexual abuse to minors; sexual abuse that is normally done by people of their trust. As happened with male violence, we need to raise awareness of society, from here we are proposing awareness campaigns. It has also seemed essential to us to improve the Mark Protocol so that it is clear that all the centres, all of them, are obliged to follow these protocols, not to follow them, and that it is necessary to guarantee the legal security of workers when they report abuse. Finally, as I said in my speech to the House, it seemed especially important to us to introduce the prevention of abuses, because it is much better to prevent, and in any situation, that there is no need to solve a drama when it is already somewhere. Our society is very used to dealing with problems once have occurred, with cardiovascular disease, with school failure, with social exclusion, with sexual abuse. It would be easier if we put the emphasis on prevention. I believe that we must teach our creatures not that they have the obligation to say "not when someone crosses a limit, but that our creatures have the right to say "no" and, moreover, the opportunity to seek help. I would not want to end without saying that there are some creatures who are more at risk of suffering sexual abuse than others: they are infants and young people with intellectual disability and/ or mental illness. Can you imagine, MPs and MPs, having a daughter of two years with severe intellectual retardation, who doesn't speak and who is diagnosed with a sexually transmitted disease when the family takes her to the hospital for emergencies? I'm sure you can imagine. I had to listen to this story. And that's why we're asking for greater protection. Finally, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups, which have made a remarkable effort to contribute significant improvements to the motion and to try to reach consensus. I hope we can approve it unanimously. And I'm telling you that Catalonia is capable of being very vigilant with the compliment we're voting on today. They owe it to our kids. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.40.0	To defend the papers presented, Ms Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.41.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again. In the first place, thank her putting the predisposition to reach agreements. My group presented three papers that mainly collected the rebuffed contributions of Save the Children, an entity that has worked very hard on these issues. And we have to say that, although we do not see one hundred_per_cent reflected, in some way, we are satisfied with the introduction into the protocol of the prevention of sexual abuse of the reparation of the damages, also the obligatory compliment of this protocol on behalf of all the centers, both public and private, and we also understand those of the first cycle of childhood education, as well as the inclusion of health personnel in these protocols as cross-cutting in point 2. We think she's a very correct young woman, putting up a fundraiser that's about to be done. And what we expect is that the government, once reviewed all the corresponding protocols, presents us with its proposals for better coordination, as well as the protocols and other action measures and resources needed to improve prevention, detection and action against sexual abuse and other abuse in educational centres. I would like to greet, also, especially, Manuel Barbero, who is attending this session today, which we have had the opportunity to know; to highlight his courage in denouncing some hard and delicate facts which have opened the doors to other complaints until now silenced, and which we hope, therefore, will end with a withdrawal from the concert to the Maristes, if it is finally found that they have not fulfilled their obligations. From here, our respect and our support. Many of your requests are in one way or another in this text, and of others, surely, we will have the opportunity to work them not so much in warm, but surely making a deep reflection, focused not so much on the terms of prescription of the crime, but on prevention, the proper mechanisms of reporting, in a system of effective protection of the least victimized. Of the motion, highlight, obviously, the need for revision and modification of the different protocols that for their limitations or for their non-application have not worked in absolute, the guarantee of their obligatory compliment, and, especially, the imperative need to guarantee the training of teachers, educators, monitors, health personnel, of all educational stages, without exception, because they detect indicators of sexual abuse and mistreatment as well as other cases of settlement. We think that we should give tools to this staff, knowledge and training, also, for the application of protocols, make them participants in the necessary pedagogy and awareness against this sacra. And fight also against taboo, shame, sometimes stigmatization that tends to lead to these cases in the very realm of families. So, a lot of work still to be done. Let's get down there, let's go together. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.42.0	Next, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.43.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs; Greetings to the guests too. We're dealing with an important issue here. We will try to shield the best interests of children and adolescents in the educational sphere, and we must do very well, we must succeed in establishing the mechanisms that guarantee protection. Specifically, today we are talking about child sexual abuse, a problem considered as a great taboo and of which there are no data. From some who come in, we know that set of each of you have been eaten by trusted people and around the child. The latest cases of abuse that we have seen came precisely from adults who had to help them in their education. This demonstrates the urgency of agreeing effective measures to prevent and eradicate the impunity of abusers. In the previous plenary, and in her inquiry, Member Gemma Lienas placed all parliamentary groups to work to build a joint proposal. We want to tell him that we took the word to him at the time that we wanted to congratulate her on bringing this motion to the plenary. We have worked, and we must also thank them for having accepted some of our papers, because, of course, they have been presented with the will to enrich the text. In that same ple, the councillor listed a series of up to five protocols for us to see the importance that gives their department to protection. But we must tell you, Madam Counselor, that the problem is not only that they are not effective, but everything that still remains to be done. They say empathy is the ability of the individual to pose at the place of the other without losing his own identity. So, well, empatitzin; empatitzin with the couples we gave by the fact that we could leave our children at school alone under a system that guarantees their protection; empatitzin with the couples that we could read a devastating report from the Greuges Syndicate on the case of the Marists, where the round fraction of a whole system, the fraction, moreover, of a protocol that has not only not worked, is evident, but it has not even come to work. I'm doing this exercise. With our views, we want to bring concrete action and facilitate a series of measures which, in our opinion, are essential. The most basic and indispensable is prevention, including prevention and the restoration of emotional harm to a protocol that must seek to guarantee full attention to minors who may suffer from violence; an extensive and well thought-out prevention, which is transversally in the form of specific training between departments and professionals, and which also involves the Health Department, between the same students, from P3 onwards, and for families. It is necessary to guarantee the completion of the protocols, and for this reason, consequences and penalties must be provided for their failure to comply. In this sense, our group was more ambitious and we proposed the request to review the statute of limitations of crimes in order to avoid impunity for the central government. We regret, however, that the disease that this reference causes in some groups has caused the proposing group to be more esteemed not to include this proposal. Because we find that this coordination between administrations and departments to protect minors is fundamental, as is the involvement of the centres in the development of their most detailed protocols within the Marc protocol. Incentivizing locals because, through municipal school councils, participation in teachers, peers and students is facilitated. And all this urgently, and urgently they have to get to work because it's getting this protocol coming to all the centers, both public and private or concerted, lock in the schools. We know of his will and he will have us on his side, but always, always, always vigilant, vigilant because the children's rights are not vulnerable, vigilant because it guarantees the knowledge and application of the protocol with the educational inspection; that the listening services are known, that the children know them; in short, that silence is broken. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.44.0	Next, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.45.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... well, in the first place, we also want to greet, therefore, the couples who today accompany us for their courage in defending their children. Thank you so much for being here today. Well, I think there have already been many questions, on the part of the Members who preceded me in the paragraph, and I think that what we are dealing with are situations of such gravity that I have no doubt that we will agree with all the parliamentary groups. The violation of the juvenile's rights in some educational centers... and, look, two days ago we had news that at an Ametlla del Vallès institute, the Squadron Mosses held a teacher for sexual abuse of minors. So, what did he say, huh? , this violation of the children's phone rights is inadmissible because it supposes to exceed all the red lines for which it refers to the intimacy of children and adolescents..., as well as the repercussions that these abuses, therefore, will mark in their future. It is a motion that, from the People's Party, from our party, we value very positively, Mrs. Lienas, whenever it is put into practice what is called for, and which, in short, could be summed up in three areas. In the first place, prevention, detection and action. The European Council warns that 20 % of the world's children and young people suffer from some type of sexual harassment or abuse, most of them in the home and a smaller part in the school environment. I understand that, after the cases that we have recently met at different educational centres in Catalonia, this young man is now in charge, but I think that some day we should address in depth the violation of rights by relatives to minors, but also to those who are older. But, well, we're on another issue, and that's what we're dealing with, right? Here's the thing to think about, and I think it's enough to talk about, is if the government is acting right in front of these situations of defence of minors and their families, who, as we know and can know from the first hand, go through a lot of calvary. I said it before: prevention, detection and action. These are the three battle horses so that we can eradicate some deplorable parties that like society we can't afford. We're talking about protocols before situations of child and adolescent abuse. Yes, it is obvious that I can review them to update them and improve them; I can force the centers to complement them, etc. But it is necessary that prevention is especially taken into account in these protocols. And what does prevention mean? Therefore, it implies insisting above all on the awareness and training of educators, to be able to detect clues, always in coordination with families. For what it does to detection, we demand swift and forceful action by the agents involved – students, teachers, the workers of the centers in general, family and health personnel – to prevent, detect and, ultimately, act, and here we do ask that justice proceed in a timely manner; here are not worth the tinted myths, the culprits have to pay for their crimes, in these cases, very hard, and, moreover, they have to do it without losing a single minute. The institutions, in this case the Generality, have the obligation, at least there are indications of abuse, to act with determination, compromise and, above all, transparency, because what gives the feeling is that there is a certain oppacity at the time to address these issues. Obviously, it still has to go through the corresponding channels, without going over the right to intimacy, which everyone has, obviously, just like everything else that's already in the hands of justice. To reiterate our support for the movement, and to regret that we did not accept the only message that we had presented, in which we asked that emotional education programs are fessin from the beginning, and not from P3, to consider that a child of three, four, five years is very small – we considered – to distinguish certainly questions that make reference to their intimacy, and, perhaps, instead of helping them, we can still create more insecurity. Finally, from the People's Party, we condemn all cases of pederasty that are coming out of the light in these past weeks and show all our support to victims, in these cases to minors, but also to relatives, who suffer from these situations. Look, like the mother of four children, I stand on her skin and I recognize that it must be a desperate and defenceless situation before some serious acts of humiliation. Finally – and I would like it to be in the Minutes – I would like to address the Group of Together for the Yes, because we regret that this issue that they have presented on..., that Parliament strongly condemns all these actions, so we think that it should have been done together and that we could have signed it all the parliamentary groups, bearing in mind that it is an issue on which we all agree, and I think that this should have been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.46.0	Mr Josep Maria Forné, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.47.0	Good morning, President. Deputies and deputies, lords and lords, family members of Barbero, Vicki Bernadet and different people who accompany us today, we are talking about a young person who is protecting and caring for fundamental rights, because we are talking about dignity, and dignity is the value of the most people in any condition, also the age, logically. And, therefore, the rights of childhood are rights, especially, which must be taken care of..., and for their vulnerability. Moreover, one thing that has made our civilization is to discover the importance of childhood in the biography of each one of us: the facts that pass us into our childhood are decisive in our evolution. So, we need to be on the side of child defense, and this young man is on this line. But if, in addition to these abstract ideas, we find ourselves face-to-face, with concrete people who suffer from the violation of these rights, it is more than ever our obligation as an institution, as responsible and as representatives of the citizenry, to give response and to seek, therefore, to solve this violation of these rights, which are fonmental and of basic primordiality. Given this context, the first thing that needs to be done is to condemn the facts that may violate these fundamental rights, and from here on out, and I understand that, somehow, Mrs. Lienas afterwards seems to me to invite us to a unanimous and shared reading for all of us to rebuild and condemn the facts that may have become. The facts that have passed, have passed, ask also the repair, in the measure that is possible and, in this sense, you will tend to all of us at your side, all the families that have to suffer situations like this. And, above all – above all – what we ask is to look forward to, because that doesn't happen again, because that, then, is a chess that we've already overcome and that somehow doesn't have a repeat with us. So, let's celebrate a lot of the young man who is here, who works in this sense and who is an initiative, somehow, that goes to prevent this from happening again. We appreciate the presentation to the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and, in concrete terms, to Mrs Gemma Lienas, the presentation of this young man. We appreciate the willingness of all groups to find this consensus, because I think this is very important on a subject like this. Beyond some of the nuances that we may have, therefore, seek consensus and unanimity; I think we will get that unanimity, and that, we appreciate it. We also appreciate that the CUP, somehow, has made, through us, also, the incorporation of elements that are made in this young man. I, these girls – these – considerations and these graces, did want to, however, make some questions of detail, which seems to me to be important in this chamber to make them. We have to deal with the violation of children's rights, the sufferings that may involve sexual abuse, but please take into account that four of every five of these cases go out of school, go out of..., four of every five go into the family. Somehow, before that, I'm Congresswoman Marisa Xandri, and there we have to donate... we'll also have to intervene. Even more, among the 20_per_cent that happens outside the family environment, there is a 20_per_cent that happens in the school environment, so the first thing I wanted to say is that we don't have to focus, because we would make a hard mistake, to focus on the school environment, on the theme of... The second: unfortunately, this phenomenon has no title. Moreover, the Administration already has resources and has made use of these resources, and is making them useful, and this young man can improve them and, in this sense, we benefit from it, but we must recognize that we are not starting from scratch. And it seems to me that, in this sense, therefore, it is necessary to aggravate the work that is done by the Administration, in concrete from the Department of Education. The LEC is a good tool, it is a tool that allows to sanction in case there are incompliments, and, therefore, it is a tool that we also have to value positively. And, later, in the last place, what I would like to emphasize is that this young man, above all, what he does is put the person in the center of our eyes and not the Administration, and put all the Administration and all the departments to the service of the person. And in this sense, we will vote in favour of all points in the House. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.48.0	To fix his position, has the word Mrs Gabriela Serra, of the Parliamentary Group Candidate of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.49.0	Thank you, President, good morning. Mr. Barbero, ma'am, thank you for being here with us. Thank you very much for coming with us. And, Gemma Lienas, thank you for giving us the opportunity to have an important, interesting and transcendental discussion of our childhood. "Victims of sexual abuse are surviving. This shocking and strange statement, made last week for a young man who a few years ago suffered, in his own flesh, abuses continued by a teacher of the religious school of Barcelona, studying, showing us the cruelty, the authentic size, the consequences and the sequels of the least victims of sexual abuse. For, guilt, shame, panic, connivance, complicity, concealment, silence or impunity are some of the words that strike this reality, and that resonate them once and for all. "He raped me more than fifty times, these are the ones I am able to explain, but they could be more. His assignment lasted six years, almost always in the campaigns, other times in the table of very large skirt that he had in his computer room, that of the basement. I was the last one, when the other students picked up their parents. When they all came together, he forced me to practice his spells, and ejaculated over my body. I was always asking myself, "Would you like me to run?" I was eight years old when he first did it to me. This witness, as well as the rest of what I will mention, has recently made himself public in The Journal of Catalonia, and they display the double morality that prevails in this country and the lefts of a system that has not been able to age for the rights of our infants. They are reports that show the cruelty of a perverse reality that is sustained by the abuse of power and by the impunity of the aggressors, that allows to double the dignity and causes the loss of self-esteem of the lesser victims of their abuses, shame and dishonor, also for many of their relatives. "Time after," says another victim, "I understood that he had taken advantage of his superiority to abuse me. Pass. They take over this superiority. The aggressor imposes a submission feud, blind obedience to power. The victim doesn't get to disobey, she's a child, a child, and she's in school, and she's been educated to obey the master, and by mediating chanting and coercion she's being denied, plus, something as important as her right to the truth. "My companions told me that I was the teacher's favorite," recalls a little girl. I thought so. Master M. ordered the class to do exercises, while she, who passed to her table and sat on the skirt, on the knees. That's where I used to play at the bottom of my stuff, and so was my socks. The grapevine had a place outside the abst from the view of the rest of the students thanks to the frontal ceiling of the master's table. I noticed his erection, if I didn't understand what it meant until I was older. At one point, he got up, sent me to my place and went to the washroom. The girl accused the master of having abused her when she was only eight years old. For all this, among other things, Alba Alfageme, a psychologist specializing in victimology, sums it up perfectly in an article recently published in the Ara Diari: "The impunity of the silence hand is a little more the protection of the author, shivering and exhilarating the defense of the victim. The social and institutional response to child sexual abuse cannot contain an excuse. Without what it is possible to emerge, without why it is so much that it is possible to emerge, so that the people who conform to them assume the real compromise with the welfare and protection of the children. For this reason, the motion presented to us by Mrs. Lienas speaks..., proposes to us to modify the protocol of performance, to review the protocol of performance in cases of abuse, to continue to develop the service of specialized attention to the infant, to guarantee the information and training of the teacher. Why? Because, among other things, fifteen days ago, the Syndic of Greuges, Mr Ribó, declared that the one that fails streptly is the application of the March Protocol for sexual abuse and ill-treatment to minors signed in 2006– a few years ago– and as they remembered another companion, Congresswoman, before yesterday they came back to us with impunity. And we ask ourselves where the coordination between the competent institutions is. And we ask ourselves what this government will do, if it'll store its head under the wing, if it'll look at another gang, if we still don't want to see the shames and allow this impunity to continue. For all these reasons exposed, we, the CUP - Cree Constituent, will vote in favour of the vote that is presented today, and we will vote for it because, moreover, we are grateful for the effort that has been made to introduce plantations, observations, all with the intention of enriching them – also some of our own – because it is essential to apply with force the measures and actions, the legal tools that we already have but do not propose to apply, and those that we are bringing with us beautiful new...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.50.0	Mrs. Serra, bring more than a minute...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.51.0	Can I have more than a minute?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.52.0	More, six minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.53.0	Doesn't he have an extra? [[Rialles.]] Well, so, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.54.0	I let him go on because it was very, very, very important what he said, but it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.55.0	Just leave a sentence, President, please. What I'm saying is that victims of sexual abuse are questioning us, questioning society, this Parliament and the government. Most people do it with their eyes down, from a very painful silence, for dignity and for respect for their pain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.56.0	Lady Serra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.57.0	...we have an obligation to do the right thing. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.58.0	Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Gemma Lienas, of Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.59.0	Thank you, President. I want to thank the effort of consensus that all the groups have made, most have brought aspects that improve the youth. I think it can be approved unanimously. And I don't think anything else could be heard by anyone, by either Mr. Manuel Barbero, who is here with us, or by society, for a subject that concerns us in a unanimous way. Jo, on my first intervention, I said I had a cooperative will. I think it's an obligation we have as Members and Members, and especially with fears that they cause so much concern and so much rebuff to citizens and citizens. We have made an effort to reach a consensus that, at some point, has meant to reject some slogan that we would have liked to incorporate or accept some slogan that we did not have; but, ultimately, as the text has remained, it seems more than correct. I'll quote a few better ones, because the groups have already talked about the better ones, but I'd like to quote some of them. The CUP has made us a better one, because it asks to develop the mission and the functions of the Observatory of Children's Rights. It seems important to us. The PSC wanted to specify that all centres must complete this protocol, and when everyone says they want to say they have the title they have. It is true that the protocol does not differentiate between centres, it speaks of centres in general, but we have a letter from the Teaching Department from a relatively recent fact in which it is shown that the protocol has been interpreted as referring only to public schools; therefore, it seems important to us to make this clear. We want to thank Ciutan for the finer work he's done to the young man. We'll just quote one thing, which is the fact that you want to warn families when your children have suffered a sexual abuse in the school environment. So far, I don't suppose you, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, would want to be alert, would want you to listen to them if your son or daughter is sexually abused. Together for Yes we thank them that they have eliminated our catechists, because this has allowed us to add a new point to the protocol..., to ask that there is a protocol to entities that are private, but that are in contact with creatures, that may be religious entities, but also sports, leure, etc. The PP didn't accept the emena. Jo, in more than one email, I explained it to Mrs. Xandri why not. She asked, her group asked that we swallow her prevention to children of P3, P4 and P5. We posed this after talking to specialists who tell us that prevention should start a long time ago, and that, naturally, small creatures are told prevention not by talking to them about sexual abuse, but by explaining the count of the red caputxeta. That's why we didn't want to accept it. I will ask the table to read, before the vote, a statement to the whole Parliament. But I don't want to end up without reading them a sentence – if I find it..., that I seem to have left it..., no, no, I have it, I have it – that I say..., it's from a forty-year-old woman who suffered sexual abuse when she was a child and says: "Trust and naivety are not blindly trusting in others, but trusting in those who respect your limits. And that's, I say, for infants, young and adult people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.60.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Before we start voting, I want to say hello, on behalf of the whole chamber, to Mr. Manuel Barbero and his wife, who are accompanying us today. And, also, I'll ask Secretary Nuet to read this statement that Mrs Gemma Lienas asked us to do before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.61.0	« The Parliament of Catalonia strongly condemns any type of sexual harassment and abuse and shows its complete rebuff, considering that under no concept can they tolerate or conceal. They are totally unacceptable acts, which aim at the fundamental rights of people and which must be prevented and eliminated, decisively and decisively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.62.0	The vote begins. The motion was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions and no votes against. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into water concessions]] [[302-00010/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on water concessions, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, she has the word Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.63.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Bureau, Members of Parliament, Councillors, we continue with Aguas Ter Llobregat. Yesterday we focused, as was the case with the proposed law that was under discussion, on saying to them: "Why take the ATLL competition? Yeah, that decision, we thought it was bad. ATLL was missold without any strategic vision of water policy; it was sold only to cover a hole product – as they always are, these holes – of government mismanagement. And this means, and it is rather regrettable, that the greater privatization of the history of the Generalitat, was not motivated by the search for the best service for the citizens. And it's not something I'm saying, it's been repeated by the government to the point of satiety. Recently, Mr. Rull, but since those who made the decision in his day, regretted having to take the, they said it was a sacrifice, "they did it with pain, those are the words of Mr. Recoder. Do not tell me that those words are reassuring; they do not, of course, sound proud; they do not sound, of course, to think that it was the best option for citizens. But it's just, on top of that, he had to hurry and run, and that's what we're going to talk about today. It is so complex..., an award as complex as the granting of a service that would depend on the water supply of more than half of the population of Catalonia and for a period of nothing less than fifty years. An operation like this, if for some reason it has to be carried out, it cannot be done in a hurry, it cannot be in a bad way. We must make sure that every coma is in the place that it has to be, because, if not, what happens; if not, what is happening to us now, that comes a few resolutions, sentences, reports that say, one after another, that this award has gone wrong, that we are faced with a legal burden that leaves us in a situation of insecurity, that we can end up paying all the citizens. It is true, and in that I give you a little reason, that you no longer know or what is the worst that you have done, because each new sentence focuses on an irregularity different from the previous one, but that cannot serve as an excuse, because not one of the documents says you have done it right. All of them consider that irregularities have been committed and that there has been a splash. But it's not all over here. After the award new reports have arrived, the nightmare of mismanagement already goes beyond the first process. The last bomb is that also during the provision of the service irregularities continue, that there are invoices that do not know what they pay and that they are paid to companies that do not know what they do there. And neither do I, says the Anti-Fraud Office. And all this is too much. With all this on the table, it can't be that they keep saying they think they've done everything right. And, of course, with all this on the table, what is amazing is that you continue to defend the mantra that the great solution is that you manage everything. But, well, what we now want to know is what consequences all of this can have for the public arks and for the treasury of the Generalitat. How and how much can it affect us? And it's not out of curiosity, and it's not to recreate us on it, it's on the contrary: it's to see if there's any measure we can take, to see if we can break this curse of generating problems and let them pass until the next one arrives, and until the next one has no choice but to make a decision that laments, as happened, already in his day, with the hole that had to be covered. With this motivation, which we believe can be shared by all groups, this motion arises, which goes in line with the previous ones and complements the appearances that we have also requested, some of them I think we will have to update the one because there have been new appointments. The amendments that have been tabled pointed to this motivation and, of course, we have accepted them with pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.64.0	Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word the lady Hortènsia Grau, of Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.65.0	Thank you, President. Well, I hope that between the motions approved in the past plenary, between the proposition of law that gives us a framework where we can work and this today, we can be a time without talking, at least, about this topic and working. I think that... well, first of all, I want to thank Mrs. Marina Bravo, from Ciutadans, for the acceptance of the papers, and not just the acceptance, but the transactions that we have been able to make, which, moreover, I think are much better the text, are better the transactions that she has proposed than the text that I originally submitted. And I think this is one of the virtues of parliamentarianism or representative democracy, now that it is so much in question, and I think this is one of its virtues, right? , that, if everyone has anything to put themselves there, then they can improve the text. Well, the questioner of Ciutadan's motion is one thing that we should be in favor of, among other things, because, with some matisses or with others, we have already asked for it with the motion of 2013, April, and with the last – remember – July 2015 – those who are veterans – in the debate that we held in this chamber. And, therefore, logically, we had to agree. What we do..., is that we appreciate a point of addition that we have incorporated, that seemed important to us, and that we believe that it should include, that it was – and we already did – that it should ask the Union of Accounts that in this report, what was going on with the interpretative clause, with the famous interpretative resolution – that one, isn't it? , that of the card –; why? Because in the event that the judgments given by the High Court of Justice of Catalonia are to be executed, the Court of Justice of Catalonia declares the nullity of the agreement of the award of the contract at the height of ATLL, of course, the interpretative resolution of 5 July 2013 which sees it being said that..., it goes to the concessionaire: "Look, it is not worrying, because, if, in the end, there is nullity of the contract, and, therefore, there is no compensation, that there is only the return of the advanced money, we, the Government, is to say, with money from all the citizens and the citizens, we will also indemnify so that we apply clause 51 of the rule of law, that the ruling of the Court of Justice, by way of which it is stated, is to the extent that the decision of the Court of Justice of Catalonia, is to be applied, by the Court of Justice of Catalonia, the Court of Justice of Catalonia, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of Catalonia, the Court of Justice of Catalonia, the Court of the Court of Catalonia, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, is to the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, is to be concerned, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, by the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Clearly, that's very different, it changes a lot, because if you apply this, that the Administration compensates, is to say, with public money, we would also have to pay for the damages and damages that are arrogated to it, or so on, for future benefits that this company could have had. For this reason, in this framework, we consider it very important that, since this academic study is to be carried out, it should also be studied what it entails, what this interpretative resolution entails. And finally, it seems important to us that we have accepted the compromise that we could make at point 5, because, if at the end of this expedient information that was voted two weeks ago, with the CUP's motion, it turns out that it gives reason to the Anti-Fraud Office's report, and it can be detected that there are alleged criminal activities, here I believe that the Administration has to be a person, as we have said other times, and that we have to vote, or continue, to the Anti-Fraud Commission..., to the Commission, well, an anti-fraud; I think that here it has to be a person, it has to set an example to the Administration and it has to be a person. And, finally, I think it will be on the mark..., if we all have the will to solve this problem, it must be on the mark of law where we can resolve all these questions, but I think that, in parallel, it would not be much more than we asked two weeks ago, it is to say: we look if it really interests the Generality to desist from the cassation resources, to make an interim execution of the sentences..., and to recover the public management of the ATLL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.66.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.67.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, we will support this motion presented by the Ciutadan Group because it seems timely to us and because it will also help us to have more data, if not the opinion of the Government, in the face of the debate in committee, in parliamentary office, that will be made of the proposal of the law of the Socialist Party that was approved yesterday, that this chamber approved the debate. I repeat again some of the arguments that I have already put forward at the length of the sessions in which we discussed this topic. For us, this privatization, the most important that the Generalitat, of Aigues Ter Llobregat, has made, holds on to a thread from the first moment. Listen, our opinion is that there have been irregular procedures, which, besides, have gone wrong, and still managed worse, huh? You let 'em get one thing wrong, Mrs. Bravo, huh? because I've pulled the hemerotec from the beginning of the procedure, and, of course, it's not that it's done wrong, no: there's a certain intention to respect this concession. It's that the former government's ex-historic advisor, Mr. Mas-Colell, said..., then they noticed that they couldn't do it, because there were European subsidies, but even if they wanted to sell the infrastructure. Adviser Mas-Colell's statements. We again insist that in all the administrative and judicial proceedings of this concession, not only the administrative bodies, the props of the Generalitat, and the judicial authorities, but also in one reason, or in the matters of grounds, or in the matters of procedure, have given the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia the right. We also know, and we already knew, because in your own parliament, too, it had already been mentioned, and the Anti-Fraud Office's report ended up covering it, that the investment calendar that the same concession had been set had not been completed. In fact, from the moment the concession began to walk, they have only invested around 5,6_million euros. Therefore, here it will also be interesting to know if the calendar has been incomplete by indications from the Government, if in view of the nature of the future of this concession the concessionaire has put the hand to encourage the investment calendar to which it had been committed, right? Also when we analyze the financial figures of the operation we see that the financial remuneration is off the market; we are at an interest rate of 9.33_percent of the remuneration to the dealership. We believe that this does not fit the type of financial remuneration that we have in the country's financial sector at this time. We believe that this different canon that was agreed for fifty years... the dealership, except for the first payment, did not perform any more, surely aware of the fragility of this concession. Nor have we had a clear answer – I hope that with the answer that..., the compliment they make of the young man in having a clear answer – respect the taxes that the concessionaire had to pay. We don't have any sign of it. Well, the signals are in a bad way, that no transmission fee has been paid. It will also be interesting to know who are the reasons that explain to him the fact that since the Territorial Councillor it has been denied to this Parliament to know some of the payments denounced for the Anti-Fraud Office; from the answer of the former Territorial Councillor it is said that he did not get married, and, man, since February 26, 2014, nine months before they recognized, they had indications that things had been done badly. We think we have the opportunity to keep moving, I repeat. The parliamentary debate will be a good time. And we are convinced that the resolution of this conflict will not cause us to fall upon the country by the plagues of Egypt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.68.0	The words of Mr Santi Rodríguez of the People's Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.69.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen... to position our group in relation to this motion of the Ciutadans Group. They will allow me, cordially and sincerely, to begin by congratulating the Citizens' Group on this initiative. To congratulate them because in previous legislatures the Citizens' Group was characterized by literally copying the initiatives of other parliamentary groups, and, in this case, we see that you are evolving: you no longer copy them literally, you copy the objective, you change the words and the same initiatives appear, which seems to us to be a very positive development; it is even likely that you will soon have your own opinion, which is very much to be thanked in a parliamentary group like yours. Having said that..., I would perfectly justify it..., because we are talking about two concrete points of the motion, which are the points number 2 and number 4, which are the same idea and the same command that appears in the motion 160 of the draft legislature, which we discussed in this hemisphere, in this chamber, in November 2014. As was also a proposal from our parliamentary group, so you will understand perfectly that we also support this initiative, which is repeated in relation to this which I have already mentioned. And the news you bring, so this young man is basically two. One, the first point, in relation to the paper of the Autonomous Agency of Contractual Resources, which certainly does not make any investigation, but what it does is solve an appeal filed for a company. And we have no problem, too, giving support to it so that it is explained by writing everything that, along these three years that lasts this series, has been explained repeatedly by members of the Government in relation to that report of the Administrative Agency of Contractual Resources. Yes, there is a novelty, which we consider to be important, of which we have already done something, of which we have also taken some other initiative, which is in relation to the report, but of an investigation by the Anti-Fraud Office; report that we consider and consider..., the Government I believe that it is still in time, to try to give the explanations of what has happened and whether there has actually been or has not been a bad practice on the part of the award of this concession. We have our own idea about what has happened, but we believe that what is genuinely uplifting would be that it was the government that said, "Listen, this has happened to me, this has happened to me; this is whether or not it fits when leaving on conditions and therefore we will have to or will not act. And that's what we're still waiting for, on the government's part, to explain and tell us, and end up with some concrete conclusion. Obviously, for what it does to the evaluation of the scenes of this award, it is a petition already repeated by this chamber on different occasions, and the fact of providing the necessary resources to deal with the situation that may become the fruit of the judicial remedies that exist at this time in the march is also a petition that is repeated in this young man. Therefore, this motion will have the support of our parliamentary group. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.70.0	Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.71.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. We have already..., the position of the CUP - Constituent Creed is more than known about this issue and it has to rotate over three essential ideas: ATLL has to be made public, ATLL has to be made public as quickly as possible and ATLL has to be made public as quickly as possible at the lowest cost for the city council and for the generality's heritage. This young man, more than a young man, is a request for documentation that could have been channeled for many other lives; he chose to do so through the young man, we have no inconvenience, we will give him support and, therefore, the feeling of our vote will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.72.0	Next is the words of Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.73.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... in any case, let me start thanking Mrs. Bravo for her willingness to talk about this young man. We did not present him with any kind of message because, in any case, we had already proposed to give him initial support, as was proposed, but we knew that some transactions had been entered into with some other parliamentary groups. We talked to the Ciutadans Group to adjust some of these transactions, and I need to recognize, and therefore I would like to thank him for the predisposition so that we could agree to all the papers a text. I insist: we have not already presented papers in this motion because we share the experience, the need for transparency and also the letter, in any case, what is said, the concrete elements of the proposal. It seems to me that this government has given enough of a show of transparency. Counselor Rull has made a commitment in his parliamentary office to compare as many times as is necessary to give explanations of this topic. Mr Santi Rodríguez asked for explanations. It seems to me that in any case the government has already offered itself enough, they have answered questions. She was pointing out to Mrs. Grau that it's a recurring debate in this chamber. Therefore, it is the most important element that we seem to have. That is to say, that there is transparency, that there is parliamentary control over this issue. It seems to me that the elements that are planted are totally acceptable. And, therefore, this is what we're going to support. U, the circumstance of the signature of the contract, despite the opposition of the OARCC. That's why there's been a sequence of appearances, but it's never more. The subject of the analysis of the scene according to the Supreme Court's resolution. This is the way we have chosen, and – pointing also at the line given by Mr. Salellas, at the lowest possible cost, public recovery at the lowest possible cost – what seems to us to be waiting for this feeling. Therefore, we also like his attitude in the sense of saying: "We don't cream the naus before, we wait, we get to see who are the different scenes we have..., and so it will allow us to pull forward. The subject of the analysis of the scene that takes place from the report of the Antifrau Office seems important to us. Mrs. Grau, let me give you an explanation, which yesterday was not possible because the Table did not give me the word, and in any case I wanted to answer it. Taking advantage of the fact that this is the same debate, you would ask us firmly with the information document that the government has opened with respect to irregularities. You said to me, "Tell us what you'll do. We can't say, the government won't be able to tell what it will do with this freight forwarder, beyond opening a freight forwarder, to analyze what the situation is and, from the contradictions with the company and from the departure of the cloisters, to see what is the resolution that corresponds. Not another thing. If the government anticipates any response before doing all of this administered process, this only has a word, which is prevarication. And, therefore, this way he won't get in. What you're talking about... if you want a firm compromise, the firmest compromise is that the government has immediately opened a process, an information dispatcher, about alleged irregularities. I leave'mfer a little emphasis on the subject of the report of the Antifrau Office. We insist: we understand that the government has acted in a pre-emptive manner. In other words, the government does not act on the report, it does not act on the basis of this report, but rather acts on the basis of it. At the time that the December 2014 is aware of a follow-up of irregularities, we understand that the company has acted wrongly, and at the time that it is asked to the ACA to be able to make a follow-up of management the ACA does not authorize it, and from here the issue ends. And this is much earlier – this is much earlier – than the Anti-Fraud Office report. Therefore, from this point of view it seems to us that there has been due diligence on the part of the Government in the performance of any irregularities that may be there. It also seems important to us to analyze what the precautionary measures mean and, finally, this proposal for a character. And this is the theme that we have come to deal with, profiling the language that was used: the character of the Government of the Generality to defend public interests in any element. In this, in the water, but also in any other element public interest is at stake. We understand that the Government of the Generality has to act to defend the interests of citizens and citizens. And, therefore, from this point of view, I insist, we will continue to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.74.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Marina Bravo, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.75.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, on the amendments, just repeat what I had already said. Thanking the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot's proposals, which enrich the text; thank you also for the flexibility in being able to participate in the dialogue with other groups so that we could put forward the objective of the motion, which was to obtain information that would be useful to everyone, before any manifesto or reflection of a text that in the end is no longer useful. I should also like to thank those groups that have not tabled amendments to convey to us their concerns and their interest that this could go ahead rather than simply oppose it. On the comments that have been made, the CUP told us that this could be resolved with a request for information. Requests for information, we had already done before. Of one of the points indicated here, the answer was simply that such information was not available. Because of the fact that many of these aspects require an analysis that is not available, a job needs to be done. And as for the comments made by the PP, I suppose he'll have seen in the hemeroteca that not only was his motion. There were also some of our same dates, that same year. And yes: it is, in part, a repetition, because that did not come forward, and, in part, an update including many data that have appeared after that moment. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.76.0	Call it a vote. Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.77.0	The word twenty-seconds for direct allusions, President, of Mr. Sanglas. Twenty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.78.0	Let's start with yesterday, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.79.0	No, no, don't start with yesterday. [[Rialles.]] Well, since he took advantage of his return today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.80.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all Thirty seconds. I'm giving them thirty.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.81.0	Thirty seconds. Mr. Sanglas, do not answer me in terms of procedural management or administrative management. Clearly, I will never tell the government that I will prevail; of course, that the dispatch must have a resolution. I was asking him at the political level. Do they fly or don't they? It is their political will or not, that ATLL returned to public management. I mean, it's just... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.82.0	Mr. Sanglas, why ask me the word. For allusions, isn't it? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.83.0	Allusions, huh? , and by illusions, too, of Mrs. Hortênsia Grau. Mrs. Hortènsia Grau, I seem to have clearly challenged you. The will is that things are good. Willingness, and that is why we give full support to this young man, is that there is transparency in any public bidding process, and as long as we clarify any shadow of doubt. And that's why we support it. We're acting, and this... is also insisting, therefore, on the dispatch of information... to clarify any irregularities that may exist in this management and in this departure from the clauses. Therefore, the political compromise that things are doing well. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.84.0	The vote begins. The result is 131 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the prerogatives of some policies]] [[302-00011/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on the prerogatives of some policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. There's a word from Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.85.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we are going to talk about political issues today. And the title is certainly the prerogatives of politicians. But we are not talking about the prerogatives of politicians by talking about the prerogatives of politicians. We speak..., because this matters to citizens, because citizens distrust politicians who surround themselves and shield themselves with prerogatives and prebendas. And that is why, in these times when politics is very discredited, it is because those parties that we have come to politics to renew and regenerate it we have to propose things that restore the confidence of citizens in politics. Because we don't talk about the outbursts for talking about outbursts, that whether a politician should be tried in the High Court of Justice or not. We don't talk about this for talking. We speak..., because the fact that politicians go to the High Court of Justice to be tried blurs the impartiality of justice, makes citizens suspect that politicians have a different nature than those of the world to be tried. And we don't want this to be the case. And to talk about political outbursts..., which, by the way, we are not only talking about in this Chamber, but about what we talked about, very recently, in the Congress of Deputies, with our forty Members already proposing in the Congress of Deputies and for all of Spain that this change be addressed, and it is one of the issues that has also been the subject of pacts with the Socialist Party, so we will start now, and I believe that in the votes that we are going to have today, a new era in the questions of political outbursts, and it is going to be, this new era, of course, thanks to Ciutadans. Let us, and we also want, depoliticize justice. Because we have already said in our previous speech that we cannot tolerate those judges who are appointed by the autonomous assemblies or by the Congress being those who then have to judge the people who have been beaten. These communicating vessels cannot be tolerated. And that is why we have in the motion a resolution in support of the depoliticization of justice. We also have a point in the motion concerning the abolition of the privileges of the Cap de l'oposició. And we are proud to do so, precisely from the position that would allow us to accept these privileges of the Cap de l'oposició, which we expressly renounce. We give up the economic benefits, and we give up the advisors, and we give up the treatment, because we believe that the opposition leaders are already enough because they have been given it by the ballot boxes, without having to have these privileges too. And we have driven it by being the leaders of the opposition that we might have taken advantage of these privileges. We also have here and will vote today on the compatibility of public activities. We do not want public offices to have more than one public office. We need to talk about this and we need to renew it. And it has also been introduced, at the request of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, here..., that I will then refer to the amendments that have significantly improved the text in the last round, I will refer to all of them, but here we have also introduced incompatibilities with private activities. Nor do we want him to have been charged with politics, and we are going to vote for this. Also, the abolition of the office of the President of the Generalitat, and here I wanted to mention the following: we do not want the dignity of the posts to be removed, it seems to us that a President of the Generalitat remains former President of the Generalitat and that he has a proper and dignified pension for tomorrow. What we don't feel right is that it costs us the expression, his office, like the one we had in the walk of Gracia, and the parking spaces, and the secretary, and the driver, that will cost us half a million euros to all citizens. The dignity of the presidents of the Generalitat, of the former presidents, is preserved with all the offices, all the officials and all the means that the Generalitat continues to have, without the need to make ostentatious expenses. Here, I am afraid we will have a little more trouble to be voted on by one of the groups. And finally, now, we will also vote today that the groups in this Chamber recognize that the pardon for corruption crimes cannot continue to be made in Spain. And with this..., then I will already refer in the last three-minute shift to the amendments tabled. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.86.0	To defend the papers presented, the words of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.87.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Vice-President, Members and Members; well, first of all I find that the whole of the House is in line with the initial tone of Mr Carrizosa's intervention, which I must say that we have not just fully shared. Also say that the whole of the young man himself is, to a certain extent, let's say, a little demanding. It is stated that there is only one of the points that the Government of the Generality urges to do something, that it is a relatively curious thing after an inquiry to an adviser of the Generality. In the end and in the end, what makes the motion, and it doesn't seem bad, and that is why we will give support to most of its content, is to find the need to introduce certain changes, to declare that it would be necessary to proceed to a debate on certain issues, etc. And obviously, so, we're already in favor. In addition, in most cases there are questions about competitions that, in any case, are state-level and I am sure that the General Courts will have initiatives in this sense. There's one, too, that has to do with our skills, isn't there? , which is the question of reviewing compatibility with public and private activities. It is a debate that arose, in fact, with the approval of the compatibility of Members and Members in one of the first sessions held by this Parliament, and that has given a place that there is at last, already, some legislative initiatives registered around this issue. For what it does to the question of outings, it is true that there has been an important public debate around this question. It is true, too, that the institution of the exportation was born with a certain purpose, and that I think it is worth reflecting on the background of the purpose that was proposed, but it is also true that our country has managed to produce a certain anomaly in its extension and in its applications, in its uses, and is not, to put it mildly, a figure that is completely harmonized with other European countries. For what it does to the question of the appointment of members of the General Council of the Judiciary or of the Constitutional Court, absolutely agree to rethink the mechanisms and to review, therefore, what are the results produced by certain or other mechanisms of election. Now, when we reflect on what the motion invites us to do, we make it complete, because what would be strange is that in a system with separation of powers, at least formally, there is one of the powers that you are completely left with and without mechanism of weights and counterweights with the other two powers, the execution and the legislature, especially this later, which, in the end and in the end, is what citizenship represents. There are possible mechanisms. It's all known... – perhaps it's what we're most familiar with, or that's because of this phenomenon of culture that promotes American series and films – there's the possibility of choosing the members of the judiciary, even from the same court, passing through each of the levels, but it's not free of difficulties and problems, this type of election mechanism. From the outset, there are relatively privileged sectors of society that have information and the will to participate in these types of processes, and, if not, there are interest groups that are very much in favour of choosing one judge and not another, etc. And if we do reflect, we do it complete, and not just deconstructing the model we already know, but exploring what are, also, the problems of other possible models. For what you do to the question..., and I am centered on one of which we are against, because you have here made an explanation about the question of the offices of the expressionists and that you are not against the dignity of the figure of the expressionist, etcetera. But, of course, they present a literal editorial that what they do is say that it is suppressing economic and personal media intended for the offices of the expressionists. And we are perfectly open to rethink, let us say, the way in which an administered support is given, etcetera, to the offices of the expressionists, so that they are more economical, if necessary, but we are not in absolute favour of suppressing it and, therefore, we will vote against it. For what it does to the rest of the questions, we have seen that there is a possibility of agreement between different groups around the writing of these points, and we look good and we will support it. Let me just make one last reference to the question of indult. It is true that, as we presented it, in part refers to eliminating the possibility of indult respect other questions that are not directly related, let's say, to political corruption, but I think that one day we will also have to reflect on the fact that it is impossible to forgive questions relating to crimes against humanity, genocide, etc.; that we hope we will never have anyone prosecuted for this, but I need to review it, huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.88.0	He then has the word, to defend the papers presented, Mr Joan Coscubiela, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.89.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Carrizosa, I must be very honest with you, we didn't like your inquiry. To talk about policy privileges in general – in general – and, in addition, you are out of the focus of policies is still a lot of doubt. And it's a good thing you've raised a consensus motion with us, because if we have to vote for the explanation you've made today, then we wouldn't vote. But, well, we'll be deaf, we'll look at exactly what's written and we'll vote for it. And I want to try to explain why, because I think we are before a much deeper issue than these policy privileges, we are before the need to address a deep element of democratic regeneration. And your inquiry and the motion that you presented is a curious thing, because you ask the Government of the Generality and then you ask things, or that it affects the sphere of the State, or that they are commitments of the combination of political forces, with which it might have been done, you ask the Catalan Government, or be a little more demanding at the time of demanding things. But we're also moving from points to points before this topic because we don't want, from the beginning, that this was interpreted as not being sensitive to a topic on which we're working a lot and a lot to achieve changing the current reality. That said, and this explanation of background, let me tell you something. We would have liked a lot more from this issue of the General Council of the Judiciary, not from this young man. I believe that, from the point of view, it can be located in the apartment, or the moon, of policy privileges. We have a very clear problem with the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. The problem is not that the political representatives of the citizenry to the legislature can intervene, the problem is that, so far, there has been no type of mechanism to prevent the partisan colonization of the General Council of the Judiciary. Support for policy or support for corporate groups within the judicial career, and you know it very well, because the distribution that many times is about certain hearings, certain higher courts of justice, has more to do with the corporate interests of these groups than with anything else. We would not have liked it, but, since you are dealing with it, thanks to the message put forward by the Socialist compromise group, it seems good to us. On the subject of afforestations. Home, it was a little curious, in your young lady, that you proposed to cancel the outages of Catalans, of Catalan public bodies, and not of everyone. Because, of course, we in Catalonia can find that the charges that depend on the Catalan institutions are not far away and, in change, some charges of the General Administration of the State in Catalonia, yes. Well, we've arranged it through a thread that you've accepted, that we've been laying down, but let's just say that, man, we've been snooping, snooping, seeing where your Spanish proposal was to end the outflows of the Spanish state joint in the agreement that you signed with the Socialist Party and, or it's very attached – very attached, very attached, very attached – and I didn't know how to find it, but if you said the place, I'll look for it and rectify it. But I can assure you that I have two days reading it, reading it, reading it, and not appearing at all. I mean, come on, let's go through this, too. On the issue of corruption agreements, we fully agree that an element needs to be placed. We set up a very short time ago what Mr. Rossell referred to, and we are very happy that Mr. President Puigdemont, after saying, "We will do things when we do them, two weeks after we do them. I think something has to do with the question that our President Lluís Rabell was asking in this respect. But you, like others, with the issue of corruption are oblivious to one thing: that more than corrupt policies, there are corruptors, and if it is – if it is will – act in truth against political corruption, that is to act against corruptors. Because, if not, the only one who will make the corrupters will be changed as a political client. « This one we leave out of the game and I'm going to get another one. That's why we've raised a topic that you don't step back and ask him to reconsider a little bit more, which is how it works to prevent the corrupters from continuing to benefit from the possibility of contracting with the Public Administration, which is the space from which all their benefits are obtained in a criminal way. And with regard to the figure of the head of the opposition, look, we abstained from this setting, because we disagree with what you set up. We would be much more in agreement with what we have raised, which is the disappearance of the figure of the head of the opposition. It does not feel with the current configuration of the Catalan political panorama. What's wrong with the opposition? Mr. Junqueras, who was the head of the opposition and who turned out to support all the government's policies? What's changed with Mr. Junqueras? So, that before consensus politics from the opposition and now consensus from the Presidency of the Government. And what do you mean, that Mrs. Inés Arrimadas is doing the opposite? Fan of the opposition when they discuss the national rights of Catalonia, but, in change, when they discuss economic issues you share, for example, the European Stability Pact, they share Liberal Group in the European Parliament. Or you, the opposition leader, in some things, yes, in others, no. In others they are more opposed, with other fears, other groups of this chamber. Therefore, we propose the disappearance of the figure of the head of the opposition. And I just told him, from this perspective, that we don't like the layout you're making with regard to the offices of the expressionists either. About the expressionists one day we're going to argue in this room, because I think when this figure was created it was thinking that there was one, two expressionists, but not that we would have this overbooking of expressionists. Exploiting resources, yes, rationalizing them well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.90.0	Mr. Coscubala, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.91.0	...but discuss them in depth, too. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.92.0	In order to defend the papers presented, Mrs. Esperanza García has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.93.0	Thank you, President. See, seeing the motion that Citizens have tabled today, the truth is that, from the People's Party, we are very surprised because to renounce in this case to be the second that from an autonomous community we promote or try to promote the suppression of the outbursts for elected and political positions, and to do so in second place, after Mrs Cifuentes, in the Madrid Community, has already promoted it, to us it seems that we do not marry, at all, with that media, pseudopoetic phrase that you repeat wherever you go – tertulia, Faristol and the media – that says "impossible" is just an opinion. Let us see, let us see if what is difficult for you becomes impossible, because from the People's Party, in the amendments we have tabled, what we ask of you, and you have not wanted to take the glove, is that the outbursts on the Catalan political posts are completely abolished. And you have decided to say no directly. And yet I have to thank you from the People's Party for accepting one of our amendments, which is precisely what Mr Coscubiela is so upset about, isn't it? , which is to abolish the material and economic means intended for the office of the former Presidents of the Generalitat. Let me tell you one thing, because corruption is a sufficiently broad and indeed lethal term to undermine citizens' confidence in our institutions. And that requires not to be anchored, and not to be anchored in party interests, on newspaper covers, or national electoral strategies of the party, but that requires seriousness and commitment. From the People's Party we understand that it is difficult, but not impossible. Let's see if the phrase you repeat so much has just been believed and put into practice. The suffocation of Catalan public offices, it is true, requires certain legal changes that are certainly complicated, such as the modification of the Statute, but it can be. And you can also make the commitment on the part of the political parties – a proposal that we have made to you and that you have also rejected – not to include in your lists those who were convicted, discharged, convicted or with a criminal record. And I ask you: how is it possible for you to say no to that, when from these institutions, and not from others, our officials are required – I give the example: to officials of the Administration of Justice, a simple judicial agent, or even to people who are engaged in the private exercise of the legal profession – who do not have a criminal record, because that prevents them from dedicating themselves to the legal sphere and exercising their profession? Well, how will it be less in the case of being public managers? Are they so afraid to accept this proposal? We have coincided with you many times, in many votes, in which the Government of the Generalitat has a mania, a kind of totem, irrefutable, of always trying to regulate beyond its powers, generating conflicts, judicializing Catalan political life. But it's just that you, now that it looks like you have the bench just sticked to the gentlemen of Junts for Yes, it looks like you've become infected. You are proposing that from here, from this autonomous Parliament, we be affected by what is the Organic Law of the Judiciary, both the appointment of members who may be part of our courts and other matters. I'll ask you one thing. The People's Party is going to vote in favour of this; this is going to go to the committee of study in favour of regeneration and against corruption. I ask you to be brave and not to stick to your pact with the Socialist Party in Madrid. Nor have we found that point to which you refer and which you have included in the motions amended and fucked by the Socialist Party in this motion. Don't let them dictate the points of their motions. Talk, dialogue and endorse your tweets, please. You have been saying for days that no party in this parliamentary chamber was in favour of suppressing the outbursts. And you're right, because we're the only ones who are in favor of suppressing them, and you don't think it's convenient. I hope that in that committee you will be able to share with us that need, both that of suppression and that of the impossibility of people convicted and with a criminal record being representatives of the Catalan people, and that in the end the fight against corruption will not remain in a simple pamphlet or electoral slogan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.94.0	The words of Mr. David Bonvehí, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.95.0	Good morning, Counselor. Counselor, deputies, deputies, we live the times we live in, and the people of the street, the people of the outside, ask for measures to regain confidence in our institutions as well as in us, who are their representatives. And, therefore, from here, from Juntes for the Yes, we see well the proposal made to us by Citizens about the paper, to adopt a series of measures of different meaning, but also, as other parliamentary groups have said, we were more pleased with what we have seen written that the intervention did not occur. But, in any case, I think that with the soul that led us to agree most of the motion, so I will explain our voting position. It's also a bit curious that most of the proposals you make seem to be being made here in Catalonia and not in Spain. See if you have also come to the conclusion that here things can change more quickly and can change more positively than the rest of the Spanish State. And, therefore, we would find ourselves curious, but we would like you to come to this conclusion, too, that it is worth more, so that we can do it here quickly, and that with the new state that we will surely get to what you also want and want, we will get there before we do it from here, only from here, and not through the State, that we are not sure that you will go much further a little bit and I don't know if you will ever get there. In any case, starting at the first point of the outages, when we read the first draft of the motion we were surprised by a little being so categorical: "Remove all outages of all Catalan political bodies. In any case, after that, they see the deal that came up, I think it's an assimitable proposal for everyone, I think it's a proposal that you say is that we agree to review the system of donations and that all this is going to be discussed by the Committee on the Study of Measures to Fight Corruption in this Parliament, and therefore we understand that making a statement to the full in this sense was not adjective. We understand that we need to review it, we need to discuss it, and we are sure that all groups will share, so we need to make a review of the outages. And why do we think it's necessary, this review of the outages? So, because basically this is an institution that at the moment offers many questions and contradictions and, therefore, it needs to re-establish its meaning within a political and social context that demands the values of transparency, equality, regeneration and, above all, trust in democratic institutions. These questions about escapes are varied. There are many studies that have dealt with it, but I would say that there are three or four elements that we need to rethink. One is that most European countries, so the outages are much more restricted than here, than in the Spanish State, and I therefore believe that this should make us think. It must also make us think that it is not the same thing that the inviolability or immunity of the elected bodies, which sometimes try to confuse themselves. I think it's also sometimes presented as a certain privilege and sometimes it could also be understood that this is the opposite, since there is a limitation of not being able to go to the second instance. And then there's also a topic that's gone out, that's that outages on the part of someone think they can quit, and that's not clear either. All these questions mean that we, therefore, see that these issues are discussed in this committee, and we are sure that we will reach agreement on all parliamentary groups. In the second place, we will give support as it is written, since we firmly believe that the Spanish State does have, therefore, politicized justice. On the third point, you focus on some of the rights that appear... from the head of the opposition of this Parliament. We don't see it inconvenient, either, to give it support. On the other hand, we see it inconvenient to give support to the fifth point, with which you try to suppress the offices of the Generality's representatives. We believe that what you're trying to do is take institutional replete to this figure that we think is important. And then you also seem to be oblivious to eight months ago here we had a broad debate, a debate where we were all there, in that for most parliamentary groups, and led by Mr Bosch, at that time, of the Initiative, so I think it has come to a very broad consensus and in which what we have done is to establish a regime of incompatibilities of expressions and transparency measures, which I believe the current rule in the Law of Expressions is more than reasonable. We'll give support to the quarter point. The sixth point would have liked us better, therefore, another type of drafting, because we understand that the committee on corruption in the previous parliamentary term indicated better that all parliamentary groups had to agree at what point a person had to stop being a deputy or have to be elected. But in any case, so, the proposal that is made, we see that it is not unbridled. And at point seven, which is an incorporation for the subject of pardons, we will also support it. All the more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.96.0	Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Parliamentary Group Candidate of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.97.0	Good morning. There's not much left to add. We're the last ones. In any case, I do coincide with some interventions. With the intervention of Mr. Carrizosa in the inquiry, and today in the plenary itself, it might seem that we were approving something that I really wanted to see reset to the democratic system – pseudo-democratic for us – which is what could actually help the citizens to regain this lost confidence, this disaffection, also said Mr. Carrizosa in the inquiry. And the truth is we don't watch any reset; we watch a short change check sooner. We believe that all those people who called "don't represent us," or those who called "no bread for so much chorizo," expected something more than a simple makeup operation on some concrete aspects, and therefore, in this sense, therefore, we are obviously on another line of work. But the young lady, anyway, is yours. It's also not that they've been especially there, despite the fact that the groups now seem to be claiming it. And we shall stand, therefore, with respect to what you have planted. With regard to the expansion, and to explain a little bit, because the feeling is that the citizenry probably doesn't know much about the expansion and it can be imagined that it's a whole system of privileges for policy, and it's a mere alteration of the general principle for which other citizens who don't have this status recognized, so they're judged by different courts. The question is why this figure exists. And some spokesman said: "In other countries of democratic tradition there are no outposts. They've been studying their review. Yeah, yeah, he's fine. But why are there outages here? Where does the judicial system in force in the Spanish State come from? Is there a break with the Franco regime? Are there changes in the judges and magistrates who were operating in the Franco regime? It must not be that those artifices of the Transition, aware that it would not be a break with a fascist regime, believed it was opportune to provide some specific guarantees to the representatives of the people, that obviously the adherents to the Franco dictatorship were not favorable that there were elections and that there were elected ones? Mustn't it be that they were very concerned that the French judges and magistrates were judging elected officials? I think the motive is this. And the Reformers of the Transition wanted to shield these elected representatives with some guarantees. Therefore, the criticism, we believe in the judicial system in its conjunction; a judicial system that did not break with the Franco regime, that the same judges and magistrates who condemned to death, who repressed workers, who undertook trade unionists, then continued to operate with total impunity. We also find that there is an inquiry into another violation of this general principle of being tried by the same court as the rest in the case of the National Court, which also alters the general principle of being tried by the court that answers you. "Ah, but in the National Audience there are the independenceists, there are those who question the monarchy! And that's a reset. And how that doesn't reset and control changes, so the National Audience, obviously, we don't question it. Nor do we question the Spanish Penal Code and these majorities, therefore, which have been supporting it so far, and the deep repressive and class character of the Spanish judicial and penal system. That would also go to the origin of problems and to the rearrangement of problems. Because I believe that citizenship, more than being concerned– you, that you always have the virtue of questioning the deep concerns of citizenship... – because of the question of outlaws, you are concerned about the character of class justice, that it does affect them, because the majority of the population cannot support the prerogatives that the Millets and the four-hundred great families, that are not outlawed, but that it is obvious that justice, for them, is not the same as for the citizen who does not have this material condition and this belonging to a certain social class. Therefore, we would prefer to go to the scene of the problem and address the question of the class justice that prevails. Of course, we would not object to a debate being held in relation to outsiders, nor would we object to a debate being held in relation to the compatibility of the posts or private sector of the workers of this Parliament, of the Members. Nor will we object to discussing naming issues; but not namings linked to legislative chambers... Let's say who is the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, to whom you attribute, in any case, the prerogative to like certain investigations linked to corruption? Who names the prosecutor in chief? What does the prosecutor have to do with the government? It would also be very interesting to go to the scene and what is expected of the prosecution in this country. And, finally, I think that what we're recommending is that you go more to the origin of the problems; that we're talking about corruption, not just related to political issues; that Mr. Amancio Ortega, although it's legal what he does, is also a corrupt, because it's absolutely corrupt to be the second person. [[some applause]] Richer than the world exploiting the world's rearing workers. Political fire, stop staring at the courts; political fire, accept that we self-determine ourselves and no longer go to the courts for this issue, and political fire and understand that political prisoners in the Spanish State deserve to go out in the streets. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.98.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.99.0	Thank you, Madam President. I'll go too fast because if I don't, it won't give me time. To thank each and every one of the groups in Parliament for their cooperation and their contributions and amendments, which have certainly improved the text. Well, and there's something that everyone will have to recognize: the subject has been raised by Citizens. We are told, "Well, there are hardly any things here," said Mr Pedret, "that we can discuss in Parliament." For look, there are seven points, and four of them are to be discussed precisely in Parliament; two of them are to be discussed in the Congress of Deputies – the question of the General Council of the Judiciary, the question of pardons – and one of them affects all the Catalan parties, which is the pact not to admit people accused on lists. Therefore, what has been achieved here is that we have not entered the norm by norm already to modify the ones, but we have laid the foundations that all the parties that are present here, and that vote in favour of this..., give their acquiescence to deal with these issues from the positive perspective of ending these privileges, which was the title of our motion. To answer very briefly to Mr Coscubiela, of Catalunya Yes that is Pot. Mr Coscubiela, two days searching in the pact with the Socialist Party and you have not found the stumbling blocks? Look, page 65, it's here. [[Some applause.]] This you have to take the PDF, put « search and then put « drills and you will get all the words of « drills. Mrs. Esperanza García... Mrs. Esperanza García, well, first of all, we're not the..., we're not the government and you're the opposition yet, huh? It's just that you've treated us..., you've focused all your intervention on us, you've been very proud that Mrs Cifuentes is promoting in the Madrid Assembly the cessation of the fighting, and that's thanks to the fact that we've entered Citizens to open the windows a little bit [[some applause]] In the Madrid Assembly, which you already needed, you already needed a lot. And bravery does not tell us whether or not we miss those of Citizens, bravery is also when, for example, I think, a king tells someone: « Presents you as a candidate, accept it, for example. [[Some applause.]] Mr Bonvehí, also thank you for accepting our..., for voting in favour of the first one, as announced by the Councillor, who was to be debated at last in this Chamber on the subject of drilling, which is a statutory issue, of the Statute of Catalonia, and that, therefore, we do not find enough consensus to undertake this amendment, which is serious, because it is of the Catalan fundamental law, which has only the Constitution, but that is why we will start this debate. And finally, Mrs.Anna Gabriel, neither Spain is a pseudo-democratic system nor the National Audience go independenceists. At the National Court there are crimes of terrorism and those who participate in crimes..., who are active members of armed gangs, of terrorist groups, are going to be tried at the National Court. [[Some applause.]] Also in Spain there are no political prisoners, in Spain there are convicted for belonging to the armed gang. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.100.0	Call it a vote. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.101.0	Mr Carrizosa, I thank you for your illustration, but please note that in the text I have, paragraph..., sheet 65 speaks of constitutional reform. No wonder. On that pact there are so many versions that you have one, the Socialist Party has another, I have another..., in any case, the issue of the parliaments did not come out yesterday, it is quite likely, but in any case, it would have been better if you had raised from the outset that the outbursts that should have disappeared were those of all the public and institutional offices, not just the Catalans. By the way, I don't know why I'm talking to you in the castle right now, I'm sorry. [[Rialles and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.102.0	Mrs. Eva Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.103.0	To ask for a separate vote on the five-point, Madam President. Point 5, separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.104.0	Do you ask point 5, separate vote? All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.105.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.106.0	Mrs. Anna Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.107.0	To ask, please, President, separate vote from item 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.108.0	Two. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.109.0	For Mr. Coscubala's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.110.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.111.0	Thank you. Mr Coscubiela, look, I have to put on my glasses, sixty_y_five: "Suppression... [[Widow's remorse.]] It is in Spanish, because it was with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party: "Suppression of the suffocation of deputies, senators. It's here, on page 65, huh? So, now I'll give it to you, so you can have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.112.0	They've asked... [[Widow's remorse.]] One moment... separate votes have been asked for from point 2 and point 5. So now we're going to start by voting point 2, after 5 and after the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote on point 2 begins. It was approved by 121 votes in favour, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5. The vote begins. It was rejected by 35 votes to 85, with 10 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me: 34 votes in favour, 86 against and 10 abstentions. So, she's been turned down. We'll vote for the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions and no votes against. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into historical memory, symbolology and Faixist nomenclature to public space]] [[302-000012/11]] The next item on the agenda is the motion following the question to the Government on historical memory, symbolology and the Faixist nomenclature to public space, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cree. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Mireia Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.113.0	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, President. Let me start with a five-death court in Gasteiz's murder, for the police. We've had forty years of unpunished murders, when there are bells in the dead. I'll call again because you're both dead, you're a working class. [[Greetings.]] A_second recórd, that we already inherited it ager, your ship hours and forty minutes deth 2 of March deth 74, Salvador Puig Antich dies executed even was brutal technique deth garrot vile ena prisen Model de Barcelona. I'm still being executed, murdered by the Franco regime in this country. We shall take this action, and we shall be able to ask for justice, forty or two years later. We are not going to resign ourselves now to injustice, because we do not break it, because we have memory, and because we want to recover, it was our dignity. For all you want torture, you want fights, you want bad that we have been Francois, for so many people you won't rest in wonder where he buried you are uncle, you are father, you are great father. And it is profitable to greet the representatives of deth Banc d'DNA of Catalonia, who are here and we accompany aué. Still, it is institutions that have not had enough work in the past preservation of historical memory and was worthy of the victims of this fascism and Francoism. And we consider that this is the cause that cannot be allowed, and therefore you have heard of this motion and work in order to solve the problem that we have. We are institutions and we are looking for public policies of memory then we are not even complicit in the survival of this Francoism, of this fascism, yet we are today. Aué, aguest Parliament will take a step in the right direction when it was institutionalization of the past, when it was institutionalization of the present impunity. Now, there was an opportunity for this memory of what kind of state structure, because I am, and because it has to be on a national construction road that we're all just starting. In the first place, in a motion, what we wanted to get back was the power of this institution to have a historical memory, which I am the Democratic Memorial. We want to equip him with the public policies of memory that follow from all of us, from all of us, and from a leadership that he has lost in recent years. To this international institution, to this present in all the territories, and then to this ask, laguens of this motion, and to this impulse of memory space, that you already exist, as long as I broke down and I did not travel. In the second place, it was a motion about political reprisals and sociaus. It is a cause such as the immediate persecution of those responsible for the crimes and tortures that are perpetuated by the Franco era. Tomorrow was the annulment of illegal, illegitimate lawsuits. Tomorrow was an identification of the thousands and thousands of disappearances. It must be that if it is taken, that the map of hiccups and repressive loci is finished, then it must be given, then it must be possible to honor, by a full-fledged body, our dead as a caus, for so many families, that they may return to them years later. Finally, it was a motion that you will drink from a daily sociological franchise in public spaces, a franchise that you still present in many of the assemblies of this country and that you cannot afford. Still on the plan of loci, carts, squares, dambology, damb nomenclature, damb fascist monuments that are to be removed, and it seems lied that forty-one years after the death of this dictator, eth dictator half-old of all Europa, we can still find no sign of an alert Francoism in those places that we are more like. For this reason, it was a motion that must be completed and hundreds of Francos who are starting the Democratic Memorial; ask all of them to withdraw immediately following the protocols established in the Catalan universities, and to auorinate all of them dead, tortured and retaliated that have not been autonomous yet. We were longing for the vast majority of people to open up before we were ashamed of ourselves, then we were never ashamed of our Madeishi before, when it was our memory and it was our inaction that we are now in trouble... so that we appear, and, from a point of view for all, it is the country that is in need of those who have disappeared.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.114.0	To defend the papers presented, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.115.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Vice-President, Members and Members, and also the promoters of the public DNA bank and of the memorialistic entities that accompany us today, I have to begin by thanking the predisposition of the CUP Group - Cree are to agree to respect them, I understand that many, statements that we have presented to you from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, not so much for a question of disagreement on the grounds that we wanted to bring, in which, I believe, it is possible to include them later, in the vote, that we fully agree, but because there were questions, perhaps technical, perhaps in the matter of matter, that we wanted to bring, and we welcome that some have been able to include them; others have granted them to other groups, and in some cases to present your texts. But this is something that happens from time to time in parliamentary life. Mirin, in order not to end up with a bad taste of mouth, I will start by saying those questions in which we regret that it has not been possible to finish hearing us. In the first place, we liked a support a little more explicit to the creation of a public DNA bank, as, in fact, you were carrying in your original text and it was later written differently with the transaction to which you have legitimately arrived, with the Group of Joints for the Yes, and a more explicit support to existing initiatives; therefore, we claim that this Parliament has already voted on two occasions, one of them with Motion 69/X, which I believe is worth continuing to demand. Secondly, regret that we do not ask..., we lose the opportunity, let's say, to ask for the reform of Law 52/2007 to adapt it to the recommendations of the report of the United Nations Forced Disappearances Committee. It is true that it is a state law – there we will already have the opportunity to do so – but this Parliament continues to have the tradition of reflecting on debates that can be brought to other chambers. In fact, we have, at last, legislative initiative in the matter. Tell them, too, that we have not just heard why in the 5th section you condition a whole series of actions around the Democratic Memorial, with which we agree, to the priorities in public policies that are set in the approval of the 2016 assumptions. Because they tell us that they are ill-advised, but they know how we know the responsibilities of government and the actions of the groups that supported the government in the past legislature, it seems to us that this is an extension without the concrete measures that we agree with you. So, let's hope it's not that way, let's hope that the stability agreement they have signed with Juntes for Yes makes it easier for them to influence the presuppositional debate and these issues aren't caught up – we want, let's say, to make this act of trust – but we invite them to be very alert. We will be. But in order not to extend into questions of what we disagree, I have to say that there is one of the transactions that I want to thank them especially, and it is that which refers to the modification of the Law on Localization and Identification of Disappeared Persons during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, and the dignification of the common pits, so, among other aspects, to prioritize and facilitate the opening of the pits and the exhumation and identification of human remains. Despite the many good intentions contained in the Catalan law on the pits, it is certain that we have found enormous difficulties in being able to open, exhume, identify and return, in the end, the remains of so many people still resting in the camp and on the wishes of the roads of our country to their families and to those people who want them to be honored. And, therefore, I think it's a lot to celebrate that today we're going to have to make this change, that in any case, we're going to have to proceed further. All right, all right, Mirin, in memory questions, as in many others, what is to preside over us is the motto that so many organizations fighting to avoid the repetition of crimes against humanity, repeat here and in the wake of the world: "Truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition; I want to insist as much as possible on all these aspects: "Truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. And let us not forget that those who work in the field of conflict management, of the culture of the pau, say that all society needs so many years to refer to a conflict as the conflict has lasted. If the calculation is based on the moment when the Franco dictatorship ended, we will see how it is true that there are still many things to do today, many aspects to deal with, so that we can say that we have really overcome all aspects of that terrible civil war and that terrible dictatorship. Therefore, honor and memory to the victims of Francoism, now and always.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.116.0	Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.117.0	Thank you, President. First of all, we would like to thank the "democratic effort not to answer any emails to the CUP group, nor to answer any of the petitions that we have made because we were sent as the text remained; we have other companies that have informed us. For a party that understands the history in a dialectical way, it is still very simple, absolutely simple: the lower and the higher, the pure and virginal veil of the proletariat before the dark maneuvers of the forces of capital. In short, it's all summed up in a very simple fight between fexists and anti-fexists. But it's funny, because those who defend the simplicity of history turn out to act in a slightly more sinister way; for example, they make the president of the Generality a person from a party who voted for labor reform and voted for the Law of Presupposition. And you will say to us: "Home, there are more things; there are more things: more than the social question, there is the national question. But, listen, weren't we left that the birth was a bourgeois superstructure to alienate the consciences of the proletariat? He said: "No, no, no; no, listen, it's that they're two caretakers of the same coin, it's that things are a little more complex. So, here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it's where I want to go: things, in the present and in the past, are a little more complex than a fight between fetishists and anti-fessists. And, if not, I recommend them – it's very simple – read, for example, Orwell's Homenatge in Catalonia. Or, for example, I don't know Andreu Nin who thought it was the bexists. Well, I do know that, but maybe he thought someone else had been behaving in a fascist way, too. Or Garcia Oliver's memoirs, when he explains that his goal was to destabilize the Republic because there was a shot of the right and thus proclaim... Yes, say yes; indeed, things are a little more complex. Today, as we've done other times... and they can take a picture, they can take a picture at the vote, because every time they go out and accuse us of not looking at the picture, and looking at it all. Today we condemn fascism and condemn the Franco dictatorship as we have condemned all dictatorships. I don't know if you with authoritarian rules always do the same. [[Some applause.]] The one I can't accept... And we will condemn him, we will condemn him completely. But what I can't accept, among other things, because I've spent four years of my life reading the Republic's newspapers in Barcelona and reading Workers Solidarity – a perfect diary, which is a wonder of style, a lot more clever and unravel in its expression – is that you tell me that everyone here was a cry for democracy. I can't accept it. And, if they want to share a lot of quotes later, you find it in this diary, which explains what they thought of democracy. Now it turns out that those who want to change it all are refugees in the past. And it reminds me a little of Mrs. Ada Colau, a coward in front of the capital, that what she does is open up debates 'culturets to store her cowardice in front of the phactic powers. And we will vote for a lot of things in favour of this young man, and we will vote for it because it is logical that in a democratic society there is a canon of democratic public memory; it is logical: the public memory must also reflect the shared values in a social conjunction. But, listen, this has to have a certain sense of the limit, so how far do we pay to evaluate ourselves with democratic criteria? Is that to say, are we taking all the emblems of the Generality so that in the 15th century I can support the oligarchies before the Catalan page? Do we have to remove all those monuments or references from those historical periods linked to feudalism or absolutism? It's just that we'd be with the last 30 years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we want democratic memory, yes, but we do not turn memory into an idol that nullifies rigour and historical criticism. Democratic memory, yes; monolithic memory, no. Democratic memory, yes; absolutism of memory over history, no. And they're taking pictures of what we're voting on today, applying the lesson to other votes that we're going to put to this Parliament of other questions, because we're always going to put the Mirall on them to see exactly that... sometimes in the doctor's house, the knife. [[Some applause and remorse of voices.]] In the blacksmith's house, stick knife, indeed. [[Someone said, "Cuchara. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.118.0	The words of Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.119.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Forty years ago, in the city of Vitòria, in the city of Zaramaga, in the church of Sant Francesc d'Assis, in an assembly of workers and workers, the French police killed five companies. Forty years ago today, and this Parliament is worth remembering. Shortly after this assassination, a man named Lluís Llach wrote and sang: "Assassins, murderers of reason and of life, who never have rest in your day and who in death pursue our memories. Today, Lluís, you can continue singing; these words are still necessary. [[Greetings.]] Our parliamentary group shares the content and experience of the motion presented to us by the Constituent CUP. So much so that we have already communicated to them that we withdraw the two items that we have submitted to the text so that there is no doubt about our agreement with this. The argument that we are having affects two questions. The first: in the Spanish State, the four years of absolute majority of the People's Party have meant a real involvement in democratic memory. The Government of the People's Party, the absolute majority of the People's Party, has de facto frozen the deployment of the Law of Historical Memory, and, moreover, there is still today a connivance of the People's Party with the symbolism and relation of the franchise. This has to be made clear; the United Nations has told us, and today there are Catalan and Spanish citizens who have to go to Argentina to seek justice, because they do not find it in these lands, and so we are, they say, a democracy of the 21st century. But, too, we have another background problem. In Catalonia, the last five years, the governments of Convergence and Union have forgotten the democratic memory. And this has happened not only as a consequence of the presuppositional decreases; we will not make blood of the reasons that motivated this oblivion. And, on the other hand, if we want to say that we have a new government now, we have a new councillor, we have a new director general, and we are convinced..., and they will have our support if this new government and this new councillor mean a new policy of democratic memory: to take back the momentum that at some point the Government of Catalonia did have on issues of democratic memory. They deserve those who are alive, who are still many, sometimes very great and cost them to walk, but, friends and friends, they owe it to whom they are no longer, to whom they have left us and to whom they have left the best of their life and the best of their youth because today, this Parliament, democratically, is able to gather. Aim for memory and viscose our dead! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.120.0	The words of Ms. Montserrat Palau, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.121.0	President, with your permission, I will share the time of my speech with the words, also, of the Member Meritxell Borràs, of my group. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ouch! Forgive me, Meritxell Roigé. We have so many Merits who have been confused. Puig Antich, the still unpunished assassination of Puig Antich; the facts of Vitória have been forgotten; we could, for example, point out the agreement of this very Parliament, of 2009, of the review of the Lluís Company process, still pending and unanswered. Therefore, this young man is useful, relevant, because he is the need, the need we have of the historical memory, and also, consequently, of the condemnation of fascism and Francoism. Discussing memory and oblivion is also an act of justice. Last week Umberto Eco died, a great... a humanist savi. And just in a 2002 joint volume that's said..., the joint title is Why remember? , Umberto Eco wrote, exactly, that the memory is and is known to be the main source of identity, both the individual and the collective. And that's the memory you're telling us because we're who we are. And with this memory, to recover our memory silenced by force we have a way already used, but in change, also a lot of way to do. As we have already done the papers, as we have negotiated, we are very much in agreement with this motion which has many and various points, which obviously should still be increased, but we would simply want to focus, for example, on the points of internationalization of the Democratic Memorial; on the points of formation and information directed from the Teaching Department because our channel..., our children and children are the future and need to know; or above all, as has been done, in so many families that have people, or that we have people, missing; or that more than 4,600 are still looking for them and trying to push the project of genetic DNA identification. And in this case, we can't waste any more time; it's an urgent matter, because we need to collect samples from the people who are still alive. As I said, we are very much in agreement with all of the points of this motion because, ultimately, memory is an act of will and we have the opportunity and, also, the duty, to preserve our historical memory. It's our responsibility and it's justice. They owe us. And they owe it to so many humiliated and unjustly convicted people. And they owe it to the nine generations to live freely. Now, as you all know, we are a group, a heterogeneous and diverse candidacy. And in some of the points, then, we don't totally agree. And in this sense, and to speak of a concrete point of the motion, gift, or I leave the word to Congresswoman Meritxell – in this case yes – I asked. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.122.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I am speaking at this point, like tortoise, as the first mayor's lieutenant, obviously, but also on behalf of those of our group, of those members of this room who also claim local autonomy and who believe that we also have the right to decide. Those of us who are voting today condemn all forms of fascism and agree with everything this young man says, except at this point in time we're going to explain it to you, because I would like to contextualize it and explain what we're talking about. The monument to the battle of the Ebre will make fifty years that is in the middle of the river, in Tortosa, and until now nothing has been done. And I want to remember: governments of the left, governments of the Initiative, mayors of the Initiative and mayors of the Socialist Party. Now, fifty years later, the Municipal Government of Convergence with the support of Esquerra Republicana we have decided to make a consultation; a consultation that we have assumed, a consultation that is going to make the next month of June. And now some of us here in Parliament don't want this consultation done. And they didn't do it alone, they did it with the support of Initiative, of the Socialist Party. One-twenty-one registrars agree that this consultation is being made. And so we brought it to our program. And that doesn't mean we want to tend or not tend the monument there. I just need to say what the point says, and the point that we are told is that it is shown against what is done no query. And, in this sense, I would like to say the words that Germà Bel, also Hebrew, told us: "I have always been against the monument and I am in favour of passing this monument. But what I'm against is that you don't allow a consultation, because there won't be a new republic, there won't be a new state if we don't understand the bases, we don't settle on the bases of local autonomy. That is why we are voting against deleting this reference. And if it is not accepted by some, it is perhaps because there is fear of democracy, fear that the people of Tortosa decide what they want to do with the monument. Because here I would also like to end by calling on the mayors and governors of this chamber, to local autonomy: we cannot allow ourselves to attack local autonomy as it is attacking, in this way. So what we're defending is what they say about twenty-one directors. Because when it is said for some that I do not consult and that we must make the law complete, it reminds me of what we are told, day by day, from the government of the State. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.123.0	Next, has the word Mr. Sergio Sanz, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.124.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Ciutadans we think that having memory is essential to learn the lesson that history teaches and to prevent the repetition of monsters that are capable of producing human beings when they lose their humanity. Without mitifying it, memory serves to have alerts activated to preserve democracy. And in that sense, before this motion, we will again express, as we have always done, that we condemn Francoism and any form of fascism and totalitarianism. And we'll do it whenever it takes. We therefore ratified the condemnation of a regime that prevented the exercise of the freedom and democracy of the Spaniards for almost forty years. Almost forty years of dictatorship and repression that we condemn. Just as we condemn anyone who intends or has intended to establish a political regime through fear, coercion, violence and humiliation of their victims and opponents. We also believe that, in order to defend the democracy enshrined in the Constitution, we must also reject the exaltation of the dictatorship, its symbols and the concentrations that can be made in tribute to it and its figures. For that reason, we agree with all the paragraphs in this motion which refer to questions relating to fascist symbolism and nomenclature. We regret, however, that none of our amendments, which sought to clarify and improve the text, have been incorporated, and that, on the other hand, the question of the monument of Tortosa has not been clarified outside this Parliament, on the basis of technical and scientific criteria announced in some aspects of the motion. Memory must also lead us to honor and compensate the victims, so the powers and public servants must give support to the families who try to recover the bodies and memory of their loved ones. In that regard, they will have our full support. This leads us to vote in favour of the points in paragraph 6, although we regret that our amendment to point 6(b) was not accepted, in which we proposed not only to call for the annulment of the illegitimate processes of Francoism, but also to take legal action, the legal action necessary for that to happen. Nor did we want it to be limited to the Catalan victims, but to all of them. You have forgotten, you, the Spanish victims, the whole of Spain, and the foreigners, but since you are not of united workers of the world, but of separated workers of Spain, you may have something to do with this. [[Some applause.]] As for the measures of the Democratic Memorial, we, in its day, did not agree on how the Democratic Memorial was proposed, because we thought it lacked contents. However, we do agree with the contents of the memorial and, therefore, we will also support the measures announced in the motion on this issue. But, in addition, we think that democratic memory is broader than limiting it to a concrete stage in history. The democratic memory has to be broader, to highlight the virtues of democracy and, therefore, to prevent drifts that can lead us on undesirable paths. At this point, we would also have to talk about other victims of totalitarianism. I would like to mention a commemoration that is relevant at this time, which is the one that will take place on 11 March, European Day of Victims of Terrorism. I hope that we will coincide at that event, from the conviction that this commemoration is also timely to preserve democratic memory. Although, regrettably, I have some doubts that we will agree with the same intensity on this issue. I say this because I've seen some who sang for freedom, participate in tributes to people convicted of belonging to the armed gang. [[Some applause.]] So, that's not a good job either. It is not making a contribution to democracy. Because it is a terrorist gang that has left many victims; victims that among many of them are people who have been party partners who are in this chamber, people who have been friends of some deputies. And a Democrat cannot give encouragement to anyone who has belonged to such an organization; an organization that must be remembered, caused death in Hypercor, in Vic, Ernest Lluch, Francisco Cano..., many people who worked for democracy and that we would have to have also in memory. Because let's not forget that you have to have memory. If we condemn Francoism again today, it is because we know what democracy is, what freedom is. The exercise of memory should lead us, the public representatives here, to value the constitutional framework and the democratic institutions emanating from it, which we enjoy and for which we are here. Remember, honourable Members, that we have a democratic constitution; let us not despise this Constitution. We respect the rules, the laws, the democratic institutions, because they allow us to work for the well-being and progress of our society. Catalans know they can count on Ciutadans for it, I would honestly like...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.125.0	Mr. Sanz, I seem to have run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.126.0	...that we all work together to that end. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.127.0	Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word "Mrs. Mireia Boya", of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.128.0	That I'm not used as a precedent, but I'm going to answer in Catalan because that's why everyone's going to hear me a little better. I appreciate the complicity of the PSC and Juntes for the Yes because it has been very easy to accept and deal with the vast majority of the items that had been submitted, and I believe that the final text has been enriched with their contributions. I especially appreciate the support of Catalonia's companies Yes, it is Pot, because it is an exhibition of these bridges that we want to reach out to you. There are fears that we can work on folds and, therefore, wanted to say publicly..., thank you for the withdrawal of these papers for what it does to the issue of Tortosa. "Children's attitude," said the mayor of Tortosa, "centralism, and he told one who sees the Valley of Aran, which makes 350_kilometres every week to come here. We add "strangers," urban terrorists, to..., well, all these insults we're used to. For us, the insult is not a tribute to the thousands and thousands of dead to the battle of the Jew they claim to respect, to demand memory, that they start us to break with these philosophical attitudes that they have from the consistor of the capital, of Tortosa. [[Some applause.]] The transition has done a lot of damage, and it's obvious that this transition has picked up a lot of things. To us, to consult on the removal of Francoist monuments is an immense disproposal, it is a lack of respect for those who have been retaliated and killed in the battle of the Jews and it only proves that the sociological Francoism that is still present in your city. I can't say more than... that I'm ashamed of myself, I'm deeply ashamed that they don't pass this monument to the barbershop, that the one that commemorates is the twenty-five years of just a few victims, the victims of a bandol, everyone else stayed at the bottom of the river, stayed at the camp, stayed at the banks. That, that so horrific monument I continued there, the only thing he does is prove that we only care about a part of the dead and not all of them. Therefore, if you want to disguise it in consultation mode, do it, you can do it perfectly, but let them know that what you are saying is that they do not condemn the franchise. [[Widow's remorse.]] Sir... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Sánchez – now I turn to the other band –, look at the email – look at the email – because it does have them... Here, okay... I sent it... Well, in fi, it's lost, it'll be in unwanted mail, surely. [[Rialles.]] It is unfortunate – it is regrettable – every word that has come out of its mouth, it is an insult to democracy and it is part of this black Francoist night, which it is obvious that we still have in this hemisphere. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.129.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.130.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...separate votes, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.131.0	Separated from what?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.132.0	From the rest of the young man, if I may be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.133.0	Everything?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.134.0	I ask you, President, to vote separate from point 2, if possible, and from point five, and I ask you if it is possible, from point five, but only the statement of point five, not the subordinates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.135.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.136.0	Isn't that possible?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.137.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.138.0	So, point two.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.139.0	Point two and five, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.140.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.141.0	Okay. [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]] Mr. Millo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.142.0	President, to ask you, too, separate vote of some points, if I may. Yeah? To ask you, President, separate vote from point 2; also from point 5; also from point 8 and, concretely, a separate vote of 8.f– point 8.f – and, President, I would also like to ask you that before the vote on point 1 the Bureau proceed to its public reading, of point 1, before its vote. Thank you. [[Fernando Sánchez Costa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.143.0	Sanchez, it seems like he's asking for the word, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.144.0	Yes, by allusions, Madam President. He directly praised me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.145.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.146.0	Thank you. More than the insult, she couldn't give me a single argument to answer what I said, more, so it seems to me that very polite and even academic. If you want to start with a symposium on Homenage in Catalonia or Garcia Oliver's memoirs. On the subject of Tortosa, we will vote as Mr Ferran Bel, Member of Convergence, who I assume is one of the great representatives of the Feixism in Catalonia, of the party to which you have put the Presidency of the Government. [[Some applause. Joan Josep Nuet and Pujals ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.147.0	Mr. Nuet, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.148.0	Out of contradiction, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.149.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.150.0	Thank you. Yes, to clarify that no political parties forming Catalonia Yes, it is Pot has never held the mayor's office or ruled the city of Tortosa. Because if you had ruled or held the mayor, the Francoist monument would no longer exist. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.151.0	Mrs. Roigé... Mrs. Roigé, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.152.0	For allusions and contradictions. Therefore, first of all: Mayor of Initiative for Catalonia, Mr Joan Sabaté was mayor of the City of Initiative for Catalonia. (Applause.) Eight years of mayor, eight years of mayor until 2007, who lost the elections and entered to rule with Convergence and Union. So, a little respect and a little memory, huh? It was from 99 to 2007, two days ago, that's why, and at that time it never talked about the monument. At that time, the monument did not seem ill to the people of Initiative or to the people of the Socialist Party. At that time there was no mention of the monument, and now that this government has decided, and more with the support of its group, of the group where Initiative is, we have decided to make a decision, make a consultation, consult the citizens, today there are many people who are making demos, but you, in Tortosa, are voting in favour of making a consultation and bringing it to the electoral program; you and you, the Socialist Party and also the Catalonia Initiative. And besides, they defended it with all the firmness. And I'll tell Mrs Boya that we, the Convergence Group, the people we are here, the Germà Bel, who are also voting for this, will never tell us – they won't tell us – that we defend the Franco regime, they'll never tell us, neither this deputy nor any of those who are sitting here next to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.153.0	Mrs. Roigé, it seems to me that the thirty-seconds have already expired.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.154.0	And lastly, what we ask is that it is respect for the citizenship of Tortosa and that, therefore, it is respect for those twenty-one-regulators who want to see citizenship. Remember that the CUP has a registrar at the Tortosa Assembly. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.155.0	Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.156.0	To make a request to the Bureau, which before the vote on point 8.f, which has already been asked for a separate vote, a full reading is given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.157.0	Mr. Bel. (Whispering) As far as I'm concerned, I didn't hear you greet him, Mr. Bel. (Remorse of voice persists.) It seems to me you've alluded to it, but not in terms of being able to give it a place to a replica, huh? Looks like it. It doesn't seem like it– it looks like it doesn't. [[Widow's remorse.]] Apparently not. That's the answer, Mr. Bel. Mrs. Mireia Boya, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.158.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Roigé, I don't say, said the Synod of Greuges, said the Democratic Memorial, said a study that four Catalan universities have done – Girona's, the UB, Lleida's and Rovira's and Virgils' – said a question from Mr. Romeva that he asked to the European Union, Parliament, everyone says. Everyone recommends removing this atrocity from the river. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.159.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.160.0	Yes, Madam President. In order to ask for a separate vote, points 2 and 8f have already been said, but also points 5.b. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.161.0	See, it's the 5th we've been asked to vote separately from the whole point. Or so, we have asked for a separate vote for the 2nd point on 5th, 8th and 8th, and now you say 5.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.162.0	We would ask for the separate vote from, only, the party, since I was surprised that the separate vote of 8.f was allowed; if the vote of 8.f, 5.b, is allowed, right? Also, apart, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.163.0	All right, then. It looks like... yeah. First we have to start, second we have asked – it seems to me – the Lord Millo, that we get the point 1. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.164.0	"Point 1: Condemning all forms of fascism inclusive to the Franco dictatorship.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.165.0	The vote begins. We'll start by voting point two. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're stopping the vote. Start voting for point 1. The results of the vote are: 131 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against. Now we're going to vote point two. The results are: 82 votes in favour, 35 in favour and 14, no, sorry, 34 in favour and 15 abstentions. Now we vote on 5.b. The vote begins. The results are 97 votes in favour, 24 against and 10 abstentions. We shall now vote on the remainder of point 5, which we had also been asked to vote separately. The rest of point 5. The vote begins. The results are: 121 votes in favour, no votes against and 10 abstentions. Now we will vote on point 8.f, but before we read it, so it will read the secretary Mrs Anna Simó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.166.0	« To urge the Assembly of Tortosa to remove immediately the memorial monument from the battle of the Ebre located on the pillar of the ancient bridge of the Belt of Tortosa, without any consultation or delay, for its subsequent museum in a memory space, as indicated by the protocol elaborated for the Democratic Memorial.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-03-1002.167.0	Now we're voting point 8.f. The vote begins. The results are 43 votes in favour, 42 against and 46 abstentions. [[Some applause.]] Now we're voting point 8, the rest of point 8. The vote begins. 128 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Now we vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. 131 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Good morning, and the session's up.
