ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Question to the Government on the quality of employment]] [[300-00031/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the quality of employment presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To make the presentation, Mr. Pol Gibert has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, members of the Government; in this case, Mrs Bassa, in this chamber has been debated several times, even the short duration of the legislature, on the subject of the world of work and aspects related to this very same: equal pay, crisis of workers, employment services. Our group believes that, taking advantage of the fact that in a few weeks' time it is International Health Day at Work, we believe that this is a good time to denounce the ill working conditions of the workers and to put the focus on their consequences. The destruction of employment and the deterioration of working conditions has been the result sought for the work reform of 2012, which we all know. Then, antisocial measures were adopted like this, while we were talking about sanitation, education or dependence, both here and in Madrid. All of this seems to be in the past, after the presentation of the government board, where the president made a statement to the totality of these details, but this is an issue that we will deal with at some other time and that does not fall within the competence of this Member. With the entry into force of labour reform, what is precariousness in employment has been extended. Today, we find ourselves with more temporary contracts and each round of shorter contracts, in fact, eight of every new contracts are less than three months; with more part-time employment, and we all know that many of these contracts do not really reflect the working hours of workers; an increase in very important subcontractions; more false autonomies, and working days over the legal maximum and often unpaid. Moreover, it obviously reduced wages with a very significant wage devaluation in southern Europe. And all this brings us to a bust of working conditions, taking advantage of the dramatic situation that many citizens see. These days we find graphical examples at the press about these practical ones, such as the case of the co-operatives in Osona, or a job offer – ‘work to say it in some way' – of a hotel in Barcelona that said the following: ‘You are looking for a fellow of practices like public relations. High English, forty_hours a week, 350_euros per month more accommodation. Good presence and – he said – « he must laugh at the jokes that the customers make him and playful and ironic observations. These types of offerings, which can make a certain grace and which may seem like a joke, are running out, causing the occupation that is created to be of very low quality. In this context, it clearly assumes a devaluation of the conditions of safety and health in the work and entails an increase in the accidents at work. The pursuit of workers and workers has turned off their eyes to defend themselves from abuse, and puts their own salvation at risk. Data shows that occupational accidents have grown in Catalonia during the year 2015 in a very worrying way, but this is not an exclusive trend of this year, because accidents grow in the period 2012-2015. In the past few years they have been growing by around 6_per_cent for what it does in 2014 and 2015, but it is still more worrying the evolution that has suffered from the hardest accidents, which during the past year have increased almost 9_per_cent. In our opinion, this situation has to do with the least concern of companies in the provision of preventive means, already in human or material resources. Does the government agree on this diagnosis? And if so, what measures have been taken or are planned to be taken to prevent it? But we also find ourselves with another factor that affects the increase of accidents: a lower effectiveness of surveillance policies and inspection of the Department of Work. That is why we want to make this inquiry to the government, because it must be done more and better to combat a situation that affects the salvation and life of thousands of workers. We know they've put some action on the table, recently announced, and we'd like to keep it more concrete and more detailed. In addition, we consider that in order to design policies and actions to develop in the future, it would be necessary to count on social agents to improve the effectiveness of the actions. Is this the line they want to follow the government? Collaborate with the unions to address this saga affecting the labour market? If we analyze the context, moreover, we find a key element that predicts that the situation may worsen; all of us are aware that the people contracted temporarily are much more at risk of a work accident and, bearing in mind that the occupation that is being created is mostly temporary, we consider that it is urgently necessary to address this debate, for which it is already happening today and for which it can pass in the proper months if this trend is maintained. The left-handedness of eventuals has increased by 40_per_cent in two years, compared to 4_per_cent of fixed ones. We see clearly how the typhoon of accidents in Catalonia gets stuck the last few years for the most fragile part, the workers with a precarious situation. And it is that we have a labor market with contracts so short – so short – that many times are days or weeks and the first one that is evident in these contracts and in the work they develop is training in occupational risks. So, then, we face an infallible formula: more temporality, more accidents and harder. Besides, according to some trade union sources, real accident data could be higher, because there's an understatement of these. Many entrepreneurs do not want to declare these accidents because of complaints and the workers do not do so because of losing their jobs, as is obvious. On the other hand, there is one element that also affects the competitiveness of companies, which is that if we let the working conditions are degrading, we are allowing a disloyal competition between companies that do well and those that do badly. And this also creates a comparative burden in the business sector and it is also important to put it in the replenishment. That is why our group would like to know whether the Government has studied to what extent the accidents of labour affect each sector of production, since the sector clearly determines the degree of accident, we believe it would be important to have quality information on this subject. These days the government has announced that Labour Inspectorate has programmed about seven thousand security and safety actions. In addition, you, counsel, have announced that you will send cards to companies that have suffered more than five accidents, or more than one god in the case of plants of more than 250 workers. We consider that five accidents are a very high volume and that they must also be carried out with force in companies that have a smaller volume. Some experts consider that from two it would already be a sifra sufficient to act of offices. Therefore, we celebrate the beginning of this action, but we find it, for the time being, insufficient. Catalonia needs an inspection plan that goes to the scene of the problem and is exemplary for companies that do not dedicate the necessary resources to prevention. We need to act forcefully against the violation of labor rights, especially when we put workers' lives in danger. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.3.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there is the words of the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mrs. Dolors Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.4.0	Good morning. Thank you, President, and forgive all for the delay, which I had to come very justly, for the inclemencies of the time..., I have had a stint. Thank you, Mr Pol, for the inquiry, but above all for the data you have given us. Of course, I totally share his exposure, saying that it is true that the destruction of occupation, the precariousness of work, the downsizing of wages, the issue of false self-governments not so much, but also... it is still to be seen with two labor reforms: a labor reform that you know very well, that your group did many years ago in Madrid, and a subsequent reform, that it was the one that hurt most everyone and that is the last reform, that we have always said – and I believe that Together for Yes we brought it to the program – that it is a reform that we do not agree with, that there would be many parts that should be repealed and that, therefore, we would fight for it to be so. And so we exposed it and I made it clear at the meeting that there was a lot of time in Madrid, from the Labour Sector. We were different people, in that meeting, that we exposed that one of the great problems was this reform, that it had to change completely, that the work we wanted it to be sure, that the work we wanted it to be firm and that, therefore, we would be fighting and belleligant with this subject. Also, the answer – as you know or as you may know – was that a functioning government cannot touch absolutely anything at these times and that they expect that if there is the same government, to talk to it, it was said that it would talk and could change fears, but that, if there was another government, they were sure that it was derogatory. Therefore, this issue may be solved briefly if the government and you, from the state, can get there to be a government and, therefore, we are sure to resolve it quickly. The subject of false autonomies, which you said. You know we've put ourselves in, we'll explain. One of the hardest problems where there are false autonomies is in the cannic sector. One time the problems came to us – that they come from a long time ago, from the union side we knew them for a long time –, we said that we had to put ourselves in a cool place, we put ourselves in a media situation, in a situation of saying that we would do what we could. We called the unions; it is true that we called UGT and Commissions because they are the two majorities, we need to talk to the COS, which at these times is in some song escorts, and we talked to the three business organizations of the songs. We explained to them the problem from our side, in a joint table that I myself have put together, so the issue is a long time ago, last week, and we came to the conclusion that, since the parities have not been able to solve this issue, we would solve it by means of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Enterprise, holding joint meetings between employers and workers, so the employer and the trade union side, and seeking solutions. It's a long topic, it's a topic that's been going on for a long time... the Cooperatives Act allows them to do that. We don't have the option – and I am clearly saying this – of the Labour Inspectorate to enter it, because the regulation of cooperatives is that, while there are two assemblies in the year of workers and there are signs, it is correct; therefore, the false autonomes point to a cooperative, which sign with two assemblies in the year, and since the Labour Inspectorate there can be nothing. But we all know that reality is another. The group of entrepreneurs and employers acknowledged that in some companies there were difficulties and not in others; therefore, we can't tell the whole sector, but in some companies, and that they were willing to talk and, therefore, we took it forward. I said to the beginning, it won't be an easy issue, it won't be a matter that we solve in fifteen days, because I suppose there will be many meetings, but we have also posed ourselves. As for job offers, I can tell you what we can do. The job offers, from the SOC, which I think is the place where the job offers should be, we're working because that's what it is. With job creation data, according to the latest are positive. I said that I totally share what he said; let's just say that economic recovery is taking place, it's getting busy, and it's not the occupation that we would want. It's reduced the time, and that's true, and so we're not very happy. We've reduced our taxes, we've reduced the 500 000 barrier, but we have to destroy, as I said a few days ago, the barrier we have of precarious work, so we need more decent, quality and stable work, just like temporality: 58 percent of contracts have a duration of three months or less, but there's also some positive data, and these too can mark them. During 2015, practically 60_percent of the contracts signed were full-time, this did not happen in 2014 or 2013. At the latest EPA data, 87_percent of the employed are full-time, in the last quarter of 2015, and 80_percent have an indefinite contract. We all know that they are contracts that come from before, that they are not the ones of new creation; but it is also worth saying, that they exist. The measures and policies that need to be taken, we continue to do so; we have worked hard. We, with the Government, cannot force companies to use as a major the least lasting, nor as a full-time part-time. They have all the types of contracts available. We don't have competitions in this, the competitions are from the State. Every time we went to a Labour Sector meeting we asked that if we had the competitions, the job in Catalonia would be different. And what we can do is include or encourage better quality with social clauses in public procurement. And here we are also working. We're working together with the Department of Governance, and so, here too, they'll see what we're working for a while. The deployment of the AIC by means of the Labour Relations Board is also another topic that we will be working on; the concertation – as you said – with the unions, but not just with the unions: with the unions and employers, as it should be; it will be the concertation of strategies and the new model of occupation of the territory. I said we'd work there, we talked about it with them. So far we haven't been able to call the Labour Relations Council, because you know there was a conflict between the representation of employers. We've also been sitting here, and we've been firmly standing here, because we knew it would take a while to get the matter out, which has been brought to justice. The same people from the employer told us: "We don't want to decide anything, so you can't call the Labour Relations Council. We even called the SOC board one day; the same day they called us from the employer saying that they would challenge us all because the representation there was not good, because they had it legalized, and here we also wanted to put it firmly and we said: "While you don't come up with the issue of how the representation should be, the Department of Labour considers that 33_per_cent, 33_per_cent and 33_per_cent. Therefore, we have Fepime – therefore, the small and medium-sized company –, the small and medium-sized company of the big employer, and the big employer. So, this is the department's resolution, because, if not, we were stuck in all the themes of concertation, and we think that, for the next few months, we can't expect you to come out with a theme in court; or so, what we can't say is that we haven't worked, because in each of the difficulties we've encountered we've posed. Since the Labour Inspectorate is old for the compliment of labor regulations, as you know. At these times there are a hundred and two inspectors in Catalonia, plus fifty of the state, and she is also struggling for the labor fraud. We also worked for the Catalan minimum wage. We were the first, the department, to present a study that there was of the University of Barcelona and the Metropolitan Area on the influence of the minimum wage of a thousand euros and what influence it would have around the city of Barcelona and the metropolitan area; but at the same time, from the unions and with all the support of the Department, they are working in which influence would have a minimum wage of a thousand euros to the city and far from Barcelona, together with the Assembly of Barcelona. They've got all our support, we've been in some table they've been talking about, and they've pulled forward. In addition, we have brought the minimum wage of a thousand euros to the mouth of the people on the street. And we did it, too, by helping a day that was done, a week ago, by the employer, the first day that is done to a employer about the minimum wage of a thousand euros, that is done by the Pimec together with the Department of Treball, and where we were going to participate clearly and where the president made the statements that we made for a minimum wage of a thousand euros in Catalonia, and that, therefore, we would get everything that was possible, even though we know that we do not have any competence. Therefore, we are working on all these issues, we will work with the fourth interprofessional agreement of Catalonia, together with the unions and employers, with the labor relations that follow...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.5.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.6.0	Yes; with labour relations that are as best possible. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.7.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, there's the word Pol Gilbert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.8.0	Thank you, President. Leave me, counsel, to begin with a reflection, because, if I have not counted badly, I have asked you enough about Labour Inspection and you have devoted a few seconds, approximately, to the topic of Labour Inspection; therefore, I would like you to try to delve into this topic, which is on which today we want to focus the debate, especially with regard to labour transactions, right? Also, let's say that I don't see so clearly, let's say, the opposition of the group that supports the government on labor reform. In this Parliament, we have seen: first, we have members of the Government who voted in their favour, and second, we have seen division of the group that supports the Government on this issue. So let's just say that so clear, so clear is not Junts' position for Yes on this issue, right? Also, let me tell you that the government has and has had the full capacity to act to ensure the compliment of the regulations for which it does work conditions, both in the use of competitions transferred in the matter of inspection as well as in the framework of activities planned jointly with the State. Therefore, I believe that here there is a camp to run, a camp that only depends on us or largely on us and that we can do much more. Let me, too, quote some ideas. I believe that the work of the Labour Inspectorate must also be done in large companies, especially because we are aware that many times it acts in small mechanical workshops, for example, that it is a recurring sector, and that it also acts in this sense. But we're also going for the big prize, we're going to look where there's really a very important fraud. We want an inspection plan with indicators of follow-up, with clear objectives, concrete actions, with accountability, with specified resources, which we can follow and evaluate on time what we are doing. I would also like to refer to a specific case which we are also concerned about from the Socialist Group, which is the case with the follow-up of the compliment on reservations of disability quotas to special enterprises and work centres, which are currently not being completed, or which we have some suspicion that they may not be completed. They are collections that suffer from structural difficulties and that we are particularly concerned about, and it is a delicate issue but we want them to face from the Labour Inspectorate, because we believe that many times they do not talk about it but that it is important. So, I would advise you, too, that with a subject that today brings us here to Parliament, as is the subject of accidents at work, we try to focus on the subject, that apart from talking about facts of the day, that is very good and that we talk about it so many times, right? , and let us celebrate that they are still better than on other occasions, we try to talk about the issue before us today, because it is a topic that is not discussed in public many times, that we need this Parliament to have a decisive action and that we can face in the proper months. Because, if not, we're going to find news of how we found ourselves last month in which we were increasing or doubling work accidents, and we don't think it's good either for the country or for the workers, that we agree that we need to defend the layer and space. Therefore, he will advise, I pray you, that with his reply he can make a little more concrete in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.9.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the word "counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.10.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I'm gonna give him a headline, so he can say that thanks to you, the government, we're working. First of all, I'll tell you that I didn't say that we all said that we would repeal it; I said that I had been explaining it at the sectoral conference and that Together for Yes was going to repeal some of the articles, I didn't say everything, did I? So, I didn't say we're all the same and, obviously, each one thinks what it looks like. I'm going to give him a headline who I assume someone's done it, so that's why he can do it..., because today, even when we're done here, like the government, to everyone, in general. We're doing a reform, and we're doing a reform to the Labour Inspectorate, though we don't have any competition. You know we can't say we have more job inspectors. You know that at these times, in Catalonia, we have 102 inspectors of work and 16 qualified technicians; that we have 50 subinspectors, which, moreover, there are 50 inspectors of the State and 73 subinspectors who are working. We have a call for 8 persons inspectors in 2016, which was a call for 2014. As you know, the state calls take two years for the inspectors to arrive. How many of us have to have, from what the State allows us – therefore, it must also be made clear. There were no proposed 8 for 2014, that there will be 8 arriving now this 2016, plus 9 2017, also inspectors and sub-inspectors, and we have a public offer, which I suppose will arrive in 2018, of 18 inspectors, which was the maximum we could ask for, for the State. Therefore, all this would join the inspectors we have. But we don't have enough. And it's true that we don't have enough, because at the level of Europe one inspector plays for every – more or less – five or six thousand workers, and here in Catalonia, we consider that every wanderer we have to work more with Europe and not with Spain and not with the south. And, therefore, we make a bet, and we make a clear bet of doubling the name of qualified technicians. So, from the 28th on, World Day of Safety and Health at Work, I think that like Catalans we should also change it and ask that it was the day of salvation around the work, because many know that there are many problems of security, just like in other European countries, and the concept of physical, psychological and social factors, in health, in the concept "health and safety, there is no inclusion and, in change, around the work, as they have in Sweden, Germany and these places, there would be inclusion. So, let's double the enabled techniques, and from the 28th it will be when they do the transfer and the 1st will be, so that there will be separate enabled techniques that can make visits– or then, of the seven we go on to divide – and seven more techniques for management, dispatch processing, security advice and job safety. So what we're doing is doubling the number of personnel we've got in security and job safety at the Labour Inspectorate, and from the 1st of the month that we'll be doing it, and we'll be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.11.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on social policies]] [[300-00033/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on social policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To make the presentation has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.12.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, I want to start by greeting the people who accompany us in the public and who are representatives of Cocarmi and Cocarmi federations, such as Dincat, entities representing some 540,000 people with disabilities. According to the National Institute of Statistics, 9_per_cent of the population has some kind of disability. Mrs Consellera, in her appearance at the Committee on Social Affairs, where she explained the project for this legislature, she hardly went over points in terms of policies aimed at people with disabilities. We understand that in an appearance we have to deal with a lot of issues and that it does not give time to delve into any of them, and the reason for this inquiry is to try to give visibility to this sector of the population, especially vulnerable in the current context of crisis; that you, counsel, can let us know the objectives and actions of your department and, with the subsequent motion, can give and provide among all groups answers and solutions to the most pressing demands and needs of the group. If we do this now it is because we do not want to wait until the end of the legislature to make an assessment of the policies carried out, we do not want to have to ask the government if it has done everything possible, and we want to make sure that this group is going to be one of the priorities of its council. One issue of concern to the collective is that of pocket money left behind the co-payment of the services to the dependency. In May 2015, former Councilwoman Neus Munté was already talking about agreeing on the concept of pocket money, because she recognized the controversy that had generated the new order of co-payment, and it's been a year and it's still a topic. Dincat told us that this week the entities of the sector had to be called to propose an agreement on the money of free will or'money of dignity, as they called it, that we had to clarify issues that were not clear, such as transport or the dining room. Our question is whether they have already been able to meet and what model they have planned to guarantee this money of dignity, whether they are going to decree an uncompromising minimum. The next issue I wanted to address was the law on the promotion of personal autonomy. In his appearance he spoke of giving an impetus to the law of promoting personal autonomy as a state structure. You said that this 2016 will promote a participatory process of negotiation with parliamentary groups, with social entities, so that, once studied, a document can be drawn up that can be discussed in this Parliament. The case is that already two councillors before you talked about this law; in fact your predecessor, former Councillor Neus Munté, in October 2013, said textually in parliamentary office: "And when we talk about the new Catalan law of personal autonomy, we are working with experts. We have the actual cost data, the different financing modalities and how at different stages we can implement this new system and ensure its sustainability, with guiding principles that can really have its consequences, its effectiveness, dignity, autonomy, co-responsibility, quality of life, security, etc.. These statements make clear the progress of this project. In fact, almost a year later, in May 2014, experts were asked to present the preliminary draft of the law on personal autonomy and dependence before the Welfare Commission, to explain the content of the preliminary draft of this law. In May 2014 the request for the appearance is made, in July the request for the appearance is approved, and since the publication of the agreement of the application, on 14 July, the clue is lost. Can We Solve the Mystery? What has happened to that preliminary draft? And what was the mechanism for the participation of the draft expert commission? We have not heard anything about this until we have seen in your government plan, which you presented this Tuesday, that you want to promote the debate on this law. Its predecessor was very confident with the content of what had already been written in the preliminary draft. So we want to know what has happened; whether they have changed the model or are going to use that preliminary draft as a basis; in the case of a change of model, if they already have something ahead of them or the debate starts from scratch, and, if they continue with the previous model, if in that debate they are going to open up soon that mysterious preliminary draft. On the issue of updating the Social Services Portfolio, social entities ask us to review the current Social Services Portfolio in order to enhance all services and benefits that favor the personal autonomy of persons with disabilities. I'll give you an example. On April 13, Dincat appeared before the Commission of Social Afers. One of the things we were told was that a person with an intellectual disability in adult life does not have access to day care or residential services if they were not registered before 2012; that only children who leave school have been able to enter. They're talking about 650 people who could go in today but they're staying out, they're staying at home deteriorating themselves. And they themselves told us that it is not a one-hundred-per-cent economic issue, that it was a matter of sitting down and changing models, with services made to suit the person. In your appearance, you spoke of reshaping the Social Services Portfolio, which we are all happy about at the time, but last week something happened that left me bewildered and I would like to take this opportunity to clarify exactly what the Government's position on this issue is. The last session of the Committee on Social Affairs voted on a proposal from the Socialist Party on the updating of the Social Services Portfolio and the ratios to new social needs, a portfolio of services that has not been touched since 2012, a portfolio of social services that, as indicated by the spokesman for the People's Party, emanates from a Catalan law, the Law on Social Services, and has a quadrennial validity. This proposal was adopted despite the vote against its parliamentary group. And the argument of your parliamentary group was that you did not just agree that now is the time to update the Service Portfolio, because this takes a lot of time and it takes a lot of participation. And our questions are about the need to clarify this issue: when will it go well for you to update this portfolio, how much time you need to update the, what will happen in the meantime with the people who are staying out and whether you are going to update this Social Services Portfolio or you are going to start to disregard Catalan laws as well, because when the CUP urges you to disobey them I don't think they refer to these laws specifically. The adaptation of Catalan legislation to the UN Convention. December will mark the tenth anniversary of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was held in New York on 13 December 2006. This convention was a turning point in the recognition and exercise of persons with disabilities. It assumes the phenomenon of disability as a human rights issue and provides for both non-discrimination and positive action measures to be implemented by States to guarantee the rights of this collective on equal terms with others. As a result, all sectoral or cross-cutting rules affecting persons with disabilities must be adapted. The incorporation of the international convention into Spanish law was reinforced by Act No. 26/2011 of 1 August 2011 on regulatory adaptation to that convention. This legal text states that the normative adaptation of the convention will be developed without prejudice to the competences of the autonomous communities, as is the case with Catalonia; that is, the competence is ours. The very passage of the years by legislation and its rules of development, which in many cases predates the convention, makes it necessary to adapt terminology and principles to the convention. In this regard, we have a great and scrupulous report on the impact of this international convention on our legislation, carried out by Cocarmi. On the basis of this study, there is already a lot of advanced work, and we cannot put the excuse for budgetary availability, because all these adjustments do not necessarily entail an economic cost and those that do require them do not entail significant economic costs either, but propose changes in concept and organisation that would allow the optimisation of resources. Our question is whether such an adaptation to international law has been envisaged and, if so, how and what time frame they intend to do so, and whether the collective's proposal to transpose the convention with a cross-cutting law will be taken into account. And finally, in the government plan they have announced the constitution of the Council of Disability of Catalonia, the Codiscat, but this council has been approved for more than a year and has never been constituted; specifically it was created in a decree of November 2014. In view of this, our question is whether you consider this advice useful and necessary, because to your predecessor it seems not, because at no time was it formed, and here I transfer the concern of the entities: when will you call, more or less, this body that should be a meeting point, a reconstruction of the rights of persons with disabilities and their needs? These are some of the issues that concern the collective and that you in your appearance who inaugurated as a counselor could not address or deepen in it, and we trust that today you can reassure these more than five hundred thousand citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.13.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then there is the words of the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mrs. Pain Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mrs Naomi, for all the information you have given us and, above all, for the requests you make to the same adviser on this subject. I'm sure we share the two, like all the other people here, that we want to build an inclusive society, that we don't exclosure differences, that we're respectful of diversity and that we're telling everyone the skills you have, they understand that we're all different, because we all want to be the same, but we're all the same with some differences. Therefore, for an independent life, for an integrated and participative life in society, that this is possible for all the collectivists and for everyone. A society that guarantees equal conditions and opportunities and that, as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities says, promotes, protects and ensures full enjoyment and equal conditions of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with disabilities, promoting respect for life, their dignity, which is inherent in any life. We need to remove the barriers that make this inclusive and this participation of people with disabilities difficult, and we are already working. We must ensure that Catalonia is a country where everyone lives better, with a better welfare state, where everyone can feel represented. And these will be the priorities that will carry us through this whole legislature; priorities that I try to know first-hand – and I want to greet the people with whom we have met before, too, to talk about these issues–, to know the tasks and challenges they have. To tell you..., during these days I have met personally and we have met as the department, so, with entities like Dincat, and it seems to me that we have already had three meetings with them; we have met with Ecom, with the ONCE, with the Catalan Down Syndrome Foundation, with Learning, with Openness, with Fesoca, with Aspanin, with Esclam and with Asperger Association of Catalonia, but not only because I come to the department to explain it, but I myself have gone or where I am working or where I work, or where I have my own. Therefore, the contact is permanent and continues with the sector. Plus, with Cocarmi, who said, we've also met, and tomorrow we have a meeting with the president, too, to explain to him all the problems they see, the difficulties they have and I fully share. We have the issues of social protection, as I said. Promotion of personal autonomy and social integration with disabilities is paramount. That's why we're in two lines. For a band, we are creating the Catalan agency of social protection. It will be an effective tool, because, apart from keeping the map of the well-structured social services, we will have this agency that will allow each person to know exactly who the services are, who the services they have, and we will pass that it was a general direction like anyone else to hold it as the agency, and we will get it through this legislature itself, and we are already working. Moreover, as you said, beyond the law of promotion of personal autonomy, we will continue the debate, because it is not easy. There are things that I suppose the last legislature had said; the last legislature is the last legislature, we are in a new legislature. There are some things we think they should be different, and therefore, we lack more debate and, above all, more participation from the entities so that we can pull this law forward. We have spoken to them, we have spoken to them and we will promote this participation highly, apart from the appearances of the last legislature, which obviously we will listen to and assume as our own. We will constitute the Council of Disability of Catalonia. We haven't talked to the entities yet. It will, of course, be between the own two-months and the entities, in particular Dincat, we had asked that, before making the council – we would explain it and there, to the council, we would say all the nine measures that the government will take together with them: butxaca money, fears that we will agree with each of the entities–, we will have a meeting, a meeting with the Dincat agenda because they can... Not a meeting with what they are coming with, the representatives, but with the families that belong to Dincat to explain an idea of what they could be doing. Because they say that they themselves explain what the department says to them hard and, therefore... we have this meeting to do, because we have to do it before the council, so I think that between..., I don't know, this month is just, but the month that we are sure to get it together, and, therefore, the council before the council is sure that we are, with the participation of the president, obviously, that it is who will preside. The idea is to arrange more places – it's to arrange more places. We're hanging from the premise, and we've been telling them about it. The decree of accreditation of the services of early care, for example – which is also a demand that the sector makes – we will do as well. They ask us to work in the field of work – and, of course, they are very happy that we are joining the two departments, because they think it is an opportunity for them – and we have not been talking about making a new model of work integration and supporting independent life. Before, the deputy asked me that the 2_per_cent of the Lysmi is not complete. We also talked to them, they think we need to make a campaign, and so we will, to explain this 2_per_cent. We will adapt the help system to the contraction and retention of people with disabilities in special work centres. We will review the regulation of insertion companies because there is also some problem, and, above all, we will also work in the area of accessibility, we will work for the removal of architectural barriers making a clear impulse. This year, the program contracts must be signed with the joints and, for the first time, one of the files that will be... – which, as you know, leads to the fact that you can have joints in this four-year program that gives full autonomy to the joint to sort out where you want the help that the department does, both in the area of social services and the others – for the first time, there will be a file on accessibility because the joints can also have this support, this new line in the 2016-2019 contract that we will start signing also the month you see. We will develop the Comprehensive Care Plan for People with Mental Disorders and Addictions with Greetings, and we have already started working on it. We believe that the issue is not just social, that it is social and health, and therefore we are already trying to advance in this integration and, above all, in the themes of mental health and addictions. And yesterday we did... yesterday he went out at the D.O.C.O., but we announced last week, since the department, apart from the biannual call that there was the year before the entities, we got a new call. Therefore, all those who have been targeted biannually already have the subsidy, but in addition, we thought that we should strengthen the entities that are working in this sector and that we have only a call for this 2016 of 50_million more, which is an ordinary call to the entities in this third sector, but especially the sector that works with people with disabilities. The council, I have already said, and the adaptation of international law, I hope to work on it as we develop the law, which I said, of autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.15.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, the Member of Parliament, Mrs. Naomi of the Street, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.16.0	Thank you. With regard to the employment proposals that you have commented on in your government plan that you presented on Tuesday, I would like to point out that a large part of the measures that my parliamentary group tabled at the Social Emergency Plenary regarding the promotion of the employability of people with functional diversity, which were unanimously adopted by this House, are envisaged. And, well, although I could have fine-tuned a little bit more, because we said 'increased economic resources, you talk about 'adapting the aid system but..., although there is a hue, but the truth is that we are glad that you have collected that mandate so quickly and incorporated it into your government plan. We found to be missing..., and I think..., well, they were commenting on the reservation of places in ordinary companies, but we found to be missing the point that had the proposal to raise to 7_per_cent the quota of employment reserve for persons with disabilities in the public administrations and agencies dependent on the Generalitat of Catalonia, which was one of the proposals that Cocarmi asked us to assume all the political parties in our electoral programs and that Citizens pledged to take to this chamber. There is one thing that we have not commented on before and that you have mentioned. On Tuesday we were able to see the announcement, in this government plan, of the deployment of the Accessibility Act. But I don't know if it takes into account the political calendar. That is to say, I think the deadline is in November, to make this regulation; we are in April, it is beginning to be urgent. We know that there are many people who are pending this regulation. And... well, more or less, if you can tell us when you plan to present it. Madam Councillor, excuse me for telling you this, but to me, this councillor, in the last legislatures, not specifically yours, but also in the previous ones, reminds me of a Saturday movie at maximum audience time and I will explain why. Because it's all announcements: announcement that I'm going to work on a law of personal autonomy, which never comes, right? , which has already been spoken by other ex-consellers and each legislature, and in the end, it is not finished; announcement that I am going to deploy the Accessibility Act, but, well, the deadline is running out and we are going to get the bull; announcement meetings with various entities, but in the meantime, as with the films with so many ads, it is that the spectator or the citizen sleeps waiting for some action. The citizen does not want announcements, wants action, wants facts or at least a calendar of deadlines to set dates. Ten years had passed since the UN convention and Catalan legislation had not yet been adapted. Not necessarily, all actions, as we have said, require budgetary allocation, simply a political will. Because here we have time to build a new country in eighteen months, but in ten years we have not had time to adjust the regulations or a law to update it. You have spoken about the Catalan Agency for Social Protection and I wonder: why do we need another public administration such as the Catalan Agency for Protection for the Purposes of Social Services, above, with institutional challenge and confrontation on competition issues, when what we should have is your advice doing the job properly? We must not duplicate administrations, we must provide services. Disability, social rights are very important issues and you..., is another point that..., like everything else, tie to the process, right? , these state structures. Citizens really want less bureaucracy and more services, less empty structures and more effective services. The citizens, as I said, what they need are answers, here and now, and I am telling you that several of the points that are going to contain our motion and that we have mentioned here today are to make a firm commitment to all the issues that we have talked about, to speed up the process of the Catalan Personal Autonomy Act. We want to see that preliminary draft – I am very much in charge of it, I want to see that preliminary draft – which former Councilwoman Neus Munté was talking about, because, she spoke so well of it, that I am very curious. That the rules of the Accessibility Act should also be accelerated or that a deadline should be set, that Catalan legislation should be brought into line with the United Nations Convention, that an unfettered minimum should be guaranteed for dignity money, and that a timetable should be set for updating the Charter of Social Services, among other things. We really hope that among all of us, with the motion next week, we will be able to respond to these needs, which are some of those that the group of people with disabilities demands as the most urgent. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.17.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there's the word "conseller," Mrs. Pains Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.18.0	Deputy Naomi, thank you. Two or three things: first, she always talks to me about what Councilwoman Neus Munté had said. I asked Councilwoman Neus Munté. It was the past legislature, I wasn't the past legislature, and now we're together for the Yes. So, all the themes, we start them and, I said, we keep going. If Councilwoman Neus Munté had said that before the legislature ended the law, then the last legislature did not end, and I have explained it very well, that there are fears that we do not see them well, that we have been talking to the entities, but we have also talked to Councilwoman Neus Munté, because we have no problem, on the contrary – I have passed all the information very well because we are personally friends – so there is no difficulty; but to tell her that the legislature is different, and therefore I am talking about this legislature and I am not talking about the previous ones: first, because we are together for the Yes. That's for a band. For another band, I've already told him that the debate, and I've told him that the entities would participate in it... the butxaca money issue, which we said, we had a deal. There was a problem and the entities..., I suppose that Dincat explained it to them, that with the theme of the co-sponsorship that we had introduced the group and that the other groups had gathered together, we now have a difficult problem and it is that if we are aware of what has come out of Parliament, of taking the co-sponsorship, we do not go to the Law of the Entry and the entities lose it, and they know it. And on the day that they went to make the appearance of Dincat they told me, when they went out they came to find me and they said, "We have already explained to them, we have gone to each group and we have explained to them exactly, that we do not want the co-payment to be passed, that what we want is that it is reviewed, because if the passage is without legal certainty, legal certainty, and, moreover, we do not go to a law of the year 75, which seems to me to be, that it is from the Imserso, that it is precisely the one that they are applying to Andalusia; and here, as many people have something more of property, that they have services to Andalusia, so they are affected and they have to pay more. So, here's where we're blocking a little bit of the issue, so we've come back to meeting with entities, to say how we can do to unlock this issue. And, I guess, all the entities will come to find them, because that's... that's what they're gonna tell me the day they come out of the show, here, that they're gonna tell me that they've already told the show and that, therefore, they're gonna say it again. Despite this, it's clear that we're changing cash; therefore, we're reviewing this. The people who are living in physical disability will pass..., the increase that fem was in 30 and will pass to 60_per_cent. Therefore, they will have a great reduction. The 20_per_cent intellectual disability residence that is currently in place on the IRSC, goes from 45_per_cent, or so it will also change a lot. Residence with intellectual disability, from 20 to 50. And the disability residencies, or so on, the intellectual disability residencies, which is the hardest, the most expensive, the 50th that we were going to go down now to 60. So this is a great effort. For the department they represent between 8 and 9 million euros, but we have already made sure that we did. Why the agency? You say you didn't need it. I don't know what problem we can have with competitions creating a social protection agency, that they have it in the Basque Country, that they have it in other places; therefore, topic of competitions, heading not one. And in a department that we are doing is managing 173,432 services a day today, creating an agency that orders the services that each person can have, that in a future we can add to others..., that, obviously, we have explained it very well, and today I had not talked about independence or state structures, and today you have said it, so I am glad that you come to us, to make new state structures, that is what we agree and solve all the issues. Thank you very much, and we are at your service.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.19.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] The fourteenth point of the order of the day is: young man... Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.20.0	Because I would like to ask for a suspension, if possible, of the plenary, because everything just fifteen minutes ago we have rejected the voting guide of the motion that is now to be discussed, and we understand that in order to be able to analyse the transactions well, we need a little more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.21.0	Five minutes... [[Widow's remorse.]] We're suspending the full five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.22.0	Let's resume the session. [[Pause.]] Anyway... anyway, the one that happened today to have to shut down the plenary because there are no definite texts, that can't happen again, can it? In any case, we'll talk about it; we'll talk about it at the Bureau, we'll talk about it at the Board of Spokespersons, and we'll make some decision why this doesn't happen again. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the draft law on assumptions and fiscal and financial measures]] [[302-00025/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the draft laws on assumptions and fiscal and financial measures submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.23.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, members of the Government... – no, there are no, members of the Government. [[Pause.]] Oh, forgive me, from the Department of Economics...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.24.0	There are two – there are two.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.25.0	Counselors, counselor... – excuse me, I was looking at the rostrum. In the first place, to clarify, why this will come out, and therefore, for the band, from the Socialist Group's point of view, to defend this proposal on who should be the priorities in the face of the 2016 premise, and the urgency of having accounts that address the needs that at these times we have, remember, only, and I think that yes, it would be fair to recognize it for the different bearers, that our text, since yesterday, which has already passed – yesterday we passed it already – with the different items, we already passed to the different bearers so that we could look at what was the wording that we were proposing today, huh? So, yes, there are two motions and a lot of contents are linked to the motion we are debating now and to what we will be doing after Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, but in any case it is clear that our writings, our texts, and even all the attempts at negotiation, have already produced yesterday – the few attempts at negotiation. So, are we guilty of not accepting all the papers we would want from the different groups? Yeah. Are we guilty of trading less than we would have liked because our strategy has obviously been to try to make a common front on those truncated issues that we agreed on in the inquiry and that seemed absurd to us to reproduce today's debate, and two motions with very similar contents but with different wordings? Also. So, as long as we're... I'm including it, the wording, the motion and the procedure that we've used, in the normality of the country, they understand the concept of normality with this flexibility that many of us give it, huh? At every moment, there are things that seem more or less normal to us. So, you can tell us that we are a little flexible because we want a common front with Catalonia Yes, it is about some of the issues that we agree on, and here it is that the central part of the young person is transactional, with difficulty, because, by means of arguments, to his or her own motion and to our own, we have transactional and we have tried to do a joint thing in coherence with what we said to the interrogations. To thank the presentations that have been made, to apologize for not being able to find the point of agreement to deal with some of the points of the different groups, while many have been subsumed with the transactions that we have made with Catalonia Yes that is Pot. And here, too, they ask for an effort to try to join the accord with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which in the end touches the central themes. And, obviously, there is the rest of the motion, which remains as is the original text of the Socialist Group's motion. What do we say? What we say and what we say: that we have an entry problem. The government plan presented for the president spoke that it was necessary to update the financing system. We make a motion that we say we need to know in what terms and what we claim for a new funding system. Interestingly, Junts per el Yes presents us with a suppression message at this point. So they don't want a new funding system, or they don't want to claim it or they don't want to spend any effort on it. Diem: "Home, but if you put your plan of government on it! We believe: common front or left-wing alliance to try to make a social turn to empower the industrial fabric – "thank you" –, to help our country's economy because, obviously, the priority is that the quadrennial accounts, the priority is that the public services work, to recover these 5,000_million euros detailed in later years. We have been reasonable and day: « We have a forecast not only of 2016, but 17, 18 to gradually recover these moneys. So, shall we talk about how we reactivate the economy? The industry? There are forty plans to promote industry, the economy, but if we then do not devote any effort, no money, no presuppositional parties... In this line, we have done so too. Let's talk about iron straightening up. So good the government, at this new stage, is able to make it straight. From the strawberry to the endreça. I don't know if everyone would agree that until now it's been cool, because it's kind of like a little bit of a show, but we're just so good at getting public accounts straight. Start straightening out our house. Perhaps you should have made a common front to claim with Mr. Rajoy many elements that we defend all here: the pending debts, finance more just, 0_per_cent interest in the FLA, a part of the removal or renegotiation of the debt that at these times is the fault of a system that had not been updated when it was touched. Can anyone refuse to claim this, which is just for all Catalans and Catalans? Therefore, we ask 2016 assumptions, 2016 accounts, with clear priorities; we ask Junts for the Yes, to the Government, to seek alliances apart from its members of the CUP. That's why we didn't understand each other – that's why we didn't understand each other – because after the interrogations we didn't find a consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.26.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.27.0	... some gains that there has been economic consensus to find an alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.28.0	I'm having a hard time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.29.0	Thank you, President. In any case, at the next turn of the reviews we can intersperse more opinions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.30.0	Thank you very much, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.31.0	Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.32.0	To defend the presented items, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach, of Catalunya Yes that is Pot. [[Pause.]] No, Miss Jessica Albiach, as you can see, no. It's Mr. Joan Coscubala. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.33.0	Well, good morning. Excuse me, President, I'd like to be as young as Jessica and many other things, but that's not it. First of all, for the part of the group, to apologize to the rest of the groups in the chamber in the way that they had to work and so, as the spokesman of the Socialist Group said, yesterday night we had our compromises, they communicated, because the text is the same but the order did not, but it was necessary to talk to other groups in the chamber and this is what has made it difficult to make today's ballot paper. As I never share the criteria that blame is always on the others, so some part of the guilt we'll have to take on, and apologize, and we'll do everything we can to keep it that way. It was supposed to be the Jessica here, but for personal reasons it can't be there. See, it hasn't been planned, but it's not by chance that Catalonia Yes, it's Pot and the PSC have simultaneously filed some inquiries, and today some motions. I think it's from a shared evidence, a reflection that each one has made on its side, but it has coincided with an evidence: the need, at this time, to have a minimum political debate about which is the presuppositional and fiscal orientation of this government, especially considering that for the mornings you say one thing and for the afternoons you say another, and the only way to know it is to put it in a paper and see at the end that you vote each. Of course, because when the councillor and vice president says he's going to put forward some continuistic assumptions, because it can't be any other way, and his associates legitimately ask them for some rupturistic assumptions, so we, in the end, need so much music that it's concrete with some letter. For this – for this – this location to discuss the inquiry and also this motion. Also why, man, at this hour, at the end of April, that this Parliament has not discussed...; spoke, much, as Vice-President Junqueras says: "What do you want to talk more about the assumptions? If we don't stop talking to him. Speak, yes; concrete, res. So, before that, it seemed to us that we should set it up. And I believe that we have demonstrated, with the ability to establish transactions, that it is possible to agree on the basic axes of a fiscal and presuppositional policy that, in our view, would have to apply all left-wing and progress forces of this chamber. All of them, without distinction. Moreover, to do so with a clear national view confronted with the "austericides and centralizers" economic policies that the Spanish Government has practiced with some help from someone who is also its own in this chamber, and is not precisely a minority. They've got me, haven't they? So today, by the way of these transactions, we are presenting a common trunk, a common trunk that I think is worth the fact that all the groups in the chamber are analyzing in depth, because it seems to me, frankly, that with the girls' transactions with the Socialist Group, mutual transactions, they are part of the axis of what could be a presuppositionary policy that was not continuous, that places the priority of the social emergence of the people, that planted face before the recent, deeply recent, attitudes of the Spanish government, but also that they were also caught in a reality, that is, that there were no fires of incense, floral fires, that did not serve anything else. We believe this, quite simply, badly because we have seen that this common trunk seems that it cannot be assumed for the conjunction of this chamber, led not to change the opinion of the main group of the chamber, Together for the Yes. And I say that, because depending on the questions raised, I fear that, despite the efforts that we have made in Catalonia, Yes, it is Pot and the PSC to enter into a deep debate, Together for the Yes has decided to postpone this debate, to Greek Kalendas. I hope it's a little early on. If for the works you will know them, for their consideration you will interpret them. The truth is to address, to these heights of life, the themes that have been addressed about taxation, rationalization of expenditure, public debt, public deficit, with verbs such as "to study, "to reflect, "to analyze, "to see, to these heights, to study, to study, to study, we have had time to study all. Now is the time to examine yourself; and to examine yourself the government says exactly where it wants to shoot. Continue or breakers; disconnected or connected. There are so many dilemmas here that we need to resolve, and this is the issue that we have raised with our reviews. I very much appreciate the effort made by the Socialist Group, sincerely, from this perspective, to accept our ideas; I think it is a shared effort and I want to, moreover, personally thank my friend Óscar Ordeig, who had not had the pleasure until now to share these things so raging from the motions, and the truth is that it was all a pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.34.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Ms. Carmina Castellví, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.35.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. We will accept many points of his motion, such as the improvement and flexibility of the deficit targets – I will talk about it later –, not to carry out more sales of assets or privatizations, something that has been announced several times by the Government, prioritising social and economic recovery policies, recovering assumptions lost in the past years in basic services, incorporating into the assumption the necessary parties approved in the plenary of the poor and also in the field of the annex of the 9-N declaration, and we have not been able to mention any aspect of the motion. It's like you're going to the boat, it's stuck, and when the hatch came the whole gene for the bounce. In other aspects of the young man's life, we must oppose each other. And one of the aspects to which we must object is that of the government's requirement to present the draft law of assumptions in a given term. The government has its own calendar and, therefore, let them work, and I am sure that we will soon have the assumptions in this chamber. There is a point, in particular number 2, which has given me some thanks. He says – he says – that the government has to start negotiations with the state. Go, and what's happened so far? Finally, and I do not recall very badly, this Parliament, in 2012, approved for a large majority a proposal for a new financing called the Tax Pact. And we all remember the response of the Spanish State: a ‘no round'. It's more, I think the president but they locked it – and let me express it – the door to the hills. We're not in this state, Mr. Ordeig; we don't already have our financing systems; we don't want to get in the way, we want to get out of the way; we want to manage all our taxes, not just five percent of the taxes we pay Catalans, as is the case now. The people, when we go out on the street, we do not ask for the tax pact and we do not want our financing systems. We want independence, we want to count on our own resources to develop the social and economic policies of the first order, which correspond to our fiscal effort in our country. Improve and make more flexible the deficit targets to apply to Catalonia? Of course, yes, but let me remind you that it is the Spanish State that centrifuges all the deficit to the autonomous communities and it is this delleity that penalizes local and autonomous administrations. Even though we found out yesterday that it was up to 0.7_per_cent– maybe there are elections. Moreover, when one of the two parties, in this case the Spanish State, does not want to negotiate, as we saw what happened to the last fiscal and financial policy council, unfortunately. The motion is also asked to review the various tax benefits that the Generalitat applies. At this point, only one given: 94.3_percent of the tax benefits that establish tax legislation have been established for the State, while only 5.7_percent of the total have been established for the Generality. In view of these percentages, I have to make a suggestion to you: if you come to rule Spain, then change the state legislation, which is what really has a significant impact on this issue of tax benefits, and what I find lacking that you do not include in your pact with Citizens in Madrid. In any case, when the fiscal benefits of Catalans are decided in Catalonia, you have no doubt that we will review and rationalize them. He also asks us to approve a plan against tax fraud, but we are aware that this is already done: the plan to prevent and reduce tax fraud and promote good tax practices 2015-2018. He has no sense of approving another plan; what he plays is to apply what we have. And finally, and in relation to pending payments, explain how you would do that, if the Generality cannot decide on its entries; if it has to be pending the whims of Minister Montoro to open and close the financing line; if it has to pay some leonin interests for the FLA; if from the modification of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, moreover, the Government of the State sets the priority in the Generality payments, how is it possible to draw up a payment plan that can be completed? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.36.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there is the words of Mr. Antonio Espinosa, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.37.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, the motions of the Socialist and Catalonian groups Yes, it is Pot that basically raise four points: the need for budgets as soon as possible; the need to solve the problem of the public debt of the Generalitat and also propose a third point: some tax increases to have more revenue and some measures to reduce expenditure. Nor do you have to say that we are, as a whole, quite in agreement with many of the proposals put to us. But, on this occasion and in this intervention, I would like to refer to the position of Citizens on budgets and debt and to leave for my next intervention in relation to the following motion the position on taxes and expenditure. Well, as far as budgets are concerned, I have to say that there is complete agreement with both groups that they should be presented, because the truth, with the highest priority, with the highest urgency. It is regrettable, very regrettable, that after a hundred days of government, which before yesterday was presuming the President of the Government, let us remain without budgets. And the reason, the reason is very simple, is: we have a majority, there is a weak parliamentary majority, there is a divided parliamentary majority, there is a parliamentary majority which is therefore incapable of realising and shaping the budgets. And this, the truth is that it is very serious; it is very serious because, first of all, what is happening is that neither the Junts pel program itself – nor the Junts pel program itself – can be carried out, nor the government program itself can be carried out. But let us be serious, let us be honest, if there are no new budgets, there is no new legislature, pure continuity, demagogicism simply, and, without budgets, no new public policies can be carried out, no new social policies can be carried out. We are paralysed politically and, especially seriously, socially. With regard to the public debt of the Generalitat, we maintain some differences with regard to the amendments that have been submitted to us, and we regret that some of our amendments, which we have raised to you, have not been taken up, I think correctly, but, logically, we accept that they have not been taken up. But we regret it, we have to regret it. Well, on this debt issue, I think we should maintain a clear attitude and exercise of realism and pragmatism. We must accept and understand that we need to be lent money; we need Catalans and we need it, too, as Spanish. We need money to lend us, and that exercise of reality, that exercise of pragmatism is not reflected – it is not reflected – in some groups, especially in some who have behavior or show irresponsible and demagogic behavior, which, even then, speak of disobedience, indifference and non-compliance with creditors; whether it be this, the State, whether banks or financial markets. This group, sincerely, would need to give itself a bath of realism, of reality. There is another very important aspect: those who from goodwill say that we must have an agreed take-off. Gentlemen, if we don't..., we can't go and tell those who are going to lend us money, those who are going to continue to lend us money that we are considering – not even, agreedly – the possibility that a part of the debt will not be paid. This is to generate a distrust that would logically result, immediately, in fewer creditors wishing to lend to us and, automatically, an increase in the interest we would have to pay on the debt. And finally, there is the position of Citizens. The position of Citizens, what do you want? We understand that we need to negotiate with creditors, we need to negotiate new financial conditions, we need to restructure the debt, and we need to restructure in exchange for also offering reforms; reforms that, of course, promote growth, promote wealth regeneration. That is, on one condition: under no circumstances can they involve further cuts in health, education or social policies. This is the position of Citizens, the only realistic and possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.38.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Josep Enric Millo, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.39.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion of the Socialist Group, which has finally become a joint motion, practically, with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot... They have finally presented us with a voting guide with a whole deal for the total practice of the motion, we will finally see how the vote is developing, but it gives the impression that it's like a pinching motion, isn't it? To try to do something that the proposers perfectly know they can't do. You try to make a predebate of assumptions, which would be interesting to be able to do – we should have done it already – but try to do it through a resolution proposal, with a brief debate, and you have many very important aspects in a motion that require a thorough, extensive, detailed debate and that you cannot do with a debate as a motion for a resolution. I suppose you'll have to agree on that. Even I am afraid to say – I am saying with affection – that this young man suffers from an excess of ingenuity, because precisely they want to make a debate of assumptions of 2016 when the Government of the Generality does not want to do it – and now I will refer to it. This young man has four chapters, basically, and there is a great level of coincidence in many of the aspects that you have put into this, especially in the chapters that refer to the fight against fraud and tax evasion put in measures that we share and, therefore, we will give our recovery. To ensure that the Government's pending payments are produced with its suppliers, with the assemblies, we will also find a high level of coincidence here. And also in the third chapter, in the last chapter, which is what makes reference to the rationalization of public administration. All the measures that lead to a rationalisation and greater efficiency of public administration, know perfectly well that it is one of the axes that the People's Party has always defended, and therefore, here too will find us, right? Now, there's a first chapter, which for me is very interesting, which is the assumption, which is where you intend to make this debate that has a very important problem, isn't it? The question we need to ask ourselves is, why hasn't there been a debate of assumptions? Why hasn't the Government of the Generalitat been carrying, in a hundred days, a draft of assumptions here in Parliament? That there's no time to make a presupposition project in a hundred days? That there's no time? What do you want us to think you've come up with, and I don't know what you're talking about, all this presupposition? What have they done to study a very complicated subject that they don't know what's going on? Convergence six years ago that governs Catalonia, six years that is in government. I mean, you already know how to make assumptions, huh? And Republican Left four years ago it participates and collaborates and actively contributes to the drafting and elaboration of the assumptions of the Generality – four years, eh? And now, plus, with a hundred days, there's not enough... Home, simply the 16th's assumptions aren't here because there's not a majority in Parliament that I can approve, and enough. There's no other explanation, just this. Because the CUP doesn't give its arm to twist, and because the Socialists and Catalonia clamp Yes, it may not be mature enough yet. So, the next question I ask is, will we have an authentic debate about 2016 assumptions in this Parliament, in this chamber? My answer is no. "Oh, but it's that Councilman Junqueras says he will bring the debate of..., the project... Yes, man, he will. He must have it; authentic, no. Authentically, he won't have it. Why? Because in July, when the vote on the 2016 presupposition debate comes to this chamber, the 2016 presupposition is now fully applied, practically, and spent. You're cheating on this. The Lords of Junts for Yes are cheating on this and you should know it – I think you know it. Mr Junqueras, the Vice President and Councillor of Economy, what he does is execute a presupposition that deals punctually with the CUP in the way they can. And when he practically has it already spent and applied, he will come here and bring it to us so that we can say amen, and those who want to say amen will already do so. We've presented seven or eight... eight papers, concretely, and unfortunately only one of us accept. But I want to give thanks, because they accept the most important – I thank them of all color – which is what appears in the voting guide as at number 29. And in number 29 they see that what you say, which is the issue negotiated with the People's Group, is that it is present before October 10th – October 10th, October 10th – six months from now – according to Article 32 of the Public Finance Act of the Generalitat, the Generalitat's Bill of Presumables Project of 2017. Because the presupposition of the year 2016 – drawing – is already ventilated, decided, applied and "painted" – or, better said, spent. What I'd be interested in is that we could start working already on the premise of the year 2017, and how the law obliges us to bring the draft assumptions here before October 10th of this year, I place them – and with the approval of this slogan of the People's Party – that we can actually put ourselves to work on the premise of 2017. And while, if you please, they do, if it's finally approved, don't give the board to the group of Junts for the Yes and the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.40.0	Mr. Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.41.0	I'm done, President. Don't give the scale, therefore, to the negotiation of a new financing model, because you know that it is perfectly feasible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.42.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant of the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.43.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. First of all, despite the fact that it is true what the Members of the PSC said, that yesterday at eight o'clock on the evening they sent the transactions, from the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Cry They constitute in us pleasure that among all we have made a reflection and make a thought to the totality to the methodology of work. If all we're talking about here is that it's sensitive material that citizens don't have to hang around, that it's up to public servants, that it's down to many people; what we can't do is that every week we have ple, it's turned into the fish market, we're talking until the last hour and we're talking, and we seem to end up making decisions, in time to vote, without thinking and without having looked into everything in depth that we're deciding. To him who passes here, if we want to give him the transcendence he has, we must do well. So, to us, often, the body would ask us to vote that not many of the motions, because we understand that the debate is not done on the conditions that should be done. But we don't, and we won't either. Some of the points, or most of the points of this young man, I don't know exactly what it is: is it the PSC? It's Catalonia's. Yes, it's Pot, exactly? Is that a re-record? If it's a re-record, why do we have to discuss it twice? Let's do one. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But, well... or, why not, two weeks ago, they filed a joint motion directly? And we got rid of all the past games. But once we have two debates, I will try not to repeat myself and what I have left now and when the time is up, I can tell you the next time. We said from the first moment, here, in various interventions, in plenary, but also to the Commission, that we understood that it was necessary to increase the tickets clearly. So, obviously, everything you have to do with fiscal policy, with a fiscal policy that's either real or redistributive and where they have the most pay, we would absolutely agree. But we have to say that in the PSC's motion, the other day we made some illusions, because listening to the speech of Congressman Ordeig seemed that, since we are so much the Government of the State, we also urged him to amend Article 135 of the Constitution. The article that has brought us and leads us systematically to the situation of misery in which many Catalan people live, but also from the rest of the State, because it obliges us to prioritize the interests of the rich, the interests of the banks, over the interests of the people. But that's not there. Despite this, deal with Catalonia Yes, it's Pot the idea of the debt working group, the idea of from this work group doing an analysis on the public debt. We like it, because on November 9th we voted for this, and because we voted for it again in the House of the Poor. We were going to vote to urge the Government to make a working group, a working group that exists; a working group that has, like one of the objectives, to facilitate or allow the Government to lay down a cost reduction that can be used to finance the shoc plan. Therefore, we understand that financing the shoal plan means increasing much more the social expenditure of the premise than, in principle, the government, for which you say, is developing. Therefore, if this working group is working and has a calendar – which could be, yes, more intense, that we could go faster, but has a calendar – and all of you, here, congratulated, in a way..., with much enthusiasm, the counselor, we understand that we are interested in this working group working. So, if you say the 1 bis point we're putting the government, and with this we're absolutely in agreement, to accompany assumptions with policy initiatives that allow for a public debt restructuring, are you sure we'll have May 15th? We're looking for another date, but we don't do this, that's to say, let this working group that we all like and that we all celebrate work, because the debt and the payment of the debt is what brings us and brings us to the obligation of the popular classes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.44.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.45.0	...and without prioritizing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.46.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.47.0	... – now I'm done – and we haven't prioritised for a long time the social policies that you ask that are priority here and that we share in the cent_per_cent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.48.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then has the word the Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.49.0	Thank you to all the comments of the different spokespersons. Yes, the PP government gives oxygen, sometimes, to these lamentations and to Junts for the Yes and to the government, but there is not enough. It's not the wonder we have to emmirald the Catalans. Yes, compañeros of the CUP, they could have presented a thought about Article 135; I was not so ambitious to have created them..., to think that even all of them would have created illusions with my intervention. In any case, I'm sure it would have seemed good, and we'll keep saying it, and the truth is, I didn't even get through to... I didn't forget about this, but I was probably gonna include it, huh? Mr. Millo, we're late; we're late and we're getting there badly. And the presupposition 2016, which we'd have to start thinking about for what month we're debating the presupposition 2017..., is that the problem, and it's what gives us the feeling, is that it's neither there nor expected. And that's what makes us feel: that we talk about the many things that we approve of the commissions through motions for resolutions in these motions..., is that we cannot include the king! Because there's no supposition. We're not doing well. We have already tried to do an analysis with the ability of the Generality and the Government and with the possibilities of renegotiation of the much money we lack to pull things forward. And in this new stage of understanding, of dialogue, of leadership, that I don't know if I mean to say that we're saying goodbye to some of the statements we made, but we're... okay, that's fine. We think it's fresh and straight, that it means demand, but doing things right. And sometimes we seem to turn things off and sometimes we make speeches, and then they don't match actions. In any case, we are pleased that I flowed the dial, that I flowed the set, that there was some solution on the actual table. And, therefore, we would be willing to negotiate in this sense. And now he sees the moment of truth. We propose concrete solutions on the table. Sex-secreting choices: do you want to rethink grants for 2017-2018 and donate a transitional period so that these choices can be adapted and you can't lose subsidies, yes or no? We will have a presupposition 2016 for all the votes and requests that we have at these times, yes or no? Successions: we can present a reform..., because the deductions, which we say all depend – almost all – on Madrid, is true; but also many to a large extent, and above all successions, depend on the Government of the Generality. Do we want more money for Catalonia? Do we have negotiating skills? Yeah? What do we say there's an unfair financing? Do you, in your programme, have to update the financing system? So are we. Therefore, we have a common front. Therefore, in everything that I went in the sense of doing right and doing things right and looking at us at the Mirall, the Catalans, our Government, and pleasing us, we will be there. But let us not deceive ourselves: neither from the Presidency of the Government, nor from the Vice Presidency, nor from the spokesman there has been an attempt to accommodate us further beyond the transactions of the last few hours. And we introduced this young man a week ago, and so there was time to talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.50.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.51.0	Straighten up, feel the same...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.52.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.53.0	...ambition and presuppositions, now. Thank you, President, Members, Members, Members of the Government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.54.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.55.0	To ask for separate votes and a cry. It's to make it clear if the young lady really doesn't have a point three, does she? [[Pause.]] It's deleted, there's no 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.56.0	There's no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.57.0	Okay. I, then, to ask for a separate vote on points 1a, 2a, 2.b, 2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.58.0	One moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.59.0	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.60.0	1 bis, 2a, 2.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.61.0	... 2.c, 4, 20, 21, 23 and 24. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.62.0	Yes; then we'll repeat them. [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]] Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.63.0	For a separate vote on points 1, 12.c, 13, 25, 27 and 29. [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.64.0	Mr. Millo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.65.0	Thank you, President. Also for a separate vote on points 6, 12.b, 16, 20, 22 and 23. [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.66.0	Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.67.0	To ask for the separate vote; I will tell you all, although some points are repeated, but... L'1, l'1 bis, the 2, the 4, the 5, l'11, the 12, the 14, the 15, the 16, the 17, the 18, the 20, the 21, the 23, the 25, the 26, the 27 and the 29.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.68.0	Maybe they'll vote for it... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Maybe... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that I think... I don't know if... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. I think it is, that we vote for it all separately, because God doesn't, does he? We'll talk about that, too, at the Spokesman's Board, huh? Also, because... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, we'll talk about it, too. So many points... All right, then. We'll vote, if it looks like it, all points separately, because it's complicated, huh? And so, let's get started. Is everybody here yet? [[Pause.]] Yeah, it looks like it's more or less everyone; we can start voting, I guess, right? [[Pause.]] So, come on. Let's get started, let's get the vote started. We'll vote... I'll go one by one, the one we vote for, huh? So, for the time being, we're voting point one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 59 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then we vote on the 1 bis point. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 23 abstentions. We're voting 2nd. The vote begins. It was rejected by 26 votes to 71, with 33 abstentions. We're voting now on 2.b. The vote begins. It was rejected by 26 votes to 81, with 23 abstentions. We're voting now on 2.c. The vote begins. It was rejected by 49 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. We're voting point four now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. We're voting point five now. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We're voting point six now. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point seven. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes to one, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point eight. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's move on to vote 10. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 11. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. One moment, because it seems to me that in this we were asked to vote separately. [[Pause.]] Does the Socialist Party accept this vote? [[Pause.]] So then we will have to vote again on 12.b because we have been asked to vote separately on 12.b and 12.c. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. So, anyway, it'll be 12th. It's been voted 12th and now we're voting 12b and 12c, if that sounds like it. [[Pause.]] So, let's now vote on 12.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 59 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on 12.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 59 votes to 10, with 61 abstentions. And now we're going to vote already point number 13. The vote begins. It was approved by 119 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point 14. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Let's move on to vote on point 15. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number 16. The vote begins. It was approved by 59 votes to 45, with 26 abstentions. [[Some applause.]] Let's go now and vote point number 17. The vote begins. It was approved by 67 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point 18. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Let's go now and vote point number 19. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote point 20. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 23 abstentions. The 21st has a number of separates, but no one has asked me to vote separately. So, we'll vote all together. All right, huh? The 21st has several separates but the vote together. [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 23 abstentions. Then we vote on the number 22. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we vote on point 23. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 60, with 33 abstentions. Next, we vote on number 24. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes to 10, with 23 abstentions. Then we vote on number 25. The vote begins. It was rejected by 59 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then we vote on point 26. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Then we vote on the number 27. The vote begins. It was rejected by 59 votes to 61, with 10 abstentions. Then we vote on the number 28. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we vote on number 29. The vote begins. It was rejected by 59 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. [[Condol demonstration for victims of Ecuador's terratremols]] Before continuing with the order of the day, I would like to inform the chamber that the Honourable Richard Olivo, General Console of Ecuador in Barcelona, and the Honourable Luis Valenzuela, Vice-console of Ecuador in Barcelona, as well as the associations and federations of Ecuadorian entities of Catalonia, accompany us to the guest gallery. In the name of the Parliament of Catalonia, our condolences for the death of hundreds of people on the Earthquake who suffered the last few days of Ecuador were conveyed to them. In memory of the victims of this tragedy, we ask them to keep a minute of silence. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence. Perlongats applause. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.69.0	The next item on the agenda is the 15th item. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal and fiscal policy]] [[302-00027/11]] This is the motion following the government's inquiry into fiscal and presuppositional policy. He has been presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot, and, in his name, has the word, now, Mr Joan Coscubiela. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.70.0	Yeah, sure?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.71.0	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, [[Pause.]] Forward, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.72.0	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. No presuppositions, says the vice president. Without any presupposition there is no government plan, says the president. Without disconnection and disobedience there is no presupposition, his associates answer him. Without assumptions connected to the FLA we have no air to breathe, the Junts replica for the Yes. No presuppositions disconnected has not proceeded, they say all folds. So, well, if the assumptions are so important, maybe it's been a while since we've had to discuss them. And to break this circle of vices is why our group together with the Socialist Group have given the opportunity, in this House, to debate on budgetary policy. But it seems that Together for the Yes has decided to flee from the study, to the purest style Junqueras : run from the study, give the skeleton..., and so I do not listen to the one I do not like. Our proposals are articulated on four axes. First, we want to go to the root of the problem, one of them, the restructuring of the debt and the redistribution and placement of public deficit targets. If we can't restructure the debt, even if it's inclusive, we condemn the Catalan citizens to be working for five decades to pay for the interests of the debt. And that's what's going to happen if it's the shape of the state. And that's why it's essential to approach him. Secondly, we need to improve the entrances and end the unjust financing of Catalonia, and while we do not get a proper record, improve the system of autonomous financing, re-discuss the objectives and terms of this generality deficit and improve the conditions of the FLA. But they're not all about Spain, Mr. Junqueras, not all of it. It is also urgent to improve the value of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds of the proceeds And we propose to them to reform the inheritance tax to increase the tax collection by 500_million euros; to increase the tax capacity of the IRPF's assets and progressive tax; to expand the possibilities of green taxation; to apply the Law on Public Transport Finance, with four proposals that we put in place. The third element of our proposal is to rationalise expenditure. In yesterday's session it was stated that the Government uses advertising expenses as a covert way of giving grants. But the hardest thing: the same health counselor has recognized that they are spending around €2,000_million to provide healthcare for actions that would have to finance employers' mutuals because they are dealing with diseases of professional origin. Certainly, a news that deserved to open today all the communication media of our country: 2,000_million euros that would have to pay the mutuals that the national health system is paying, and here, the government of the government of the island to not know; 2,000_million euros that are not the chocolate of tears; only 10_percent of this amount is as much as the plan of the agreement between Junts for the Yes and the CUP. Fourth of our proposal, the better the tax management and the fight against tax fraud. It was the same vice president of the government who recognized that they were lost at least four years ago. He has come to say that the development of our tax agency is smaller than that of other autonomous communities, and I think I remember that he mentioned, after all, Múrcia, because, as we were trying to build castles at the sorra, we forgot to convert something concrete. There was no willingness to fight the tax fraud. It seems that some have thought of: "They are fugitives and tax criminals, but they are our fugitives and our criminals, they carry the same flag as us. The policies we propose are viable, Mr Junqueras. It won't be snooping and blistering, but we have more room than you say. Clearly, in order to put these policies on the table, some things are needed. First, that Together for Yes in its globality rejected the "austericide" policies, that a good part of its members, the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and not just some of the independents, certainly, voted for Europe, Spain and Catalonia. Cal confront the powerful Catalans. No breaking eggs is no trout, but no buying them, still less. They must confront the interests of lobbyists, such as health care and mutuals; powerful Catalan lobbyists who come together as two drops of water to the powerful Spanish lobbyists, because, in fact, they are the same. You need to stop using the assumption to try to control the company, and above all, Mr. Vice President, do as you say to President Puigdemont: less sound and more management. What a pity that the government has become accustomed to practicing that most Vatican woman who says: "You do what I tell you, but not what I do. If it's over with the sound and the gesticulation, the king gets naked before the city. If you want us to talk about assumptions, Mr Junqueras or the government, we are willing to talk about it; if you prefer to gesticulate and continue with the floral fires, I do not count on us. You have the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.73.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. [[Some applause.]] Discussions have been presented by four parliamentary groups. The first one to have the word is the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and, in his name, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.74.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, very quickly because we have already commented... – lack of time, eh? – but we have already commented on my position. Agrair, obviously, to the deputy Joan Coscubiela, to the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the predisposition to negotiate, to transaction. It's been very intense. And, above all, also, by recovering the thread of what we say: here there is debate, here there is dialogue, here there is negotiation, and between passes we try all to deal, and, therefore, sometimes arriving just in time, precisely, I mean because it has tried to explore all the lives of dialogue and negotiation and agreement. So, I think it's better to rush the dialog, the negotiation and the pact, and get there right, but get there, that sometimes you don't talk enough, huh? Therefore, I would also ask for compliments of the agreements. The agreements that are taken in this chamber, the democratic mandate of the Parliament, with the consent of the plenary, the agreements of the committees, presuppositions and non-presuppositions, and some of them, which is complete, because we are approving things and it seems that it is like the day of the marmot, which is repeated, and you take every day and it seems that you have to repropose the same because to what we have already said it is ugly, that it was approved and that yes..., and that the government and the parliamentary group that supports it, therefore, has not just applied it. So, we: is there any margin for the 2016 budget? Do we need a presupposition? Yeah. Is there margin for the 2016 presupposition? Yeah. Menys we want? Okay, but there's room, because if we don't, we'll tank the tent and if that's what it is... we'll turn it into an administrative office and it's already there. Then there's margin. And, therefore, would we like to have more room? Oh, so much! Do we want to have more skills? Do we want a new funding system? Yes, but there is scope, and therefore, as we do administer it well. Let's reopen the key on an important issue: modernization of local administration, rationalization of spending. This is what we talk about every time that if the Generality's assumption has practically increased twice, it has grown, since the beginning of the economic goodness of 2000, so, it is true that there can be administrative doubles. It is true that we can scrape very much so that we try to serve those who are not essential, so spend less, and dedicate them precisely to those who are really important. That's not happening – that's not happening – because all day long we're fresh and little straight, and forgive me for repeating it again, but that's the way it is. Promotion of enterprise, employment, industrial policy. We make plans, but we don't apply them. We made plans, but there was no presupposition. Why? Because we don't move anything. Why? Because it's a continuist assumption of the Mas-Colell era. Why? Because we have our doubts that there has been sufficient parliamentary establishment to make some accounts, to draw some accounts forward. I, as President Artur Mas said, "without any presupposition he did not feel to follow the legislature, and less a legislature of 18_months, 20, 16 or 10. He didn't feel it. Dialog and negotiation with different groups. So, that's what we've been trying to do. Thank you for accepting the different papers. Let's talk about debt that's the big problem our government has and that Parliament has. Can't compare Catalan debt to Spanish at the GDP level, because the ability it has to make this Spanish government debt is not the same as the government of Catalonia because obviously we don't administer all the money. Let's talk about the FLA, let's talk about the deficit, which is insufficient, 0.7_per_cent – it's insufficient. Vice President, we agree with you. We are talking about completing the plan of government they presented, updating autonomous financing. We're talking about current expenses, trust costs, salary limitation, which is certainly the shock of crying, but we don't understand, as we don't understand that, with what we're dealing with, we haven't put a thread in the needle with these themes and we follow the first examples and solve them. The concerts to the schools that secrete by sex, also, obviously, and many governments had extended these subsidies, but I think that in the context that we are now, with the situation that we are now, we can't..., we think we can rethink it. Retrieve spending in salvation, teaching, social services. We have not set dates, we would have liked to say: "Listen, we are marking a two-year term, three years to try to recover the levels of per capita spending on social expenditure that we had in 2010. We would have liked, and obviously, to guarantee the threefoldness of suppliers, public workers and, therefore, of the Generality for this year 2016. So, nothing more. Appreciate, obviously, all the groups at work. We've tried to be reasonable, we've tried to be flexible. We understand that we will not solve it all in 2016, but we need to start putting solutions in 2016. And, above all, the world was not over in 2016, the 17th will bring out the sun again and that what is decided now has a continuity on 16, the 17th and the 18th so as to try to refer to the details and refer to assumptions and institutions that follow as just as possible. Thank you, Members, President, members of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.75.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.76.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we're repeating a debate, a practically the same motion, except for a few points that we've voted before and now we're not voting, and some point that we're voting now and then we're not voting. In this sense, we have already exposed the globality of our position to respect, and here we do want to thank Catalonia Yes, it is possible that you have accepted our only concern, even though we have to say that you have taken off a little bit. We have set up, and so it is collected, to recover the tax on bank deposits defined in Law 4/2015; a law that, even if we do not import or believe that we need to develop independently of judgments, is a law annulled by the Constitutional and, so far, throughout this parliamentary section, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it may not have wanted to enter the Constitutional game yes, the Constitutional, not and has remained on the margins systematically. It's good that at the end of a matter of importance as this is very much and enter the game. Let us hope that this will serve for, in future times, to hear and defend clearly that if the Constitutional goes against the interests of Catalans and Catalans, against the popular classes and does not respond to real needs, then pull for the right and, as it now seems like he likes to say to Mr. Coscubiela, break the bones to make a trout. And I will take the opportunity to answer what the Lord of Ciutadans said before, the Spiny Lord: demagogic and irresponsible. To live in a senile capitalism and to devote oneself to managing the wreaths and to be content is irresponsible and, at the same time, it is to make magic with the people to whom it is explained that in the march of this capitalism and managing and accepting the limits imposed by the troika, by the European Union, by the State, by the elites, by the bank..., to say that we are doing this in response to the social needs and that we are actually able to solve the problems, that is to say that it is demagogic. So, he's not worried. They can tell us as often as they do that when we talk about disobeying, that when we talk about embalming and when we talk about defending the interests of the popular classes we are demagic and we are irresponsible, because we are very clear that the only way to transform the absolutely unequal society in which we live, to transform the misery in which thousands of people live is to disobey the mandates they offer and respond to the interests of a few. Returning to the House, as the vast majority of things we have already voted on before, we will repeat our feeling of voting; therefore, I do not think that it will be alienated. And, therefore, we understand that we need to increase and work to increase tax receipts, but that, above all, we need to work in the debate on public debt and that we need to go much further than once the government's debt working group has made it easier or better able to jointly analyze all the data, power, then, really address the debate about what we are doing with public debt, so that we are getting back to, who we have been benefiting from, and, in this way, being able to start a social debate, not on time, but on a permanent basis, what you are doing to question this system in which we live and this system is what has brought us to the current situation. All the more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.77.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there's the word "Ms. Maria Senserrich" from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.78.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies... well, first, I expected more of you, Mr Coscubala. I was hoping more because... maybe it's my fault, huh? , for a topic of expectations that I had towards you, an experienced man, a man who has passed through Congress, a man who knows how the parliamentary dynamic works... – I expected more. We have found ourselves, I personally and my Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, with two problems: one is formable, businessable; half an hour ago practically or three-quarters of an hour ago we had what we were going to vote on now. We chased him day, morning and night. We've been trying to get this text, because we're willing to agree on things, come to terms, and that's why we've done reviews. They have not even told us so much about our reviews, they have simply given it to other groups and they have made it clear to us. Therefore, the forms have certainly been wrong. And you're talking to us about an example and it takes time to talk about the assumptions and you're setting an example with Mr. Vice President... I'm sorry, I think you're wrong. I totally agree with Mrs Reguant when she denounced all this procedure we have experienced today. Miri, I have five years as a Member of Parliament: I've never seen it before. I've negotiated motions with Initiative, with Mr. Boada, with Mr. Vendrell, with Mr. Herrera, and I've never had the problems I've had with you today. Therefore, I believe in shapes, few. And the other topic we've had? So, contained: a certain young man flows – flows –: miswritten, superfluous things, misexplained, and has obviated various things, more than that. You talk about assumptions, about the group of the debt... – obviously something started, agreed with the CUP – you talk about public deficit and then it does make us an element of entrances and expense, but it obvious the problem of setting up, which is the model of financing, from which the money comes. You don't even get it. That's right, when you see that Mr. Ordeig – who did it very well, for sure; his young lady was well-educated – in her young man was talking about the financing model, you say: "Oh, my God! I left the finance model with me. Certainly, it has passed, and that we, as Mrs Castellví has said, have made a proposal to this Parliament in the year 2012 for a tax pact approved by a large majority and that no one has listened to us. Therefore, it obviates the basics, which are the money, where they come from and how they come from. And they tell us that... – I pointed out some things–, that there was margin– that Mr.Ordeig also said –, that there was margin to do things. Miri, do you really know what so much of the tickets manage the Generality of Catalonia? A 5-per-cent. Marge? That's not a margin. 95_per_cent, who manages it? The Spanish government. So, you're talking about margin to us? Of course there are things that we can do better, we are not perfect, but you, more than that, are offering us here a series of taxes that know perfectly well that they have no impact on the 2016 budget, and certainly not on 2017, because between it is approved, it is implemented and that the actual population does not affect the 2016 budget. And that's classic economics, which we all know how it works. In fact, in addition, I advise you that if you did not follow the inquiry of Mr Oriol Amat you follow her, because she will learn from infra-financing, financing model, deficit, and I think it suits her – it suits her – because it has obvious to the basic, that it is the financing model. And there's one other thing he's missing: the bulldozer. No one's talking here about the threesome. We don't receive and we're waiting for some money to send us third parties that we have on the other side. And the poor vice president – because he says poor, because he really suffers – has to go after trying to get the knuckles that many of you have said. A 5-per-cent. He'll explain that margin to me. And that we're a gesticulation woman-- Miri, we're willing to come to terms with each other, we're willing to do the right thing. Isn't that an example of the debt group that has the real will to do the right thing? , to get to do things that are actually effective? And lastly, I would recommend them, in any case, as I see that in Madrid neither you nor the SGP leaders agreed, so perhaps you should propose to Mr Ordeig and Mr Coscubiela to do the negotiations, because you have made two motions, accepting things mutually, in a way, certainly, I believe, unilateral towards the other parliamentary groups. Maybe there wouldn't be any elections in June, we're still in time. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.79.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.80.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion I would like to refer to fiscal matters and to the scope of reducing the rationalization of expenditure in the administration. Well, I wanted to say today, in a very clear way, something that for Citizens is very important: it is essential in fiscal matters to collect more if we want to have a state of well-being worthy of that name. However, collecting more does not mean or need to mean, and sometimes, even, it does not go hand in hand with increasing tax rates. One thing and the other don't necessarily go together. In Citizens we think it is about broadening the tax base. It is about broadening the tax base by reducing, eliminating deductions and bonuses that are fundamentally regressive and that make effective rates not coincide with nominal ones and that, in turn, means that we have less collection not because we have little fiscal pressure, but because we concentrate it on specific people: the middle classes and the workers. And then those deductions, as I said, to those who favor, above all, are to the upper classes, and that is what must be avoided, that is what we have to correct. We want those who have the most to pay more, and that is why we want to establish an extraordinary tax on big fortunes and create a tax office for big fortunes in the tax agency. However, we do not share the rise in inheritance and donation tax that would penalize the middle classes. What we do propose is harmonization throughout Spain and the elimination of competition between autonomous communities. And that competition between autonomous communities to what really leads to is a discharge of the inheritance tax itself. So that if we increase it here and in Madrid they continue to have it at the zero level – they have it – because the only thing we cause is an increase in the GDP of Madrid as a result of the parents..., and the donations and successions that the Catalan parents make to their children in Madrid. I mean, that's what we got. Look, in Citizens we want to set excise duties as real environmental taxes. And we want to replace the so-called'registration tax' with a CO2 emission tax. And of course we want to combat fraud, evasion, tax evasion and tax havens. But this, frankly, does not happen by a few more inspectors in the Tax Agency of Catalonia ; it is through greater collaboration and coordination of tax agencies: Catalan with the Spanish and with the agencies of other countries of the European Union ; it is through returning to the tax agency the fiscal control of the Sicav, and strengthening their control in order to avoid fraud in them; it is through strengthening the service to prevent money laundering and hardening the fines to banks that cooperate in the laundering or fraud of their customers. These are fiscal measures that we are defending. And then, finally, in the area of rationalization and reduction, because we agree with a great many or all the proposals that have been made. But we go further; we think it is necessary to simplify and reorganize the organization charts of public entities; we think we need to recast public bodies with the aim of reducing at least 25_per_cent; we need to carry out a process of concentration and sectoral fusion of public enterprises. And, to finish my speech, I would like to highlight the measure proposed by Citizens that the boards of all public enterprises should be of up to five members. With the measures that you propose most the measures that we are commenting on, we will certainly cut and we will be able to cut expenditure and make it much more effective and shift that expenditure and therefore that investment towards social and/or more productive aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.81.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.82.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot presents a motion in the line of the previous, more like a, almost, electoral program than not to a motion, which has two distinct parts: of a band, the more aseptic, more likely to spread consensus; and then, another more ideologically angry. The first includes reflections that we are gathering and that we will have no problem voting favorably: Catalonia needs some assumptions? , obviously yes; do you have to pay the Catalan joints? , of course it is; is it to fight against the tax fraud? Can Catalonia negotiate with the complicity of other autonomous communities in the legal framework a new financing system? , obviously yes; the debt? So did I. Now, what we can't raise is when we're explicitly talking about take-off; it's been explained very well before: they'll hardly lend us money if we ever announce that we don't intend to pay them. So we can't pick this up. But there are more reasonable proposals, those of point 5 – which was before the 7th –: rationalizing expenditure; eliminating unjustified subsidies; wage limitations of the charges, which are already included in the law; and as long as we do, we will vote yes. But you're going here – you're going here – that when we started to get excited about this Catalonia Yes, it can be more moderate and wide, so the interventionist soul, the postmaterialist soul of all life, emerges; in short, to scan any type of economic activity in Catalonia. And here they do apply to you with a discipline..., in short, and with a Soviet voraciousness – with the whole « love of the world» – because the rule of taxes, taxes, that detail is absolutely evocative; it is that, as said that: « is that neither the pointer is saved. They demand IAE, IRPF, property tax, inheritance, environmental taxes, transport taxes, IBI, enrollment..., everything! It's just that if this package of measures is approved, starting a business is not that it was difficult for Catalonia, it would be, as that said, homeric. It is a package of measures which, moreover, runs counter to the history of the Catalan economy: penalising family life, which is one of the keys to our history; penalizing free trade; penalizing businesses, increasing fixed costs. All the contrary of what we ask ourselves when we have sectoral meetings any deputy of this chamber, peppers, trading rooms, restaurateurs, storekeepers, industrialists... "Who are you talking to? I'm asking. Who are you talking to? Because we already know that the good companies of the CUP, so, are at war with Spain, with capitalism, with tampax, and even with marine sponges. [[Rialles.]] But, you: who are you talking to? Are they also at war with everyone, who doesn't talk to all these collectors? So he'll explain it to us, who they're talking to, to ask for all these taxes. It will be interesting, in any case, to see what is the vote of the group that collects the Government, Together for the Yes. Basically because they will decide, almost with all certainty, whether or not these measures and which ones are approved. And here I would like to insist again on an idea: you do not have a democratic mandate in the terms – which you yourselves have established – plebiscitaris to disconnect from Spain, but with a certain intellectual honesty you have to recognize that the thing remained, electorally, fairly equal. It's got to be recognizable. For what it is certain that they do not have a democratic mandate is to disconnect from the market economy and from entrepreneurship. Therefore, this must be done with great care, because it is obvious that in order to make one disconnection, there are people who are pressing them to do the other. And that would be an extraordinarily dangerous scener because... Miri, the disconnection with Spain can never be done: but things in common, but we link history; it's impossible. But in change, I do see them perfectly capable of disconnecting from reality and the real world. For that, I do see them qualified. And that would mean a big risk, which would also be disconnecting from the reality of Catalan families and businesses. And, this, I can assure you that we won't allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.83.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.84.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Madam President, you will have already proved in your own case that the complexity of the motion was important at the time of the vote. Certainly, we have tried and proposed to the Socialist Group and to Jointly to try to make a single debate, it has not been possible; nothing is happening. They will not have passed them to you unnoticed, to all groups – and I hope that neither to the media – that these votes are setting up different blocks and most different from the normal ones. Because, of course, when it's about the butxaca, when it's about eating things, the goat pulls up and everyone pulls his interests. And when it comes to fiscal and fiscal policy, the natural majority of Junts for the Yes and the CUP and, in some cases, Ciutadans, therefore, is configured very clearly. It's not random, they share ideology, assumptions – certainly, parliamentary group in Brussels: the Liberal Group on one side, the People's Group on the other. In this sense, this debate is important because it turns out that it makes it possible to set up a reality, and when it comes to economic, fiscal and presuppositional policy, things are not like when other aspects are being discussed and there are clearly different alternatives to what to do with this country. From the point of view of the discussions: it has already been said, we have worked together with the Socialist Group and we have shown that it is possible to present at the side of the chamber – that this is our intention – an axis, a block, a common core of fiscal and budgetary policy on which we sincerely believe that a majority of the left and progress in this Parliament can be set up. And who wants him to aim; and who doesn't want me to continue playing the Floral Games. With the CUP, really, it is that we are very satisfied because we have written a joint thing and it is important, because I believe – Eulàlia, if you will – that we have achieved one thing: without giving up anyone's ideology, we have managed to find a writing that allows us to make a useful layout; that, certainly, I hope that the companies, your partners of Junts for the Yes, will vote, it does not follow that, after so much disobedience, at the time of disobeying the banks, they will pile under the captiva. Well, Mr. Espinosa knows that yesterday late I gave him the opportunity to negotiate, he told me that he was, in different things, okay; that with others, no, and he's already there. With the PP it wasn't possible, because, well, he left us for impossible, he didn't introduce us anything. And with regard to Junts for the Yes, just one thing, Mrs. Maria Senserrich; it looks like she's made a kiss, huh? , our political criticism, because he devoted it all to us. It is possible to disagree, but not to lie, because you know that yesterday late we met with you, with the other spokesman of the Group of Together for Yes and with the spokesman Roger Torrent, and I told them that I could not accept your papers because to study, reflect, think, analyze..., it was no longer the time, the time was to compromise without things. I've been answering your mail, even this morning at six in the morning, that I've had family problems, because, of course, at six in the morning it's not a question to be answering these things, is it? Excuse me, huh? I don't want to offend anyone, but today you reminded me enough of Mr. Montoro, that when it turns out he didn't want to discuss politics, he provoked the opponent because that would divert attention and not discuss things. All the time, it seemed to me that you're already preparing for the opposition, because you don't do the job... we do the job, we do it badly and you criticize us. You've forgotten one thing: the government is you, the opposition is us and on our God that we do things wrong. Do them well and we won't have to come here to tell you... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.85.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.86.0	Educational concerts, public transport and banking: mulleu vous, ma'am consellera. Educational concerts... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, educational concerts with sex-secreting schools, remember? So, I think it'll come out of here approved. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.87.0	We're calling it a vote. I'm guessing them, though, that the only points we have in this young man are the letters from and out of point 4.g. All the rest, if we weren't wrong, we were analyzing it, and it was voted, approved or rejected, but it was voted. That's to say, they demand that on another occasion, so, that doesn't happen again, huh? I'm telling you two new things, we've all voted for it, approved it or rejected it. Then, in any case, we don't have to talk, as I said before, to the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau, huh? Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.88.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.89.0	I'm fifteen or seven, already, who asked me for the People's Party, or so it's possible that we end up voting it all separately as before. Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa, what are they?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.90.0	So, points 3a, b and c... no, sorry, these have changed, or so these, no, these haven't. Point four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.91.0	The 4th?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.92.0	Point 4.a, b, c, d, it's... all, all separately. And the 5, the 5, the b-point separately, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.93.0	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.94.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.95.0	Yes, yes..., the 4 all separate. [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Mrs. Rovira?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.96.0	Also to ask for a separate vote. Do I need it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.97.0	What points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.98.0	Of '1, 2, 3, 4, 4.b, 4.d, 4.f, 4.g, 5.a, 5.b, 5.c, 5.d, 5.e i 5.f, 5.l, 5.m and 5.n.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.99.0	We will vote for it all separately, because it seems to me that between what the People's Party has asked me, Mr. Carrizosa and you, it is better that we vote for it all separately. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] I repeat now – and I said before – that almost all the points that we are going to vote on now have been voted on before, that there are only three points for us. Anyway, so, let's take it into account, what it could be... let's hope the same votes go out. We decided that we would vote separately and, therefore, start... Why ask me the word, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.100.0	Allusions to the president, may I?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.101.0	Yeah, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.102.0	Madam President, before we have tried to pass legally, but it is the second time that you publicly deny us, deny us this – in general – about things that can't be done. I would remind you that the president should be more cautious, because a president who has agreed to vote on motions against the criteria of the judicial servants of the chamber should be cautious. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] I should be careful. A president who has accepted the suspension of the plenary for other things should not be retreating to the groups we have been doing an unprovoked job, which unfortunately...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.103.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Coscubiala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.104.0	We apologize, please, don't deny us again, because you don't have the authority, you, to do so, after what you've done with the motion... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.105.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Coscubiala. I'm chairing the chamber, you're holding the door, which is what's next to him. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I... I didn't renege on the public, I seem to have reneged on the whole chamber before we voted for it. [[Widow's remorse.]] And it's not denying, it's simply saying, it's making a warning because we've voted for it all before, quite simply. Thank you very much. Let's start the vote. We'll vote all points separately. Let's start the vote..., let's start the vote. So, as I said, we'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Next, we vote point number two. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 72, with 24 abstentions. We're voting 3rd point now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 27 votes to 71, with 34 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. It was rejected by 27 in favour, 81 against and 24 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.c. The vote begins. It was rejected by 27 in favour, 71 against and 34 abstentions. We're voting point 4.a now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.b. The vote begins. It was rejected by 35 votes in favour.....forgived 37 votes in favour, 71 against and 24 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. We're voting point 4.e now. The vote begins. It was approved by 98 votes to 10, with no abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, now yeah, now we're voting now on the 4th, I'm sorry... The vote begins. It was rejected by 37 votes to 61, with 34 abstentions. We will now vote on 4.f. The vote begins. It was rejected by 37 votes to 71, with 24 abstentions. Now we'll vote on 4.g. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The vote is suspended. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] We have been asked to vote separately, yes. So, now we're voting... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, the 4g.a. The vote begins. It was approved by 47 votes to 85. Now we're voting 4.g.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 37 votes to 10, with 85 abstentions. Now we'll vote on 4.g.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 37 votes to 10, with 85 abstentions. Now we'll vote on the 4th.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 37 votes to 95. We'll vote on 4.g.h. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] L'h, 4.h, yes, 4.h; 4.h, yes – 4.h. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, 4.g.h; that's it, look. [[Pause.]] Well, it's the text..., the text is: "Recover the deposit on the bank deposits defined in Law 4/2014. It's 4:00, it's this. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] We shall repeat the vote. I read the text, huh? ; the text says: « Recover the deposit on the bank deposits defined in Law 4/2014. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's this text. [[Pause.]] That's the text we have here, isn't it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Therefore, we repeat the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 82 votes to 34, with 15 abstentions. Now we're going to vote on point 5a–5a. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Now we'll vote on 5.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes to 46, with 25 abstentions. Now we'll vote on 5.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 59, with 1 abstention. Now we'll vote on point 5.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 70 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. We'll vote 5th now. The vote begins. There is a tie; there is a tie left: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 10 abstentions. According to the Rules, we have to repeat the vote, according to the Rules. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.106.0	To ask..., if we could ask you to re-vote point 5, because we have also had..., the points of..., 5.b..., 5... or then we asked for a separate vote from point b, but then, with the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We've done it, but will we repeat it too? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So... so we've had a bit of a mix-up and I wanted to explain the meaning of the vote on point b, then.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.107.0	The feeling of the vote can explain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.108.0	Correct.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.109.0	...but the vote will not be repeated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.110.0	Okay. If we didn't repeat them, we would have voted, at point b, abstention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.111.0	The 5.b?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.112.0	Yeah. And by mistake we voted yes. We voted that yes by mistake at point b and we wanted to vote abstention, because in any case we understand that this point contradicts the current law. And, therefore, we cannot give support to a point that goes against the law in force.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.113.0	See... [[Pause.]] Let's repeat the 5.f vote, because, according to the Rules, when there is a tie, you repeat the vote. Tell me, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.114.0	Yes; that we also refer to the question that you had raised of manifesting the principle, that we are voting things that have already been voted in this Parliament. And we, too, as on this occasion we voted differently from what we voted on other occasions on this point, because we abstained exactly from the same vote as in the other vote, so now by mistake we voted that yes and we wanted to express [[remorse of the voice]] We wanted to say that the previous time we had voted abstained. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.115.0	Mr. Millo, why have we asked for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.116.0	Yes; in contradiction, President. [[Pause.]] Very briefly, with fifteen seconds to go. Just to remind the spokesman of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group that, in the previous vote, this point we have already voted, in fact, that it was point number 16, and they voted yes, exactly the same as now, huh? [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.117.0	Mrs. Rovira – Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.118.0	This was a little related to what you gave to the principle of voting, which we are voting on identical points in two different motions, and this has caused some confusion. Whatever happens that, voted, voted are, let's say. Anyway, at the doorknobs, I think that's where we need to talk about these questions. And if you trade two points of two different motions, you vote one _only cop, in one motion or another. What he didn't feel was to vote twice on two different motions. I think you're common sense. [[Some applause. Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.119.0	Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.120.0	Thank you, Madam President. I can't agree more with Mrs. Marta Rovira; the only thing I've tried until the last moment and I've put it to the attaché, Mr. Roger Torrent, and he said no. [[Widow's remorse.]] Then, another time... another time, we'll clear it up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.121.0	Let's go back to voting for the e. [[Roger Torrent and Ramio ask to speak.]] Mr. Torrent. And see if we finish and continue the vote. [[Pause.]] Yeah, yeah, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.122.0	President, for obvious allusions. Mr. Coscubiela, the owners of the motions are you and the PSC; decide how you vote. Anyway, you asked me if there could be a single debate, and I told you not at the debate, but we didn't talk about how it's voted, because the owners of the motions are you and you decide it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.123.0	Therefore, we repeat the vote on point 5.e – e. Recordin – recordin – have remained tied 61 to 61, and according to the Rules we are repeating the vote of point 5.e. Therefore, the vote on item 5e begins. Similarly, the result is the same: 61 votes in favour, 61 against. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But it has to be suspended; it has to be suspended the plenary, the session, and we call for a vote in case someone is missing and there can be a breakdown. So we're going to call for a vote and see if we're lucky and missing someone. (Laughter.) Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's that we're completing the Rules; that's what you say. [[Widow's remorse.]] To the propriety, to the propriety vote, according to the Rules, if there is again a tie, it is considered rejected, eh? But what the Rules say is this: let's call it a vote, let's go back to voting, and if it's stuck with it, it'll be rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.124.0	Let's resume the session. Let's go back to voting point 5. The vote begins. It was rejected; 60 votes in favour, 62 against and 10 abstentions. Keep going. Let's go vote on 5.f. The vote begins. It was adopted by 71 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Then we vote on point 5.g. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 in favour, against 10 abstentions. Then we vote at 5 a.m. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.i. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on 5.J. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.k. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.l. The vote begins. It was adopted by 71 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote at 5.m. The vote begins. It was adopted by 70 votes to one, with 61 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 5th. The vote begins. It was approved by 71 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into security policies]] [[302-00026/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on security policies presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord Matías Alonso. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, because we're going a long time. Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.125.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, to the question of the previous Ple I have already announced the main aspects and questions that include this motion, and I have also announced to the counsel that perhaps we would agree on many of these questions, because conceptually we already agree. It is questions, all of them, that have a direct influence on the effective performance of this service that we think is essential, that it is that of security, that it is intimately linked to freedom, that it is intimately linked to coexistence, that it is intimately linked to the defense of our model of society. Starting from the basis of the important lack of effectiveness of the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos, which may have originally been poorly dimensioned, some effects that – we must remember – are calculated on the demands of almost a decade ago, in which there has been a demographic evolution, in which there has also been a clearer globalization of some of the threats, such as terrorism, such as organized crime, some threats that have become even more global but always, and now, require coordinated responses, responses that allow them to be more effective and more efficient... Therefore, it is important to deepen collaboration, coordination, because they are essential, this coordination and this collaboration between the different parts of security, in order to guarantee this essential good that is security. We have the tool, the instrument that is essential for this necessary political coordination, which is the Security Board of Catalonia. Therefore, in this motion we ask for this call with a specific content too, because it is the political space in which it is to be built, in which it is to be pushed, in which it is to be strengthened this operational coordination which is necessary between these bodies and which for Ciutadans must be complete, it must be, let us say, total, with absolute institutional loyalty, which always involves a loyalty with the conjunction of the citizens, which is important, very important, for all of us in this room. What the citizens expect, what we want is precisely this best coordination, the best possible coordination, to strengthen the democratic struggle against risks and threats, against security, against the freedom of all. The lack of effect calls, moreover, for a super-effort. It is necessary to ensure, in one band, the provision of protective elements. The counselor was talking to us about going to this concept of personal protective equipment as well; therefore, we need to keep the armor working so that they are available to all agents. But I also need to have an external shell of hours against the contingency fund that allows you to complete with the specific anti-terrorist operating program especially and with the need for service that entails this lack of effectiveness. Establish, together with the Government of Spain, mechanisms for integration and coordination of information and intelligence. The Squadron Mosses and the rest of the bones and security forces of the State, from institutional loyalty, from intercostual loyalty, must also have the best tools to achieve this better performance of this service. We have presented a motion that originally had twelve points and collected all these questions, such as, for example, also, studying the availability of imaging devices from police vehicles, or establishing, with urgency, enhancing the training plans of both the Generality Police - Mosos d'Esquadra as well as integrating into these training plans local police to improve in questions such as fighting, detecting, preventing Gihadist terrorism, or also improving in detention techniques, in immobilization techniques that, while there are no other instruments, allow it to do so in the best conditions. We also want to review the effectiveness of the Professional Career Platform, especially in the area of citizen security agents, which is often unassisted. And finally, remember that the Squadron Mosses continue to respect the democratic demand, which they already respect, to maintain an absolute loyalty to the citizens, with an absolute, also, and clear political neutrality in the exercise of their functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.126.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.127.0	Good morning, all of you. If they have been fixed, there has been an interesting debate over security in the last few weeks, around security; a partial debate, it is true, because it touched different partial themes around security, but it marked the priority themes, which marked those in which we agree and those in which we do not. With the increase in effectiveness and with the Catalan Security Board, for example, it has become clear that we are all in agreement. We are clear that we want him to be summoned, that he is desirable and even indispensable with the situation we have at the table, and that he is summoned directly by the President of the Generalitat. But I think we also understand the explanations that the Councillor gave yesterday, yesterday: the President's summons must be done in agreement with the State, because the order of the day must be agreed and because they must send their five representatives because it can be constituted in a formal way. It happens, by the way, with so many things, that you have to deal with the State... In the area of reincorporation after a voluntary excess – I have already told Ciutadans's company and company – we agree with the will and hope, but we do not think it is the way to carry it to term, because it is against the law, according to our humble point of view. On the issue of equipment in general, both security – regulatory armament, anti-ball armor, short-arms fonds, with adequate maintenance – as well as work – uniformity – I also believe we are all in agreement. We must ensure that all professionals who are dedicated to safety have the right, no less than necessary, taking into account the climatic and any other conditions that may influence the performance of the services, the equipment necessary to maintain the safety of professionals who are each day pending from our security and who need to act in conditions, because they sometimes face real situations and want to be prepared for us. The subject of the information. If I may, here's a curious thing: we agree with the background, but we address the issue from different points of view, sometimes even contradictory. For example, Ciutadans in his proposal today and together for Yes or the government are saying the same, in different form but the same. Mechanisms of integration and coordination between Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, rest of the bones and forces of security of the State: some mark that is done, as the company of Ciutadans has said, from the strictest institutional loyalty – Ciutadans ; that, certainly, allow me to comment that institutional loyalty is like good faith, I believe that it must always be presumed and given for absolutely obvious –, and the others are asking that Mosssos d'Esquadra, as the integral police of Catalonia that is, attend all meetings where it is about security. But it's nothing, it's absolutely nothing; it's obvious. Catalonia has an integral police force and it is in the interest of its people, in the interests of Catalans and Catalans... it must have a presence, this police force, in all the bodies where security is concerned. And if we are talking about European and international bodies, so too: there must be no problem. And, if the concern is coordination with the State, in these meetings it is not too complicated, the solution: that an early meeting be instituted between the bodies and security forces of the State, including the autonomous police, and now, there is no major problem. But it's logical for me, Mossos d'Esquadra, to be represented at these meetings. As for coordination and transposition between Squad Mossos and the local police, we have chosen from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to mark especially the substance of bi-directionality, because despite the efforts that I think are being made by this councillor and that, in reality, I believe that they are beginning to be noticed, for example in the decentralized formation on the detection and prevention of radicalism and gihadism together with the local police, the Proderai, as far as information is concerned, I still believe that we have a lot of margin of improvement. And it's that, clearly speaking, if I may say so: we're all working together with this coordination between Squad Moisson and local police, and there are still hard issues that I think need to be resolved. And I am thinking, concretely, of the lack of access to the SIP, for example, or of the impossibility of data exploitation by local police. If we really believe that there are various uniforms but there is only one police, if we really want to pull a law out of the police system with this clear philosophy, we have to stop passing that local police seeming sometimes the auxiliaries or the "seconds of the Mossos". It is not a waste that feeds the databases of the Mosses and that they cannot carry out their treatment or exploitation; it is not logical that there is a limitation on the claims that can be served and that they are not being asked for more without a solution from more than eight years ago. With the recording of images from police vehicles and from the personnel endowment of the agents, totally agree, to avoid possible episodes of misuse of force, but also to ensure the safety of the same agents, which avoids the shadow of doubt before false accusations of this misuse of force. The professional career plate of the civic security units, please. It is a matter of pure justice for these professionals who are on the road every day. And finally, political neutrality and the defence of legality, "impedible, completely obvious, but at the same time something else that should also be given for absolutely supposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.128.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then there is the word Lluís Guinó, of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.129.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Members, Members, let me first of all make a point, and it is certain that, in the area of security, all parliamentary groups have agreements or proposals of agreement which are interesting from our point of view and which, in fact, is the reason for which in many questions we are talking, we are talking and we are talking in Parliament. But sometimes what are good intentions do not just coincide exactly with what is the political practice of certain governments. I say this, in concrete terms, for the reason that it has to do with the Local Security Board, with the Security Board of Catalonia, that, certainly, all parliamentary groups agree that it is to be convened – in fact it has not been convened since 2009 – but it is to be agreed on the agenda, and therefore it is not a unilateral decision of the Government of the Generality, but it is to be agreed with the Government of the State. Today– today–, today, comes at a first moment when, as the government is in operation, the Security Board cannot be convened. In fact, this being in function serves as an argument not to compare to Parliament, to the General Courts, too, for what it does to the Government of the State. So the question that you have to deal with is actually going to end up in the Constitutional Court, and we'll see what the Constitutional Court says. But, for another band, it is also true that the government today does not have access to counter-terrorism meetings that are taking place, for example, in Brussels. And at the last meeting that it was done, precisely, it was agreed with all the interior ministers of the countries that, for what it does to the question that it has to do with gihadism, there is an absolutely indispensable, necessary and precept, at last, that it is the greatest integration, collaboration and coordination of all the police bodies. If there is a police force in Catalonia that has specific counter-terrorism functions, it is obvious that they must be fully informed, coordinated and in continuous collaboration and with the treatment of information without doubt. Therefore, sometimes what are great principles here in Parliament must be translated into political practice and sometimes the theoretical principles do not coincide with political practice. There's another interesting question about this young man who has to deal with an effort that has to be made or that has to be made by the police from a clearly democratic police perspective, which is that we are in favour of, from Juntes per el Si, that there are mechanisms for registering in the police vehicles so that, for one band, you can see exactly what police practice is in all cases, and, for another, also, that you serve as an information mechanism for their performance. This gives, from our perspective, a fully democratic character to a police force which, from our perspective, from a country perspective, has an integral character. And in this we also agree with the Ciutadans Group, what happens is that, sometimes, this coincidence of integral character is interpreted differently. For us, the Mossos d'Esquadra and the local polices form a single police force that develops its task in Catalonia and that, precisely, in the announcement of the councillor at the last plenary session that explained that we were precisely in the process of working and initiating what is the legislative process for a new law to the police, one of the vertebrate principles of this new law will be precisely that the Mossos d'Esquadra are the integral police of the country and, as such, must participate actively in all the questions they have to see with the challenges of security in Catalonia. We came with good eyes, too, asking for more material resources for the Squad Mosses. This has an indisputable prospect of supposition. And, therefore, from here I demand, also, that in the measure that they are, in some way..., or try from the Parliament to demand that the Squadron Mosses have more resources, I also say that the only way that the Squadron Mosses have resources is to approve the assumptions or approve those parties that give, in some way, legitimacy to these claims. There is another question, which you have also made reference to and which I find interesting to highlight, and it is what you have to see with the formation. It is obvious that the Police School has the objective and the need – and, moreover, the need – to go vertebrate slowly, a training system that, from a general perspective, has very good acceptance and that works very well. Yes, it is true, and we fully understand the interest, that local police can also take advantage of this educational ability of the Police School. And, for another band, also respond to the global needs of the new security issues, which are the issues that they have to see with their own security citizen and with a very specific issue that they have to see with gihadism: that they need different defence mechanisms and that they need different security mechanisms and different approaches from those that have developed so far. The question of terrorism varies, change of approach, the one that has the Mossos d'Esquadra or the police in general..., they have the need to face this new reality, too, with us medians. And it is from this perspective that I seem to be interested, precisely, in putting into value the work that the Police School is doing. Therefore, from this perspective, and finalizing my intervention, we will vote practically, or in its totality, the points that we have negotiated and agreed, and I thank, above all, the positive character that interventions have in the field of security in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.130.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there is the word Joan Josep Nuet, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.131.0	Thank you, President. This morning we arrived at the premise that of the forty-six points that President Puigdemont delivered to President Rajoy yesterday, one of them is the issue of security policies, and, concretely, the issue of financing of the Mossos, and that the vice presidents, the vice president and the vice president, will make this concrete. We are loving this realization that it should be produced in the next few weeks. And, therefore, we should have good news from the point of view of the meeting of the Security Board, from the point of view of police coordination, from the point of view of the deployment of the Mossos, from the point of view of the financing of this public service. So let's hope that happens. Okay. In this young man, I believe, of the Ciutadans Group, we agree on five aspects that I want to highlight from the background, and, sometimes, therefore, we can discuss more or less with elements of writing, but it is important that, in the background, we work in a line that looks like it. The first is to convene the Junta de Seguretat de Catalunya. It's an emergency that's been going on for a while and now, at this specific moment, it's especially important, therefore, its convening. According to: everything you have to see with a pattern of moves, everything you have to see with equipment of moves to do your job, everything you have to see with operational images, cameras. Yes, we have cameras: the police stations, the armories, the vehicles and everything else you need, because anything that can capture a camera in a police action can be stored – cap. Therefore, everything that the cameras will pick up will be mandatory in the democratic parameters that mark police action. And also, in this block, the professional career: clearly the moves have straight up. And, therefore, career is an important aspect. The third aspect we agree with is coordination and information. I said it yesterday, I say it today, you say it, we say it all. Police efficiency and security policies are a central element in coordination and information policies. Without coordination and without information organized crime has a capacity for development that exceeds the police capabilities of the world, and, obviously, the terrorist threat is another reality that we are beginning to be better informed and coordinated, both coordination and information to the other bodies and security forces of the State as to the local police, which is an extension of the police of Catalonia, and that is nothing more than part of the police of Catalonia in its local white. And this bidirectional idea suggested by the Socialist Group I think is uncertain, it's an annal and it's a sharing of information, I think it's important. Four aspects we share: the formation, always with the leadership of the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia. I think it's one of the aspects that we can be proud of and proud of. We have a formative aspect that is pioneering, many European police wanted to have the integrity that means the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia. And, therefore, we have to form on a continuous basis, both on the move and on the local police, and, therefore, on the format aspect. And I finish: obviously, the political neutrality – the political neutrality – of an institution that we must preserve, an institution that is the police of Catalonia, that we must preserve it from the political scourge, and therefore, that, regardless of our political positions, the Mosso d'Esquadra are an important institution for the country and one of the vectors of public security and public security policies of our country. We would therefore vote in favour of the motion that has been brought to the House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.132.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Parliamentary Group Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.133.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , from the People's Group I warn you that we will support much of the motion that you put forward, because we share much of what you put and go in line with the philosophy of the motion that we tabled fifteen days ago in this plenary. It is true that we want a abstention on the first point, because, everything and agreeing that the Catalan Security Board is to be convened and must be assembled, it can be an excuse or an oxygen balloon not to make that revision, in which we agree that it has to be done, of the number of troops of Mossos d'Esquadra. There is no need to bring the Security Board together to reach that agreement. And coordination with the rest of the police forces outside the Security Board is already underway. Therefore, we believe that with this point you give him an oxygen ball to be able to delay that review of troops that we need. They are also talking about a number of aspects that we believe need to be addressed within the security plan review, as we argued fifteen days ago, such as, for example, improving coordination between Mossos d'Esquadra and the rest of the security forces, including the local police; in which coordination leaves much to be desired, not because of the police officers, but because of the political leaders of the Generalitat, who decide the degree of coordination and information given to the local police. To improve and intensify the continuous training of the agents, of course, Chambers to ensure the good exercise of the mossos, also, in the police stations; but, also, outside, in the streets, in those most conflicting points. To support all the improvements and reinforcements necessary to strengthen the fight against jihadist terrorism, of course. Two-hour talks, that is not training, it is necessary to provide continuous and up-to-date information to combat the global danger of jihadist terrorism, i.e. information, training, preparation and coordination. And on the improvement of the material means for the good service of police officers, I would highlight two: one is the vests antiballa, where there are a large number of mossos d'esquadra and unions that worry about the number and quality of these. In this regard, we have asked the Councillor several questions in writing, which we expect. Because if we remember the facts of Santa Coloma, we must remember that surely there is a mosso d'esquadra alive because an agent left him his vest bulletproof, and we cannot leave the security of the agents of Mossos d'Esquadra to chance. And then, the gun covers themselves, which we have big doubts about what they're going to buy. We are told that it is the same model or of the same characteristics of 2009. Those are not the best for the good service of Mossos d'Esquadra. They will be of quality, but they are not of great use. And I'm going to explain it to you with a practical example. This is the gun or cartridge that uses Urban Guard; this is the one that uses Mossos d'Esquadra. [[The orator shows two.]] This isn't anti-theft, I won't force it much, but if it does so..., see that it can break easily. That, in a struggle, a squad mosso can be ripped off. Therefore, many mossos d'ésquadra do not use it – do not use it – because it does not guarantee their safety. This is from the Urban Guard, it's one-piece and it's anti-theft; this is the one the Mossos d'Esquadra want. What is best for the service of Mossos d'Esquadra: « a o« b? The answer is simple. And with this I want to say that it cannot be that the trade unions of the Mossos d'Esquadra, as direct representatives of the agents, cannot give their opinion on the material to be acquired to improve their service and safety; neither voice nor opinion. And I'm telling you, because you're going to... besides the safety of citizens, you're going to have your own life. And finally, Mr. Alonso, we share with one hundred_per_cent the final part of the motion, which is the non-politicization of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, which must give good service to the citizen always complying with the law. A police force is the guarantor of compliance with regulations, ordinances and the law. What message do we give to society if we tell a police officer to break the current rule? Precisely to them who have to protect it, who have to guarantee it. It would be an absurd situation, as well as irresponsible. Any attempt to politicize the police and any attempt to give an indication or insinuation of non-compliance with the current rules is and would be a position that is beyond all the margins of democracy. We hope that this Government will never do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.134.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mrs. Mireia Vehí", "Candidature of Unity"..., no, I see that it is not Ms. Mireia Vehí, but that it is Mr. Benet Salellas, "Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.135.0	President... deputies, deputies, after you want to talk about the real problems and the concerns of the people of the street. I would like to say that the concern of the independentist bench in favour of proposals for construction and republican optimism is directly proportional to the concern for the security of the constitutionalist bench. We chained up, already, three plenary sessions talking about security to instances, first, of the PP, after Ciutadans, the company Nuet yesterday already planted that in the own Ple we will have a motion of respect... And, therefore, it remains that the PSC holds you to whom and who will also have some reason to continue to use the question of security politically. So, as far as this perspective is concerned, we too will give our political perspective. Yesterday Anna Gabriel said so when she said that in order to defend freedom and to fight against fascism – she spoke concretely yesterday of Sabadell, but it is a vision that is also extrapolable to the problems of gihadism and fascism in the Middle East – therefore, in order to defend freedom, precisely, what it is to guarantee rights, to guarantee political rights and above all to guarantee social rights, to ensure that no one is left behind, and to avoid, in our hear, fascism here, to the French suburbs and run. Because on the basis that in the debate on arms, on gihadism, on formation, which is raised to motions no one comes to analyze its causes, no one comes to pose on the table which are the causes for which Daesh exists or for which there is today the problem of gihadism. Is it true that the defenders of the Spanish State do not think of self-criticizing Spanish international politics? Are you, as a military man, Mr Alonso, not thinking of self-criticizing the responsibility of the Spanish armed forces in the creation of political, social and all-embracing chaos that has given little to the precise creation of Daesh and Islamist fascism in the Middle East area? I accuse the Kingdom of Spain, and mainly its army, of having participated in the international coalition that occupied Iraq, which has killed thousands of people, which has practised heavy torture and harassment against the civilian population, which has completely destroyed a society that was advanced, educated and a referent for the secular Arab world. And, all this, to whose or from whom, did the Spanish army, of which you form a part, Mr. Alonso? In favor of the big multinational oil companies. That's why, for this Spanish army servant to the interests of the big oil multinationals, today we have Daesh, that's why today we have the problem of gihadism and that's why there are these security issues. For this reason, to speak of international security and the struggle against Gihadism, first of all to unravel the causes – the occupation of Iraq – to judge those responsible, to assume the consequences of such a difficult attack on a country and to recognize, repair and guarantee that it will not be repeated. From here, we can start building a new, just and different scheme of international relations, and we can regain some moral and political legitimacy to talk about security. For the time being, while this does not happen, we refuse to continue discussing hypocritically about security in our home. And that's why we'll vote against your young lady. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.136.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mr. Matías Alonso".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.137.0	Thank you, President. Well, after the last intervention, we see that there is no novelty in the front. And, well, it's a predictable reading. I'm not surprised at all. And, therefore, you don't deserve to comment anymore, at least for my part. I will enter the papers, the papers that have been accepted, that have been most of the papers presented, that in a certain way have come to enrich also the final text of the motion. Tell them we've traded up to six items together for the Yes and we've traded one of those items together with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We also admit the slogan referred to in point 2, a slogan that we really think that... we did not want, in this case, to accept with its aim to force the letter of the law, the letter of the rule in force in Catalonia for which it makes the regulation of the voluntary surplus, in this case of the Catalans. But we still think that it's necessary, we still think that we need to rethink it, specifically in a thing like the Squad's Cos de Mossos, in which you can't fill the shortages with other elements, such as, for example, the contracting of internal functions. So, we think there's a need. And on this occasion what we did not want is, neither, to try to force the law's expert, because in the law's expert perhaps there was enough discretion on the part of the Generality to do so. The need to strengthen the mechanisms of coordination and active, direct participation of all police..., I think we have a broad consensus. Therefore, I must also remind you that there are demands that in a certain way make the same professionals. It is the professionals who are clear who are also their cares. Therefore, I believe that there is a very broad consensus in this chamber, and I also agree in the reading, that it was also the will of this young man, to focus precisely on aspects such as the need to convene the Board of Security of Catalonia, which is not an oxygen bullet, as Mr. Villagrasa said, because we are talking about a co-responsibility, also institutional. I mean, it's a shared responsibility. While the direct responsibility for convening and presiding over this board corresponds to the President of the Generality, it is a bipartisan board. The members of the Government of Spain must therefore be involved. Therefore, I hope there is a general consensus around this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.138.0	Call it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.139.0	To ask for a separate vote on the first point. The first point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.140.0	The first point. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.141.0	He asked for a separate vote on the 6th and 7th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.142.0	Six and seven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.143.0	Six and seven. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.144.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 6 and 7. Therefore, we will vote first on these three points and then on the rest of the motion. Let's vote, then, point number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 109 votes to 10, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. It was approved by 120 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 10, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the improvement of health care]] [[302-00028/11]] The point of the order of the day is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the improvement of health care, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Lord Santi Rodriguez. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.145.0	Deputies, please, who should be absent from the chamber the nail that goes out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.146.0	Thank you, Vice President. This is the motion following the question about health care that we were going to ask during the previous session. And we have presented a young man with five great themes, five great chords, and which refer to the following elements. A first block refers to the primary, and what we are asking in this case is that we are perfectly analyzing what the situation of primary care centres is, we are also looking at the possibility of recovering the times of those primary care centres which at the time were closed, up to forty-seven in total, so that we can attend to smaller emergencies in a way closer to the city. We are also calling for an analysis of the creation of specific units, especially in the cases of central sensitisation syndrome, in primary centres, to create specialized units. But it also provides more resolutive capacity for primary care centres. All this to try to decongest the conjunction of the health system. We understand, and share, in fact, with the government, the need for it to take primary care so as to try to decongest and give a better service, obviously, to patients and citizens in general. A_second element refers to hospital centers. And in this sense we expressed the will of precision to what the president gave in his public appearance before yesterday: to reverse the details. So yes, let's take the parliamentary compromise to reverse the cuts in sanitation, to recover the assumptions of sanitation, because there are aspects of sanitation that do not have a solution if it is not from more resources. And, in this sense, the issue of waiting lists is obvious, and I think we all agree, that... the best and practically the only way to improve people's attention and reduce waiting lists, that at this time they extend to 926,000 people, is to provide more resources for sanitation. This is one of the themes, one of the five themes, which we also touch on this young man, and on the whole..., the fact that the Vice President and Economic Advisor has now left, but in the sense that today the Government has an authority to spend 800_million more than it did not have today, let us hope that this is especially known in the presuppositions of salvation, and all these measures that are approved today or approved in other previous or subsequent initiatives may be due to the end and no minutes of lack of presuppositions come. For what he does to hospitals, we also touch on a subject that we know is controversial, that is the participation of private ownership centers in the common goal, that is public health, the sanitation of the population. And what we're saying is that it's a common sense: the extent to which the public system is capable of providing services to citizens, that it gives them the public system; if the public system doesn't have that capacity, let's arrange it with the private centers. But what we can't do is to break the deal with private centers without having made the necessary investments in the public system because from the public system we can attend to all those leads that go to private centers today. And, ultimately, that's something that we think is enough common sense, with an objective, I insist, that it's giving service and good service to the citizen, giving a good service to the ill, giving a good service to the patient, is what we propose in this young man. And, finally, two fears that are not because I left in the end are less important. One, let's try to do what we have already given in committee in relation to the participation of the pharmacies in the public health system, in the Catalan health system. The pharmacy offices are professionally based, they have an extraordinary capil·laritat in the territory, they are distributed in the territory, they are more than three_ thousand pharmacy offices that we have in Catalonia, and that can perform a function in the health system, they can perform functions to the full of attention to certain chronicities, of prevention of certain diseases, of counseling to the patients. And, therefore, take advantage of this network as important as we have. And finally I will dedicate five seconds, which is much more than the Councillor, to the Consorci Sanitari del Maresme, to the Hospital of Mataró, which needs urgent solutions, needs immediate solutions, and what we do in this place is precisely to reaffirm the resolutions that already exist in this Parliament in relation to the Consorci Hospitalari del Maresme and ask that the Government take awareness of the urgency – worth the redundancy – that there is to address the problem of the Hospital of Mataró. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.147.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Three parliamentary groups have presented papers on this motion. In the first term, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes that is Pot, the deputy Lord Albano Dante.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.148.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning, everybody. Today the People's Party presents us with a young man wearing a title that pleases us: "improvement of health care. In fact, when this motion came to our parliamentary group we had to read it two times, because the first time we read it we said: "Ostres, the People's Party went to the struggle for public health. I am saying this because, if we read the motion, except point 3.c, that it is nothing more than an attempt to defend the interests of private sanitation, we agree on everything and we will vote for it. Now, I must ask you, Members of the People's Party: how dare you present this motion? How dare you present this young man this week, precisely when it's four years since you approved Royal Decree 17/2012, which left thousands of people without a health card? [[Some applause.]] How dare you come here to see that you defend public health when this decree was a bit of a state against the right to health care, a bit of a state with dead names and surnames? And how dare you act as public health advocates when this decree is thirty years of consensus and converts a universal health system of quality and efficiency as we have into a health system suitable for the franchise? I know how you dare... We've only made one point, that of repealing Royal Decree 16/2012, and you said no to us, and you made it clear which is your view of the public health system: to negotiate with the salvation of citizens and people. And it's proven, I haven't invented it, it's proven; just to look at what happened to public sanitation where public sanitation has fallen into your hands. We've all seen it; we've all seen it in Madrid, in Galicia, in Castile - La Mancha, in Valencia, where we've seen how you've served public sanitation to enrich and enrich your friends' businesses. That's... don't say no, because this is perfectly documented; it's documented as in various autonomous communities you've served sanitation to enrich businesses like Capio, Adelas, DKW, PricewaterhouseCoopers, the ACS builder. It is also perfectly documented as Güemes and Lasquetty, who are from his party, who were Health Councillors in Madrid, have made themselves rich thanks to public sanitation and to the revolving doors. That's a lot of documentation. And it's also documented how the Gürtel plot gave gifts to Ana Mato, who, I remind you, was a minister of Sanitat and a member of his party. And as long as we're talking about Ana Mato, I mean... that was published today, right? : « Aguire and Mato gave Ausbanc 640,000_euros when the Gürtel exploded – health money for the Mafia. It's published today. But, well, you came to talk about the improvement of healthcare, it seems that you are now concerned about the salvation of people, when your policies during these years have made this society sick; they have made it sick of corruption, they have made it sick of inequality, they have made it sick of poverty. It seems that you have not heard of the determinants of salvation. If you haven't heard of it, I explain to you that the determinants of salvation tell us that the salvation of people, this greeting that you are so concerned about now, is determined by various factors: it is not good for the salvation that you are being saved from home with public money; it is not good for the salvation that you are working for a wage of misery all day; it is not good for the salvation that the bank robs you with the connivance of the Government; it is not good for the salvation to go to Europe from the hand of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia to collect the TTIP, which is an attack on the public health system. And you dare come today to say that you care about health care. And you came to complain, in addition, about the health system that Mr. Boi Ruiz left us. In the end, everything you said was done by someone, and it was done by Convergence. And we, in this, agree; we, too, are against what the Democratic Convergence has done with the salvation of this country, but there is a difference: we disagree and criticize it and denounce it because we believe in a public health system; in your case, it seems to me that you criticized it because, unlike other autonomous communities, you, in Catalonia, have not been able to participate in the looting of public health. Look...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.149.0	Mr. Congressman, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.150.0	... – I finish – you have full right to present what you consider appropriate; you have all right to disguise yourself as defenders of public health, but we have the obligation to remove you. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has also presented papers. And, in her name, the honourable Member now has the word Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.152.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies, deputies, no..., my intervention will focus on the text of the motion. I think Mr Rodríguez said when he presented it, the Member: it is a motion to put back things that have been approved and things that we will, of course, continue with motions for resolutions to committees or motions in this very plenary, which, in some ways, is an obvious general answer..., because if there were so many of the other issues that are now under discussion, from health transport, as many of the other aspects that have been dealt with..., but my group has not presented these points either, because it was not so much a full one, but rather focused on some of the aspects that we believe were important today. In general terms my group coincides with what is raised in this motion both for what it does to the issue of waiting lists as to strengthening the community network. When we talk about the community network we talk about primary care, but we also talk about the pharmacy offices, and in this sense, to recover some of the things that were approved in the previous legislature about the community pharmacy and that would be worth it if we were able to pull forward on planning and development of what the community pharmacy is. Someone told us that the other day, didn't they? , that in some places, for the closing of the CAPs at night and the reduction of hours, in areas not too dense, the pharmacist is the only reference of salvation that remains in many hours, and not because it is open the pharmacy, only because everyone knows where to see the professional, and therefore can go there. For what he does to the hospital centers, yesterday my group presented an inquiry around..., the centers of the Siscat and the maintenance. And, therefore, everything and convert..., and share everything that is – and yesterday it was said – reverse the shortcuts, obviate the referrals to the private centers, more quickly end these referrals to the private centers. In this line we will not give support to point 3.c, the one talking about keeping contracts in private centers, because we say it yesterday and we say it to the motion we are presenting: we want solutions but we want solutions from public health; we want to guarantee the quality and accessibility of all citizens to public services. And so, in parallel, we give the councillor yesterday, but he has to work with some planning criteria and finish with the derivations that he has so far planted. And I want to congratulate Congressman Rodriguez on this, because I think we've found a good solution and a good deal for what he does in emergencies. It is not so much a question of setting a date of twenty-four or forty-night, but of sharing what we all share and perhaps we have not just expressed well, that it is to say: "Listen, let the time that the same urgency lasts, and that it does not, in some way, serve, in some way, to pass, to say it in a very barroera way but that everyone understands, because they have not read it or because we do not have the..., that it is the time necessary and just to attend correctly to the urgency, but at the same time plan the drift, or the high, or drift to the plant, or whatever. And in this sense, I think it's important, too, and it connects a little with health transportation, that we sometimes leave people to emergency pending transportation; as it has been donated high, they donate the dinar, and not even move it, and some day, maybe, emergencies are turning it into something more than just emergencies. And end the Consorci Sanitari del Maresme. Not so many days ago, the life-savers of all the groups took over the mayor of Mataro and the governors of almost all the political forces of the assembly. Today's movement is about the special and delicate circumstances of the consortium, especially the Hospital de Mataró. They ask that the resolutions that Parliament has repeatedly adopted in previous legislatures, the years 14 and 15. They want economic sufficiency, they want a social health plan and they think they're coming..., and they really believe that Parliament can help recover the Sanitary Consortium of the Maresma and meet this demand that all the municipal groups in Mataró have jointly made. In this sense, except for the contrary vote that we have expressed in one of the points, we will support the rest of the motion presented for the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes has also presented papers. In her name has now the word Mrs Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.154.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I am also a little grateful to the group proposing and to its attitude in listening to arguments, accepting statements from a group that is obviously supporting the Government and giving support to the Government we are also supporting the best of our services, our attention to the citizens of this country. So, I'll try to go point-by-point and try to pull it off. At the first point, from community pharmacy, I won't be massing in this one. I understand that the Councillor also gave him the answer when he appreciated the proposals he respected the community pharmacy in the inquiry and that they made proposals to bring a little more community attention to our citizens. And in this case, the pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals in our country can also be these health agents, with proposals that are feasible and that it is obvious that we also worked on last year's legislature. The Government has presented a plan of government in which, obviously, there are points of salvation, and in a number 1, which responds to the mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia that emanates from this majority of Parliament, from this majority to the ballot box, and which reads that the majority of people in our country want a more just country, a new welfare state for everyone, take note of some of the measures that you have also put in this young man, and therefore, in this sense, we understand that you listen to the line of what the people say, despite the fact that sometimes we can't seem to. And in this issue 1 of salvation we also find the new Strategic Primary and Community Care Platform, which has to deal with all these points that you put in your point 2 of the motion; that we have negotiated a point respecting this point 2, which is about the term for the study, and that, therefore, also here, please appreciate the willingness you are open to talk about these terms and facilitate the task of government. We have also negotiated, as the MP Assumpta Escarp said, the point respects the Pla Director of Urgency. It is true, and it is also said in this Health Governance Plan, that a new emergency management plan is being set up which, in effect, aims to ensure that people attached to emergency services do not have more time than is necessary to resolve their urgent episode, pending from the high, from the derivation or from the income to the acute or to the socio-sanitary. And it adds that it will also contemplate everything that intervenes in emergencies that do not come further than the same service, but that it contemplates alternatives to conventional hospitalization, as well as measures for certain types of patients who may have a circuit of attention that do not make there so much demand for emergency appeals from hospitals. Therefore, all this will be seen in this new emergency director, whom I have claimed as a Member of Parliament for the past parliamentary term many times and which, therefore, in this case totally aligned with the Government, because it will implement it. Regarding the point of private health centres, which was also referred to by the MP Assumpta Escarp, the Siscat, as you said, Mr Santi Rodríguez, has this capacity. To our public system, we consider that there has been no activity that can not be done in our public system; therefore, this is what we mark, this point we simply mark here. And that is why we will vote on this consideration. We understand that the point is neither fitting nor well laid, as it is in the House, and that we want to make it clear that we interpret it in this way. For what he does to waiting lists, they also come out in the government plan, and he has presented the Full Plan of Best of waiting lists, which, yes, is true that what he foresees is an increase in activity, but it is not the most uplifting. The increase in activity does not cease to be a consequence of those objectives that we want to obtain for what it does to the waiting lists, which in the background are the equity of access and, obviously, transparency. Surgical interventions with a 10_percent better, which can represent 20,000 more surgical interventions – therefore, activity – ; diagnostic tests, about 30,000, and specialist visits, about 300,000. At this point and of this point of waiting lists, when you talk about terms of warranty and reference as a compromise of the system with patients, man, that's the truth is that I don't accept them, because the compromise is total. And this we want to make clear: the compromise is already total, and we do not need to trivialize the concept of guarantee. The terms of reference are not only to complete them, but to assume them, to pursue them, and to age them. And this government is willing, and this parliamentary group will insist if I do not respond sufficiently, that these terms of reference are fulfilled, of course. Not all interventions are the same, and therefore this must be done with clinical criteria and with the will to complete and that people are finally satisfied with the waiting lists. I just want to add, for the Consorci Sanitari del Maresme, that we believe that this Parliament has to do is to accompany the negotiation between the department and the Assembly of Mataró, which is resolving, and not to over-condition it. And a note about the Law of Universalization, which is also in the plan of government and which here I can give all the reason to the deputy, Mr. Albano Dante, who, man, approved the Royal Decree 16/2012...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.155.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.156.0	...is to have a little insensitivity, when we bet on the law of universalization in salvation. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.157.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] Then there's Mr. Martín Barra, from Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.158.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Comín, the motion we are debating, which is tabled by the People's Party, refers to several aspects, many aspects, and I will have to mention them all in five_minutes on a point of order. I hope Mr. Comin doesn't mind that. I say this to you because, seeing your interventions, it seemed to me to see it as a certain behavioral thread; I don't know if I'm wrong. In the previous plenary session, you blamed Mr. Rodriguez for putting so many issues on him in ten_minutes, didn't you? ..., "in two minutes," you said. I even said to him – I read it literally –: "I thank him that you think my abilities are, so I will not say infinite, but very great, because you ask me that in three months I solve all the problems of the health of the Catalan health system. Yesterday you also blamed our spokesman, Dr. Soler: "Man, you won't expect me to have all the data in my apartment on your head. I, of course, this Member does not expect you to solve all the health problems in three months – neither would it be wrong for something to have been solved – nor, under any circumstances, for you to have all the data from your department in your head. But, Mr. Comín, yesterday it took very little time and very little data to expressly condemn the attacks, the threats that a medical professional had had on the part of a Barcelona councilman. You yesterday – and I thank you – showed strong and explicit support for all health professionals, yours and your department, and I as a health professional thank you; but you took refuge in a generic comment that perhaps all parliamentarians in this Parliament would condemn that, so as not to make the concrete condemnation. Anyway, and I'm running out of time, let's get to the dots. The first point of the motion speaks about community pharmacy and, among other things, states: "It is essential that you form part of the health system of Catalonia. For Citizens, this is a shared claim. Both because of their proximity and because of the prestige of pharmacists vis-à-vis citizens, these professionals can be a very important element in improving the health and care of the population. In the second point it is proposed to look for formulas to improve some aspects of primary care, such as extending emergency care schedules, a basic element to decongest hospital emergencies, and also to give them more means to have chronic patients or patients with central sensitivity syndrome. Undoubtedly, providing primary care with more autonomy, more resources and more resolution capacity is an element of substantial improvement in the health system. The third point refers to hospitals: financial resources are requested to be recovered, some mention is made of the concerts that are planned to be suppressed, and also of waiting times in emergencies. There could be many more demands, it is clear, but if at least these were assumed and carried out by the Government the improvement that would occur would be substantial. And the fourth point raises proceedings with regard to the waiting list. And here too, Mr. Comin, I have..., I don't make myself clear. In the previous plenary you, well, gave the news that you are preparing a budget of 100_million_de_euro, in particular, for the attention to waiting lists..., obviously, an amount that I know seems insufficient to you, but it is the one you have found, because other times you have said that you need 1,000_million_de_euro – it is a logically approximate figure – to end waiting lists. Of course, and then there comes that generic mantra that serves for everything, just as it serves for a broken one that for a mess, that famous mention that "of course, as we do not have these structures that we are looking for, it is impossible to find that budget. But, of course, it's just that you've also said other times that ending waiting lists is impossible; I don't like it. Yes, you have said it other times, you have said that waiting lists are consistent with the national health system, which is free and universal. And it wasn't that far off; in fact, all independent countries have waiting lists and universal health systems. That's not the solution. With waiting lists we have to put ourselves to do something now, and the 100_millions you announced, of course, we look forward to them in the health system, and some of the proposals..., or the proposals made in this motion will also help. There is a fifth point relating to the Maresme Health Concert, and in particular the Hospital de Mataró, which has numerous difficulties, but, as on the other hand, the vast majority of Catalan hospitals. In short – and it has given me time and everything, I note – the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group will support this motion and we hope that the Government will implement the measures reflected here as soon as possible, to begin to improve our health system. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.159.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, in order to pronounce on the exams, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Party of Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, sorry, I was wrong: Mrs. Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.160.0	Thank you, President. Well, it seems to be that this is the legislature of political cynicism. One week, one week, one parliamentary group, one parliamentary group, one parliamentary group... they're constantly voting here are madeish causes. Causes that will already be voted in the last legislature, do not fail months. And so, in a sense, by a very good intention that age eth Partit Popular, that in doubt..., that in doubt because we know them, as said eth companh Dante, we know who they are, we know where they come from, and not to be that it was the Sea of the God of Lourdes is a miracle, you think they have not changed. As a matter of fact, our parliamentary group will vote every week for Madeish. Alavetz, if we want to continue voting atau and repeating votes, no problem; we will not change our minds. And that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. We are already focusing on the different points of this motion, first of all, that so now community pharmacy, we are going to abstain, because, by the way, by the hotel, and so generic, that can be compatible even if we convert it was pharmacy instead of a drug sales center, which follows that destined for this trade, and contribute, by the way, now over-medication of social problems. So you can be interpreted as a manoeuvring then unloading responsibilities to the meths and nurses of the drugstore, then living hours to the professionals. Therefore, as we do not know well what it refers to eth Popular Party damb eth drafted that present, we opt for abstention. In point 2, of primary attention, we have already said many parts: we are maintaining the ownership of the public management of all CAPs, for so long. Come on, we're not moving a millimeter from here. We know that... well, we know that it was primary attention to reform from a baish ship, and that it's far from so many studies, reports, counter-study, counter-reports, that it's a dream that working was administration and contributing to the current bureaucracy of governments that we don't get crazy about. We are tired of studies and reports, and this is what we want to be concrete measures: to apply these studies and reports that are hosts; you don't know why we proposed to return them to work. And, therefore, we are going to abstain, except at point 4.b, because he says that he is going to be put into practice, that what we want to be put into practice. In point 3, its hospitable centres deth Siscat, ager eth Grop Socialist present a question about its actions. And he's holding this picture of our friends from the People's Party. [[the speaker the exhibition]] Who, as you can see, warns him eth his interest peth Siscat and the public health pear of this country. A month after your lack of respect, it confirms ethos cynicism that has pointed to the aguesta motion. And, therefore, they cannot vote for it tanpoc, because we continue to be our quiet denunciation of health policies proposed by the People's Party. We agree at point 4, that the lists of delays are a problem that I want to address, as a matter of urgency, in Parliament's opinion, we have already approved different measures in the sense of alert; we are clearly inadequate, but these measures have already been approved by Parliament far beyond what is proposed as a matter of urgency. And, therefore, we interpret how to make it later. Why is it that I am better off than I have approved? Why is it that we are going to be later? And then end, eth Consorci Sanitari deth Maresme, in point 5..., well, it is well known, as long as they continue to have public entities, everyone knows that they are subject to private law and, therefore, they are the way to enter the country privatization will now be healthy when we are against. In concrete cases, when it comes to infra-financing, we want to say that all are consortia – all are consortia – are underfinanced. And we cannot rule out the cause that perpetuates the system. All this, like you're looking for a historical debtor, we think I'm just paying for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.161.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, there is the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.162.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Albano Dante, right? You started saying that you were surprised, once you read the motion, of its contents. So, surely – surely – the problem is that you didn't get enough before. So I'm glad you're doing it now. It's more, I recommend it – I recommend it – that you do it more often, because it's healthy, you will learn and you will surely lose harm. In relation to Mrs Boya's last intervention. Look, we already understand that you are more concerned about the ownership of those who provide the services than not because the services are preset on condition. Surely if marine sponges are commercialized by private companies, you would also be against marine sponges. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, we are not surprised that you are in this position. To thank the Socialist Group and the Joint Group for the reports they have presented to this House. In relation to the papers presented for the Socialist Group, we have not negotiated one, which relates to emergencies, together with Junts for the Yes. We wanted to put an end to the debate as to whether the emergencies should be taken care of in twenty-four hours, in forty-eight hours or when they should be taken care of. Urgency needs to be addressed in the measure that urgency is urgent and that urgency is resolved. But what we can't lose sight of is that the emergency patient who deserves the high, who gets the high as fast as possible, and what has to be derived to a bed of acutes or to a socio-health bed is also as fast as possible, and it doesn't stick to the past of emergencies, for the benefit of the same patients. Also of the Socialist Group we have accepted the inclusion of the Pla sociosanitari of Maresme. And in relation to the Juntes for the Yes, two transactions: one, only temporary, the one that asks the plan or the study of primary care and how we try to take over and recover this ability from primary care; and the other, together with the PSC, in relation to emergencies. The number 3, of Junts per el Si, accepted, and the 2 we do not accept; but, vaja, nor, in short, does not bring anything positive. A consideration about, Mrs Vergés, the reference time. If you consider that this is exactly the same reference time as the guarantee time, what inconvenience do you want to change it? Or why would they admit to changing it last year's legislature? Obviously, the compromise with reference time is less than the compromise with warranty time, and that is why we continue to bet to offer warranty time, because people, patients, citizens require us to commit to giving them solutions. And, finally, counselor, you, that wasn't there before... – I missed the Economy one, too, but I told you –, today, you, the government, are authorized to spend 800_million euros more than not yesterday. Therefore, take advantage of it for the Health Department because we are still able to improve the health care of Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.163.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now... we're calling for a vote. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.164.0	For a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.165.0	What points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.166.0	Point 3.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.167.0	3.c. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.168.0	Only.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.169.0	3.c. What else?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.170.0	Only 3.c. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.171.0	Only 3.c. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.172.0	Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.173.0	Miss Boya, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.174.0	By separate vote of points 1, 2, 3.c, 4, 5.b, 5.c and 5.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.175.0	Mrs Boya, points 5.b, 5.c and 5.d that you asked for a separate vote, can you vote in block? Because the feeling of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Okay. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.176.0	Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.177.0	Separate vote. Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.178.0	He's already asked for some other group, I'm sorry, but point 3.c...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.179.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.180.0	Okay. Thank you. [[Alba Vergés and Bosch ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.181.0	Lady Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.182.0	To ask for separate vote from points 3.c, 4.c and all number 5, but how there are separate votes, therefore, point 5. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.183.0	I have been asked for a separate vote on point 1, 2, 3.c, 4.c, 5.b, 5.c and 5.d. Any more?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.184.0	Fourth and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.185.0	I b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.186.0	...and b, that's right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.187.0	But is it that we vote 4.c and then the a and b can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Is that what I'm saying? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, we vote on the 4th and then the rest of the 4th? [[Pause.]] All right, then. We will begin the vote and vote on these points, and then we will vote on the rest of the motion. Does it look okay to you? [[Pause.]] Let's start the vote. We'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins. It was approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 3.c. The vote begins. It was rejected by 45 votes to 61, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 4.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes to 58, with 10 abstentions. Next, we vote on point 4a and 4.b. The vote begins. They were approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we vote on point 5.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes to 10, with 60 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes to 70. Next, we'll vote on point 5.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes to 70. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the 3+2 application]] [[302-00029/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the application of the 3+2, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mr. Albert Botran. [[Widow's remorse.]] And ask the rest of the chamber, please, to be quiet and in a hurry because we're going a long time. [[The remorse of the voice persists. Long break.]] Please, they're quiet and in a hurry. They can't start. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.188.0	All right, thank you very much, Madam President. In the first place, greet the representatives of the student movement who today accompany us from the rostrum. It is good news for the student movement, a movement that has given signs of vitality and that, with its actions... – the last, let's remember, was yesterday the march from the Autonomous University to here, at the gates of Parliament – with its actions, we say, they managed to put the focus on a clear threat: that the application of 3+2 was a new counter-reformation of the university; that the introduction of three-year degrees in place of four and the complementation with masters of two years served for a global approach to the cost of studying a university career, and, finally, that in the offer of these masters and degrees it was imposed by the criteria of the market that are deprived of the universities. The young lady supports these demands. The young man establishes a moratorium on the creation of three-year-olds. In fact, it also argues, even so, that three out of four degrees that are planted for the coming course do not begin. And this support is done as a key to debate, to open spaces for debate and participation. Let us remember that, at the beginning of these struggles, of these mobilizations against 3+2, they took the form of references to the campus of the Catalan Countries, giving the word to the people, therefore. And we said it and we're going to say it again: never more a college of students, never more a university of students. One day I felt a person who had had responsibilities in university structures who questioned the role that students might have in the direction of the universities and made a comparison a little unfortunate, he said: "Well, don't involve the patients in the management of the hospital. It's an unfortunate comparison, but it's not too far from the attitude that has been held at certain times, as in the application of the Bolonya board, without going any further. So we don't want it to happen again. And the feeling of the young man is this: we do not apply the 3+2, we open these spaces of debate, we incorporate the view of the study, we prevent a counter-reform that you care about and that makes the public university rescind, and, finally, in the march of the process we find ourselves defining the respective models, and there we confront them and do it without limitations: here we have competitions, here we have... no, that's what we can do or other, without excuses and without servitudes. We, in particular, in this debate, defend the gratuitousness of university studies, we also point it to the young man. We will defend the public, popular, Catalan, antipatriarchal and quality university. But for the time being, in this installation we want to do so that this chamber can pull forward what we are planting is a moratorium to avoid going further. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.189.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr. David Mejía, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.190.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, in the first place, I would like to take advantage of this motion that speaks about universities to condemn the acts that this past Tuesday, at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, were produced when a group of young people tried to put up an information tent and were threatened, they were insulted and they were coerced by a collection of radical independenceists who do not respect it – and it is obvious that they do not respect it – the diversity of opinions in the university. [[Some applause.]] I hope that the different parties will also join this condemnation, and I hope that those who always fill their mouths with lessons of democracy and fill their mouths with democratic, ethical and moral values will also demonstrate that today they condemn these acts and thus demonstrate their democratic quality. From the city we condemn this fact and whatever it is produced in this sense, who it is and who it is coming from. Moving on to the content of the motion, we have seen that it is a bar of many questions and a very long motion. And, from Citizens, we've tried to make an effort to break each of their apartnesses and put all our senses in order to reach an agreement at some of their points and apartnesses. And we have tried with a very clear objective, which is to improve our universities and their system. That is why we regret that the proposed group has not left aside its independenceist desire for this supposed future Catalan republic to reach common ground. What is the priority of this imaginary process is to defend the possible modifications that can be made in order to improve the quality of our public university system in Catalonia, shows the true will to change beyond party slogans. We regret, therefore, that priority should be given to its separatist aims to achieve a much broader consensus, which would certainly have shaped with much greater force the demands that can be demanded jointly between the different parliamentary groups to improve the subject that today brings us to debate. That said, it is obvious that the model proposed by Ciutadans is quite different from the model proposed by the CUP. For us, it is important to have a high-quality university where the values of effort are paramount, where we aim to develop talent, an open university, a cosmopolitan university, a plural university. We believe that the university must be the centre of a much broader system, a system of knowledge that connects the whole set of the education system, but also the different research centres and the different technology transfer centres and that is the foundation of a new production system. And we also believe that the funding of Catalan universities should not be based on holding taxes and materials higher than all of Spain, which is what is happening today; imports that, I remember, are 55_per_cent higher than the national average and that in the last six years, certainly in times of crisis, they have faced between a 69 and a 291_per_cent, which we believe is to be reversed; it has to be resolved and, in this direction, it was also one of our presentations. We don't want a politicized university, we said it in the past – we don't want a politicized university. And that means, precisely, being able to express and debate any proposal or position without any type of reprisal. We will not allow, condemn and condemn whenever our universities, those who call themselves anti-feixists, intend to put their ideas with a navall in their hands, as is what happened this Tuesday at the Autonomous University. [[Greetings.]] We will not allow it – we will not allow it – and we will not stand back in defence of freedom, respect and tolerance. That said, we think his model, the CUP model, is an unsustainable model, it's a unrealistic model; but honestly, we're not surprised at what his model of society is. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.191.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.192.0	Thank you, President. This Parliament has two plenary sessions dealing with the subject of university with a young man, first, from Catalonia Yes, he is Pot and, now, with a young man from the CUP. Since our group we are convinced that we need to talk about the university and talk about it a lot. And we are aware that we live in a specific reality, that we sometimes surround ourselves and do not know well how to face it in the university world. We consider that in the world of university there is a new pact – a new pact – without rush but without pause on where we want to go. Before the young man spoke of it; Albert Botran spoke of spaces of participation, since they are totally plausible, they are necessary, but it is not necessary to make a process to hold them, at least in the subject that today we are aware of. We cannot trust the entire future of the university and its Catalan model in the debate that some in the process constitute. We believe that this is what is going on: trusting to solve it at a time when, possibly, it will not arrive, nor will it have a place and does not facilitate the solution of current problems in higher education. We need reflections and changes now, many of these cannot wait, as is the case with 3+2 or funding. Therefore, we need to be brave and engage in deep debates on the conditions we have and change the reality we live in. The motion deals, basically, with the 3+2, as has been said. Our group is and has always been opposed to this model; but, above all, for the way the PP had to approve and develop it, and passive complicity, let's say so, of Convergence and Union, which approved and set aside this decree. We do not have the consent of the university community on this subject, there is no consensus between rectors, among students, has generated confusion and put at risk a very important theme that is the social ascent as the unifying element of the university. Moreover, in Catalonia, the Government of Convergence was on the side of Minister Wert, so much criticized many times from here, with this theme, so as to facilitate the initiation of the 3+2 route in Catalonia. Although this decree does not please us – and so we have said several times – it can be put in the way. Obviously, we cannot deny the reality: it is in force, it is legal; in fact, the CRUE called for a moratorium in order to be able to agree on some elements but it is clear that it cannot be prohibited to apply it to universities, because there is a principle that we must always respect: the principle of university autonomy. Therefore, our group will vote in favour of the points that speak of concrete issues where we can improve. And they felt in this room several times, all that is referring to finance, to degrees, to equal the price of degree and the price of master, to enhance the offer of public masters and to guarantee the presence of students and trade union representatives in the organs that depend on the Interuniversity Council. But, as it cannot be otherwise, we will abstain from the points that speak about how the world will be in a process that constitute, but which raise substantive issues where we can agree, and, above all, we will vote against the points that affect university autonomy or speak exclusively of the process that constitute. So our position on this subject is, to some extent, disappointing, because we believe that we need to talk about it, that we need to talk about it deeply, that we need to talk about it with a debate, but we don't need to bring a subject here, let's just say, I'm talking about a young man, when it's a great pact issue outside this Parliament, too, not exclusively here. Therefore, we believe that we need to start a new stage in the university community, to know where we want to go. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.193.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the words of Mr. Joan Giner, of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.194.0	Good morning, everybody. First of all – and it's already a good thing that we do this – to greet..., a fraternal hug to all those people who yesterday mobilized from the Autonomous so far here, a long journey of many hours. I was surprised. I hooked them up here in the Arc de Triomf, and I walked around with them, and they used to cry out a phrase that I think marks the way, they said, "The streets will always be ours. And I think that if we really want to fight for a social change, deep, when we talk about processes they are, doing it from the bottom and participation, this phrase of "the streets will always be our mark on the path, because really who moves the world is the people who rise up every day to work and not just those who are here in this room. About the 3+2, I've already told the proposed CUP companies that in the end the 3+2 would have to stop it, it was a consensus that there was, including, among many directors. We've blocked the royal decree or we're blocking it; perfect, we agree. But, in reality, the important thing is not that the 3+2 model is the devil with legs, but that the important thing is the difference in prices between degrees and masters – that there is also a point to the motion that they talk about, and ask the other groups that vote in favour of this point – because this actually causes there to be a severance of academic careers per class motu of many students. So... when they put Bolonya down, we say, "It can't be, because we're a 4+1 model and Europe is 3+2, and that's at home. Now we're not against 3+2, 5+2 or 7+3, we're just asking that there's no price difference between each other, that then it would be the same as 1+4 or 1+1 or 1+2, it's the same. And on the subject of debates, which I believe has focused or focused many of the interventions of the citizens' and the Socialist Party's companies, we are in favour of all kinds of debates, and we say that in this point we will vote in favour, because if we think of a type of process, we think so, from below, we do not smoke, but we are dealing with particular issues, as may be the subject of universities at this point. What I can say is that I can start laying stones, already, in this debate, not just leave it in a hypothetical future. And it's something that maybe we don't have to deal with here, we have to deal with it more calmly; but above all, we need to regulate well what spaces of participation university students have, and yes... – yes, yes – we are in university autonomy. Many people who talk about university autonomy, really one of the great values that causes new heads of young people to be generated prepared to lead this society is the student movement, of which many come; it is very important that these are co-responsible for the management of this university space. This is how we will generate a layer of young prepares that in the future can be able to carry this new country forward. That's why – and with this I'm done and I don't want to go any further – from now on they're all about the following: defining exactly how we want students to participate, which space we want them to give to the university – which they have now only face-to-face with – and, above all, who is involved, in those bodies that directly depend on the Government of the Generality, which have a certain representation or power of decision, which paper the donations and what representation these students can have. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.195.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word "Mr. Antoni Castellà", from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.196.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs..., salute also representatives of student unions, greet the secretary of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. Madam President, many times what's going on... the distance from the citizens' policy is when, sometimes, the Members express themselves or, at last, we make a few rallies in front of the Faristol that they only have to see with the text of which we are approving. And I say that in general. Someone, if you see us from the outside, without the text, it seems that we are approving different things of all kinds. Therefore, I will try to do the exercise of defending what I think is a good proposal, which has broad consensus in many of the points, exactly what we are doing. First of all, because one of the things... there are two themes, above all, very uplifting. The first, the famous Decree 43, says the famous Decree 43..., and now I am addressing the Members who are not from the field, because I obviously don't know what the people in the field know, despite the fact that I want to make some kind of speeches. This is a decree that gives way to sovereignty. Point. The decree, of 3, and, less, of 3+2; it is a decree that says: « In which it was now the exclusive competence of the Government of Madrid, now, in this case, Catalonia, can decide whether it wants to make degrees of one hundred_width or not want to make them, or wants to make masters of one year or want to make them two. Therefore, I say in the first place..., it would be contradictory for you to make this Parliament; obviously, it does not make this Parliament..., to put an end to a serious decree that here we are making an act of sovereignty returning sovereignty to the Spanish Government. It'd be a little surreal. Therefore, point 1, which is an agreed transaction, and which I believe will have broad consensus here, is to recognise from Parliament, and I think it is very good, which is what Catalonia has done, the university community, to define the ability to structure our studies, on three conditions: not economic cost for the student or for the university – this is already granted– ; two, which in any case tends to the same prices between degrees and masters, and three, of course, that any decision can only be academic. And until you get to this process, if any university approves, as is the case, a degree of one hundred and forty credits, never be in place of a current four-year-old. And that is why there is a certain contradiction – it will allow me..., Mr Butran – between point 1 and point 2, because if at point 1 we recognize that the degrees that are in operation..., therefore, these that at point 2 we have to stop do not substitute in absolute, and you know, to the present degree. Therefore, we value the agreements of the university community, and with this we obviously differ from how things are done, and that is why the Catalan system is one of the systems referring to Europe in university terms. And the other big thick, another time, and from this I want to do it, is that we don't agree – in the rest of the youth we agree. The other point we can't agree on is that another time it's on the table to lower the price to high returns. Let's go back to expressing ourselves with property. Diputats de Ciutadans deien: "It will push a 66_per_cent to Catalonia. Yeah, you make them tall. And a 40_per_cent fell to the low returns. Because – I suppose it's not disconnection – in Catalonia we have a price-for-income system, and there are 60_per_cent of students in Catalonia who pay the maximum – the maximum means that 80_per_cent is subsidized– but 40_per_cent who have the premium bonus. And this is an income redistribution system. And I want to remember why that affects fairness. It means that there was no presupposition, it means that this last point..., and I'm surprised, and I said it in the past Full respect Catalonia Yes, I can, I'm surprised, with all the cordiality, respect the CUP. I understand, that I voted in favour of the PP, I understand, because the PP will have the speech, I understand, that it cannot be done double progressive taxation again. But in any of the cases they know, and with this I end, that if this happens to happen – if this happens to happen to happen to happen to happen to happen to happen to happen to you – every euro that's gone from high to high is at the expense of low. And that at this time it is at risk, that 6,500 students of Catalonia pay half of the official prices. If you pulled this out, that would be over. And we won't allow this from Junts for the Yes. Because – I finish with this – together for the Yes, today we have seen it, we voted differently from the Juntes for the Yes; we are four parties, we are independent, we are very polyphonic, polyhedral, as you say, but there are two things that are transversal to all of us: one, the acquiescence of one Catalan republic, and the other, social justice. And in the name of social justice we will not allow the fallbacks of this country to be affected. [[Greetings.]] If this comes up, there will be people who will stay out of the university mark.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.197.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.198.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.199.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.200.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when that strange parliamentary agreement was signed between Junts per el Si and the CUP, that paper which the President Mas, the Artur Mas, always leads to the butxaca I don't know whether as a reminder or as a threat, when that agreement was signed, there was an internal current of the CUP, Corrent Roig, who made a statement in which he said that he feared that the CUP was converted into the left wing of the government and into a mere element of friendly pressure to the government. So, actually, this young man is a paradigmatic example that you've been through this. You have passed from absolute kindness, well, you did not practice it in the previous legislature, but before, when you were only in the street, from more absolute kindness, to a menu of friendly pressure. And I'm not going to tell them again that they're anti-systems – nor have I ever told them – because I think I'm a source of the Catalan national system; it's to say, to the Catalan nationalist system, the CUP is a source of power. And now, I wouldn't be alienated, seeing these motions and how it goes, that the year you see – no, two or three years from now – attend lunch with Luis Conde, knowing that the year you see already went to Mrs. Colau, two or three years, the CUP present. But they still have some reservations; they still have some reservations, for example, at the university. And they introduce us to a young man in what they want to say three things to us, shyly, huh? I'm afraid so, timidly. As Mr. Castellà said, and you're right, one thing is the speech and one thing else is the paper. They talk to us..., or in the background there is the timid claim of a public university, free, independent; 3+1, and then this 1 that we do not want to be European on the subject of 3+2; total, if you have already seen better – you support it – out of Europe, therefore, also to the university. It is told to the academic world that an explanation must be clear and different. So, well, this young man is absolutely the opposite: Confess, sweeps things, complicates, even in writing. And you have to clarify – you have to clarify – that you are against 3+2 as you are, or you are against the cost of 3+2. Because if the problem is the cost, then we propose measures to reduce this cost to students, and if the problem is the academic structure, then we talk about the academic structure. Among other things, because 3+2, 3+1, 3+1+1– because it's not completely defined– it's what Catalan rectors and all Catalan political parties had always defended, except, that's true, Catalonia Yes, it's Pot; the rest had defended it. Now, if the PP does and gives more freedom to the universities, then, of course, it's an absolutely unfortunate thing. But he's the one who's always been defending himself from Catalonia. We defend this university flexibility; we defend it for various things. First of all, because we are in the European lane, that is to say, it is good in the European lane, if it is not that you want to make a university highway in Catalonia, but that facilitates mobility, that makes it easier for people to come from outside, that we can work in the rest of Europe, more easily. Then, it's better from a point of view of academic or academic logic, because it allows us a more general first step and a more specific second step. Think, you imagine, that a person studies history– and, you, Mr. Botran, studied it, if I'm not mistaken–; for example, he says: "I do generalist studies of history and then I specialize either in Catalan history or in cultural journalism. The postgraduate allows you to play better with the design of your career and your academic and professional profile. And, besides, it is a good structure because it responds to the needs of the labor market and to combat duality, precisely. Therefore, you who are always so in favour of the right to decide, now do not want the students and the universities to decide, they are against it, and here it happens..., with what I say, and in addition to the condemnation of this act, that sometimes those who fill the mouth of so many things... to those who attacked this group of Catalan Civil Society, those of "out of the bexists, we could read those verses of Bécquer who said: "And what is fascism? You ask me... fascism... bah! You know that, don't you? ; well, how it ends. If the problem is not 3+2, if the problem is access to the university... [[Funnel veils]] – yes, yes, yes, it is true – we present measures; we present measures as we have done, as we have presented in other motions. We regret, at last, that you want to convert university into the academic arm of the process. You want to infiltrate the process into all areas of society, and now you say that the university has to legitimize, recognize and give logistical resources to the process. We just don't have a reason to be present in a moment when and how the families of the process are to be spoken of. That is, as always, with a certain subsidy. Thank you, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.201.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then there's the word "Mr. Albert Botran." [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.202.0	Well, thank you, a few more than others, because I think they've eaten more of the text. In any case, the grace of the process is that it is not of the independenceists, it is of all. Whatever happens to us, like we believe in each other, that's why we're good at it. The reason is that all these ideas, which today are expressed on university models, which are obviously divergent, as is our society, can be expressed in a process without having to comply, therefore, without having to comply, without having to comply with real decrees, which have been decided outside this society. This is the grace: that a society can have the university system that it believes corresponds to its needs, that it believes it corresponds to the rights of its people. Secondly, actually, here he referred that the question is not the structure of the studies. That's what we've said every time we talk about 3+2, in names of interrogations, and in the defense of other motions. The question is not the structure, the question is the priests. That's obvious. And how this change can make what you studied five years ago and come out much more because with the introduction that the master is two years old, at some other price, because the attached centers are also introduced. And in this case I link with the intervention of Junts' representative for the Yes, Antoni Castellà. In the first place, the contradiction, obviously, is good because we want to approve the first point, and we have to deal with your text. And point 2 we know that we will not approve it, but our position is this: we are not pleased that the first degrees that have already been created are attached to the royal decree, which is mostly made with registered centres and with the priests who have these registered centres, which are much higher than the ones that should be provided by public education. And that's why there's a contradiction. And we're talking about not applying what this decree allows; we're not saying anything different, in that there's no contradiction. We are saying that we are not joining this decree to create new degrees that replace the studies that are being given to the public university today. This is what he wrote and this is what we think will move us forward. We aspire to the gratuity of university studies, and here is the difference, and pushing prices does not go that way; therefore, this is the confrontation that we make respect for its university model. We doubt, in this case, that the scholarship system – which, therefore, calls social pricing – has left a university more accessible than it was before taxes, before prices. Therefore, from this point of view we cannot accept that we are being told that we are getting closer; we are defending the public university, and pushing before the public university, until today, is not making it more accessible. And, finally, on the subject that tangentially or opportunistically has been addressed in this Faristol, for threats, which the author of the librarian Desmuntant Catalan Civil Society, who regularly and are of death, reprimands. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.203.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're calling it a vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, take it easy, please. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break. Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.204.0	By separate votes, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.205.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.206.0	Miri, for a band, l'1, the 2, the 7 and the 8, which is they could vote together. But I think it will be better if we vote for the whole motion separately. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.207.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.208.0	Yes, for a separate vote from points 5, 9 and 12.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.209.0	Still some left, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.210.0	Thank you. [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.211.0	Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.212.0	To request a separate vote on 2, 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.213.0	Two... [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.214.0	Yeah, it's just... well, I had asked for a separate vote from everyone, but, like they're asking for the rest of the groups, too, the 6, the 10 and the 11 would also please us... they can be together, but also separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.215.0	The young lady has eleven points. I seem to have been asked for eleven votes. [[The president laughs.]] I think it's better if they vote them back separately. [[Pause.]] There's three and four left. Can you vote for it separately? [[Pause.]] Go, then; we will vote them separately. Let's start the vote. The vote on point 1 begins. It was approved by 79 votes to 49, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 109 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 3. The vote begins. It was approved by 96 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 4. The vote begins. It was approved by 106 votes to 24, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5. The vote begins. It was approved by 106 votes to 24, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, point 6. The vote begins. It was approved by 81 votes to 25, with 23 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 7. The vote begins. It was approved by 81 votes to 49, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 8. The vote begins. It was approved by 81 votes to 49, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 10th. The vote begins. It was approved by 81 votes to 24, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 11. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 93, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 12. The vote begins. It was rejected by 42 votes to 60, with 24 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into youth policies]] [[302-00030/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on youth policies presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the parable of Mr. Fernando de Páramo. And I'd ask him, if he'd come out, to make it quick and quiet, please. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] Please, be quiet. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.216.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Members, Members, Councillor, Councillor, the spirit of this motion is born of an interpellation in which what we have tried from this parliamentary group is to put aside differences, which is not very common in this Parliament, unfortunately, and we have tried to put differences aside, to concentrate on what unites us and to improve the situation of young people. Already in her day, to Constellera Bassa – who can not attend today, has apologized for not being able to attend and replace it the Constellera Munté –, I have already communicated to her this need to reach a series of agreements on youth policies and that, please, let us put aside the debate – monotheme. Well, we were unable to achieve that with Mrs Bassa, but we have done so with the young Members of this Parliament who participated in this motion; and I would also like to thank the Member of Parliament for his willingness and the work that Mr Gómez del Moral, Mr Gibert, Mr Milián and Mr Giner have done, with the intention of improving the content of this motion. Obviously, a motion that does not speak of all the problems we have to deal with in order to improve the situation of young people, but rather focuses on the most urgent ones, such as creating youth employment, improving English and the training of our young people, dropping out of school, flight of talent, access to housing or helping entrepreneurs, among others. We continue with very high youth unemployment rates, with 28.3_percent in those between the ages of sixteen and twenty-nine and 39_percent in those between the ages of sixteen and twenty-four – they are official data offered by the council itself – so far below the European average. And what is even more serious: with 46_per_cent of these clinex contracts, contracts of use and pull, contracts of job insecurity, which make it difficult, of course, that there can be continuous training of young people in their jobs and which also make it difficult for them to plan their lives in the end. The motion also seeks to improve these conditions by developing specific training programmes for young people, and also by emphasizing the importance of English, as a language not of the future, as some say, but of the most absolute present. We also talk about entrepreneurs in this motion, where news published these days shows that 46_per_cent give young Catalans see as a way out to create their own project, but that on many occasions they encounter two difficulties: one of them, the bureaucracy, and another of them, the lack of funding. In this motion we have also tried to tackle this problem by eliminating bureaucracy, with a maximum as simple as that no administration asks you for a role – by simplifying it – or a document that already has in its possession, and also, of course, by improving those lines of financing and public investment funds. Undoubtedly, the flight of talent is another of the great problems we live in Catalonia with young people; I mean those who have to go by obligation, those who, with the lack of opportunities on their land, have to leave and go abroad, and with some even worse conclusion, and that is that many of them never come back. That is why we are also going to use it to push and control the bodies that we have in operation with the Generalitat and that can be useful if we push them, I insist, and if we also control them. In the area of housing..., it is also another of the great problems that many young people have to face, that they cannot plan their lives, that they cannot be independent, that they cannot, in short, plan their future. In this regard, too, we have tried to give an answer with this motion, with all those houses owned by financial institutions, that let us not forget that the vast majority of them or many of them, if not all of them, have been rescued with the money of all citizens and that, therefore, what minimum can we do to return that expenditure to society? Certainly, as I said at the beginning, this motion pursued two fundamental objectives. The first, as it cannot be otherwise, improve the situation of young people in Catalonia, bring our granite sand; of course we will not be able to change everything, but to lay the foundations to start doing it. And it was also pursuing an objective which I believe has been achieved and which we must also be proud of by Members of this Parliament, which is to be able to reach agreements with those who do not think like us and to be able to park, even on these very important issues, political differences and put them at the service of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.217.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.218.0	Thank you, President. Well, the motion that presents us today City includes various themes, such as housing, youth guarantee, economic exile, fears that the Parliament has dealt with various times, that young people try to bring here many times to debate and that we face today, right? I could include others, such as participation, set-up, many other issues affecting young people, but we do not think that it would be appropriate to make a ‘tender young man', as he goes sometimes, but to focus on more concrete issues. It is clear that there are firm and decisive actions and resources – above all with resources, which is a subject that is often obvious in this Parliament – to solve various problems that young people in this country see. The young woman in Catalonia is one of the most affected by the crisis we are experiencing; everyone knows this, the data show it and the poster referred to it earlier. With an air-time charge, we're building a company that's harassing her youth, directly. They lack the expectations of a generation in the face of the future. In addition to the past, young people are the main victims of precariousness, a subject that has also been discussed here before, but which directly affects this collection. And, besides, one issue that is sometimes not mentioned is that it is also important that many of them have no unemployment benefit, which directly condemns them to social exclusion. The youth guarantee that this young man is dealing with was an attempt, an attempt to give out or a hope to young people who do not have a job, but lately we see that it has become an almost institutional precarious system in which contracts are subsidized for a certain time without any type of guarantee of a future there, in that company, for which we also find ourselves an issue of the People's Party in which it tries to fix, tries to improve the efficiency of this Youth Guarantee Program. But it also seems to me accurate to say that this guarantee has problems of origin, it sprinkles from its implementation. We find ourselves with very concrete cases: a young man who unloads a truck in the morning cannot work during the next three months to try to opt for the youth guarantee. We believe that this is not accurate or answerable to the logic of these days. Apart from the guarantee, the current dynamic brings the Catalan youth to a career without exit. Before we talked about it. You can sort between precariousness or economic exile. Thousands of young people have emigrated to different European Union countries. We have data that vary as to the thousands of young people who have left looking for a future that this country has denied them. And the youth struggle policy marked it a few years ago by a councilman named Mena, who made a great phrase in the Youth Commission, in which he said that a youth policy was going to serve coffee in London. So, obviously, this policy has become reality, unfortunately, for many young companies and companies. The Parliament urged the Government to implement various measures to encourage the return of young exiles, as well as to devote resources to curbing the flow of immigration. And today he's doing it again. In fact, some of these points that are dealt with today have already been approved or debated in other motions or resolutions. But today we're going back to inciting. We are collecting the actions they are taking in order to give support to the return of young people who have emigrated, to facilitate the search for work abroad and, above all, to offer opportunities and facilities to return to our country. We are aware that the Government has announced various measures to try to address this issue. But one more time, let's be late. Five years ago the economic crisis and we have not seen any measure, apart from a web portal. Other autonomous communities have made decisions and dedicated resources to recover their young people. Let's hope that now, once and for all, we're at the height of the situation. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.219.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, there's the words of Mr. Joan Giner, of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.220.0	Good morning again; today you see enough. Youth exile is a problem that we have repeatedly denounced... here. To Parliament..., which we have put forward to the Youth Policy Committee a motion for a resolution on the basis of this problem. We, the proposal we presented earlier, spoke of a single register of young exiles for economic reasons. And we say that because the existing lines are insufficient, and when we create a register, when we create a tool where young people have to participate, what we need is above all to be successful. And what we proposed – and I'm sorry to talk about my book, but it's very related to it – was the fact of a gift or a help to young people who return, who work abroad, and that connects a little with the second point that Ciutadan's companion spoke, which is that of the Law 25/2002, which speaks, for example, that young people who return can get the minimum income of insertion and in this case it won't be expected that they haven't been in Catalonia for the last two years. That's fine. Any one who returns to the right, for the other conditions, to this minimum income. So, let's just say, it's a law that's never complete. Oh, come on, there's a lot of cases. More than a king because they haven't had a period, for example, of social observation, right? , social services. So this has to be changed. Jo, right now... I don't know, and it's not usual for someone to say "I don't know here and offer various options. I don't know if I really need to make a certain scholarship or a certain help for the young man who returns or, in any case, we need to start thinking in terms of guaranteed citizenship income and that you don't need to discuss it here anymore. It would really be a long-term solution. But, anyway, it's something we'll discuss. I think we can discuss it as the Youth Policy Committee and make good conclusions. On the points of the subject of English, of the subject of school dropout... Yes, totally agree, we will vote in favour. We think that, well, young people, today, have a lot of input, and the fact that they can work in three languages is super important. So let's abandon bilingualism to this fame. And on the subject of the Occupational Service and the youth guarantee plans, I completely add to the words of the socialist company, the Pol. We, the Youth Policy Committee, the one we want, or the objective we have set ourselves, is to propose a new way of managing these plans. We think they're stuck from the beginning. So much good we have all the competition of the 300_million, almost, coming; they only give us 50_per_cent. Let's see if from the People's Party you'll get a little and give us all the youth guarantee management, which I'm sure we'll do better. And the goal is from here to six months to really come up with a new way to hear the youth guarantee because it gives you a solution to this. Point 6, the subject of the Sareb. Hey! Congratulations, he's fine. Let's go near positions. And I think Sareb should work together. We may not agree on how we should work, but we should work. I'd take the floors without any further delay. Well, let's talk about it. It's important, more than just because we young people find ourselves with very proscribed logues and, normally, 20 or 30_per_cent of what is to be held between logue and wages is never good. So, I think that Sareb and many private companies that have empty floors to speculate should collaborate a little more, I don't know if here or even here. We agree, I'm sure we'll find it. And already as last point, we at point 7 will abstain. We need, above all, to talk about co-operation, we need to talk about developing the idea of self-occupation, whatever is included, and we appreciate it. We believe that it is not only a matter of opening lines of credence to young people who have ideas, that also, that it can be a tool, but the fact of creating this added value of the fabric, of cooperation; that of adding, collaborating and not competing, which I believe is the future because young people can pull forward. And, said that, and I end up saying that, really, the young woman – and before I talked about universities and now I seem to repeat myself – is here to bring a new country forward. And when a new country tells me about the fact that we have to reverse everything, it's to say, we have to change everything, and it's the young woman, really, who has to undo everything that we do now – one that is no longer considered young. And that's why I think that giving us, or worrying about, this young man is a key thing. And that's why I appreciate it, too, that I talked about youth policy issues here. And as a last resort... I'm referring to the Members of the Youth Political Commission, inviting them to participate in it... and that shortly, let's say, we draw conclusions from the same committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.221.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the words of Mr Gerard Gómez, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.222.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, I, in the first place, want to thank the work of the Member proposing the motion for a resolution..., and the thanks of the assembly, because I believe that it is of all, and the good that we have had to be able to agree and to reach a broad agreement on this motion, which, and some Members referred to, is not superficial, or, let's say, is not superficial..., does not go into the depth of all the issues, is it obvious, isn't it? This is why there is also the Youth Policy Committee and why we are working on it, but it does focus on and talk about some key, important issues that young people need to address. The youth's situation at this time of crisis and these last few years has obviously not been good, and we have probably followed the generation that paid the most for the broken dishes of this crisis. And with this fish that's moving the cua, isn't it? , that it's from a band formation, which then makes it difficult..., at the time of accessing job offers, and, therefore, attunement, and attunement imply a lower emancipation rate, and so I can't leave the parents from home. So, this fish that's moving which is what we obviously need to break, and we need to make young people have the vital opportunities that we deserve. Because, in fact, and this is something we have repeated more than once, young people are not the future; young people are the present, and young people are part of this society, and young people are part of this Parliament, and we have seen it now, right? We young people are part of these longings, also social, citizens, to want to change things, to want to move forward and to want to build a better society. For this reason, the young person raises questions about school failure and well-planned studies. I think I need to recognize that it's a good job, in this sense. By the year 2010 the school failure rate in Catalonia was 28 with 9; currently, and the proposed Member quoted it, we are at 18 with 9; two points less than five years ago for what he does to the school failure. However, it is not enough, and so the compromise, obviously, must continue to move forward in order to be in the middle of the European Union, or to complement what the European Union marked for the year 2020, which was to reach a 15 for the Spanish State, and which we in Catalonia have set for us not for 2020, as the European Union called us for, but for 2018. And on this line we go. I, therefore, have a good time, too, to thank us and to force us to continue advancing in this line. The other pot is the twilight. And obviously, the youth rate between the seven and the twenty-nine is higher than we all would like: a 28 with 9_percent of the time. And that counts, and it's one of the points that has always been important for us, the juvenile exile of all these young people who have had to go abroad, who have had to go looking for vital opportunities outside our country, and who represents, let's face it, the worst drama a country can have. Because a country without its young people, a country without its involvement..., and without having all that training that we have spent with all the public resources on universities, schools, to get young people to contribute..., and see that young people have to go out looking for job opportunities..., it is a country that, obviously, has failed in something. And that's why it's important to improve the return policy and it's important to go through all the resources there because that's what young people have opportunities here. The youth guarantee, in a certain way, can help, but it must continue to implement the Return Plan, and also the International Mobility Plan and the interdepartmental group that has already been created to, precisely, promote and improve the return of the young person. Because the best policy we can do is that there's work here. This is the best return policy, generating employment in Catalonia, but also putting all the facilities that are possible because young people can have the opportunity we deserve in our country. And lastly, emancipation, which is one of these three pots of young people's living conditions, and with a trend that, obviously, has gone down in the last few years of the economic crisis, and today the emancipation rate is 24 with 5. So did Congressman Giner, didn't he? – We absolutely agree to make all these policies available to social habitats, empty habitats, because this is one of these absurds of this country, that there are empty habitats and people who cannot leave the house..., so we correct this disparity. And that's why, in fact, the government has already signed a deal in this sense. There are already 1,830 floors available; there are no 900 of the Sareb, 400 of the Catalunya Caixa, 200 of the CaixaBank, etc. So, this is the line you need to follow. For all this, we will vote in favour of this young man, a young man we share and a young man who must serve to lay the foundations, precisely, to improve the living conditions of the young man, who, as I said, we are not the future, we are the present, and that is why we want to get involved in making this future our home and a better country for all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.223.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.224.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members, we are holding this plenary session with the motion of Mr Fernando de Páramo, where the young people are the backbone of this text and where we must recognize that there has been an important bargaining effort on the part of almost everyone. The only problem, possibly inevitable, is the toll paid to get a large majority of a parliament with such diverse sensitivities, right? This toll is always... sometimes the lack of realization of some of the points of this young man. So what I'm going to do is explain a little how the People's Party would be more concrete from the points we've put forward. First of all, it should be made clear that youth, school failure or university failure are intimately linked indicators and represent a large collective failure. It is the fish that eats the cua, that gave the deputy Gomez del Moral. In order to reduce school drop-out, we believe that the LOMCE application would be necessary or, if not, an educated model with the LOMCE foundations. I'll explain. Students are not equal in abilities, degree of maturity, inclinations or potentialities. Therefore, we cannot pretend that all succeed before the age of seven years on the same route. The system, we think, must be flexible and able to offer opportunities to as many students as possible. In this sense, the LOMCE suggests that ESO students can choose between different itineraries and that these can be reversible, two types of ESO quarter and basic FP so that from the fourteen years they can follow an alternative FP route to the second cycle of ESO. Another way to reduce this school failure is to increase resources for reinforcements, duplications, and ultimately lower the rates and ensure stable and motivated teaching seedlings. In this sense they pointed out the first two points of the People's Party, which unfortunately could not be accepted by the Ciutadans Group. The other one that could not be accepted, and that we believe was positive, was the one that referred to housing. It is intended to promote the cooperation agreement between public administrations and Sareb, and other financial entities that have received public money to make real estate activities available to social and accessible logue programmes. And it seemed fantastic to me, it seemed very good, but here we wanted to add to it, or that, in any case, you made it clear, that also the empty habitats of the Generality, that we calculate that they are around eight-hundred habitats, were subject to this specific program of support to the suitable habitat for young people. Teaching, therefore, inhabits, and, in third place, occupation– occupation. With regard to this point, we agree with the Business Development Plan that they propose to us; but I want to remind you, here, that the year 2010 Convergence promised a law of entrepreneurs, that Catalans are still waiting for us now. In fact, last year's legislature, the Catalan People's Party presented a proposal for a law to support entrepreneurship, but unfortunately Convergence was no longer that business friendly party and it put in place measures such as facilitating financing for entrepreneurs, micro-entrepreneurs and peppers or establishing a comprehensive system of support for the entrepreneur. But, back in office, what the People's Party is proposing today – and, unfortunately, it has not been accepted – is that the social security contributions in our contracts to young people under thirty years old, at least for the first two years, be subsidized in a 50_per_cent. Finally, the theme that has been accepted, which is a theme of addition, is the one that defends the execution in its totality of the fund linked to the Youth Guarantee plan that manages the Generalitat de Catalunya. A communication campaign is needed because all young people know the opportunities offered by this plan. It is necessary to simplify the mechanisms for requesting assistance and to inform the business world in a convenient way. I'm done, President. Sometimes, under the rhetoric of changing everything, there is a reality of political paralysis. In a hundred days, the Catalan Government has not approved anything that improves the lives of young Catalans; in new months, this Parliament has not approved any substantial legal reform on any subject. And a hundred and twelve days of the present year have passed and the generality continues without presuppositions. That's right, in two days they've approved 11_million euros in advertising. They spend more time and resources in propaganda and agitation rhetoric than helping young people build a better future. Let's hope that, from today on, I changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.225.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.226.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies. The young man we are dealing with today touches very important aspects and, moreover, acquires a dramatic replenishment when we link them to the young men's world. It's to say, to talk about atur, about formation, about immigration, about right to habitat, it's, somehow, to touch the soft of the bone, because it's not a... When we link them, these themes, with the young man, so they acquire this drama, and, somehow, so, we're not talking about tangential things, but, as I say, we're talking about things... to touch the soft of the bones of a harsh and cruel reality that we suffer and have. The same question that was asked when the question was put that... according to this motion that is presented today, it indicated and asked us parliamentarians to help young people achieve their goals, to turn frustration into opportunities and, more importantly, to give solutions, said. From the motives of that inquiry, therefore, there was also the concern of young people who came to go abroad in search of work because of the lack of opportunities they found in our country. I was worried about this runaway, as I was worried about the runaway of talents and the lack of return opportunities they had. These are questions, concerns, before which everyone, everyone, can surely feel more or less critical. Now, the proposals that the government is going to make in the motion, especially in the initial motion, in no case fan, as the company says, in a neutral way, despite the questioning..., that in the question is said to be that they want to put aside bans and ideological positions. From ideological positions to everything else, and, surely, I am from the opinion that there is everything else, and, at the points of the motion that concerns us and, above all, to the initial motion, so obviously there are ideological positions. At the very first point, when it comes to assessing the economic impact of the flight of talents, it is a consideration that, for us, it is mercantilist, because it is based on the possibility or conviction that the State has wasted money on education. For us, education or sanitation is right, huh? , which must not be assessed with economic criteria of loss or benefit, but we think that all people have right to access, to education and to academic training, whether after leaving or not. We also find a support – but we do not deceive ourselves, we saw it this way – an ideological position, when in the support proposal to English, and we thought that there was a position in favor of its option, of which they call trilingualism. And let us not deceive ourselves, too, when we speak of..., of returning or posing to the service of the social logue and of social ends, the real estate activities of the Sareb we think, therefore, that there must be a very clear position, our leaving it so well known, is that we think that these immobiles must be returned, without cost, to the common good. The consent, so... – we think so, huh? Unfortunately, the motion, as it has ended, the consensus is high and part of the proposed measures sound very good to the ears and to us too; but we think that they do not stop being, therefore, small reforms or, pieces, that in any case solve a structural problem, that it is an economic model and Catalan production, based on tourism, basically, and on the services, that it is, in some way, therefore, possible, or in giving temporary jobs, low wages, unstable times, sexual segregations according to the type of work, not to speak of the facility that gives, sometimes, this violation of social rights. This harsh reality needs, we think, clear convictions in the fact that formation plays a role in the world of work. We need to combat inequalities and, indeed, we want to give equal opportunities, because we think that there will be no social and youth inclusion without these profound structural changes. To understand this situation, this reality that so cruelly brings home to young people, we cannot do it, we think, from reforms or pieces, even though politics is not full, eh? , small reforms and pieces, which, sometimes and at length, have proved to be very important. But we think that these small pieces or reforms should always be proposed in the general framework of political wills, and we think that in these political wills, and in the case that it deals with them, we should clearly indicate who are the culprits who have brought us here and who do not allow these problems that we are dealing with today to be solved. Let's point out all those who speculate and treat habitat as a commodity and all those who work the young force of work, every time more exploited. This is the reason why, we think, our parliamentary group is not going to stay in the comfort zone, we have not negotiated on what point we found ourselves better or worse and we would opt for for forbearance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.227.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.228.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies..., agrate, again, the whole and predisposition of all the companies. Mr. Garriga, I did not intend to change the world or solve all the problems we have in this country, nor in the world without this young man – with this young man. We'll change... we'll change it another way. But he did want to put the emphasis on urgency, on the most urgent issues of the young man and we believe that with this young man we can put our grit to solve these problems, which are unfortunately very big. Practically all the groups were accepted, because the intention was not to capitalize on this young man, but rather to improve and improve, also, the life, of all the young people. Everyone, especially the younger ones, has an obligation to move from a frustrated generation, as we said in that interpellation, to an elusive generation. Only 11_percent of young people are satisfied with politics today in Catalonia; 11_percent of young people are satisfied with politics. That has to make us all – all of us – reflect on the Members who are in this Parliament, and especially on those who take longer; but, I insist, on all Members; because no political regeneration, no powerful change in this country has come without young people and without the illusion of young people. To thank again, as I said, the treatment received and the commitment of wanting to push this motion over the differences, and let us hope that this is the beginning of many other motions and of many other measures to try to improve the lives of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.229.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Rabell, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.230.0	It is to request a separate vote from the last point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-04-21-1402.231.0	The 7th? [[Pause.]] Only a separate vote from point 7 has been requested. Therefore, we will vote first on this point and then vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let's vote, then, point number 7. The vote begins. It was approved by 109 votes in favour, against and 20 abstentions. Next, we will now vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It was adopted by 119 votes to 10. [[Greetings.]] The session's up.
