ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.1.0	The session is open. The list of questions to answer in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda. The record also that, according to Rule 93 of the Rules, for this plenary session the deputies Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and Ángels Martínez Castells, of the Catalan Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, have delegated their vote to the spokesman of your group, Mrs Eva Granados and Mr Joan Coscubala. [[Greetings to our Members]] So, I would like to greet the Member of Parliament, Adriana Delgado, of the Grupo Parlamentari Junts per el Si, who joins a plenary session today. Welcome. [[Ask the Government about reports inviting public workers to disobey the state of law]] [[310-00024/11]] Let's start asking the government. First question, about reports inviting public workers to disobey the state of law. The question is posed by María José García Cuevas, of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.2.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Governor, a couple of weeks ago we heard a report from the ANC on the criminal consequences of civil servants' actions during the secession. How do you view this report? Does the Government share its findings?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.3.0	Counselor Meritxell's answer is clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, you ask us for the report that the ANC has made and that we stand for respect, and, with all due respect, I will not do so. I won't do it because what we're supposed to do is explain what the government is doing, what action it takes in this matter, and so I'm happy to explain it to you, but not to position myself over everything that the third parties think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.5.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.6.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, the ANC isn't a sprinkling brotherhood, huh? [[Rialles.]] And, look, despite the dubious legal solvency of this report, we are concerned that the ANC, an association of known ties and influence in this government – there is nothing but looking at its bench or the presidency of this Parliament – is addressing officials cheering them happily to join the process, with siren chants that paint secession as something harmless, to the letter and without consequences. And, look, it is clear that a unilateral secession involves, in the moment of truth, violating democratic legality and coexistence. And it is clear that officials who fail to fulfil their obligations will have to face the consequences that our system foresees. The ANC aims to reassure a group that needs as necessary collaborators, and is deceiving them. Officials know that their obligation is to act in accordance with the law and that the only possible legality is that compatible with the Constitution, by legal certainty and by normative hierarchy. And they know that a law annulled by the Constitutional Court is not another legality, it is directly a manifest illegality, and that is why applying it entails sanctions. There is no coverage or legal guarantee possible when the Constitutional Court suspends or annuls a law. And this must be made very clear, because obedience due to command or superior in no case justifies an official disobeying a court or acting in manifest illegality. And there is no more to read under articles 483-84, 506 and 549 of the Criminal Code, precisely those which the ANC forgets in this report. Look, it is very clear that the ANC has launched a campaign to intoxicate and deceive the Catalan public service. And we believe that officials play a lot in this and have the right to know to what extent the Government supports or denies this campaign, this report and these conclusions. And you can't profile yourself, because ambiguity generates a lot of uneasiness and it's collaborating with deception. That is why I ask you, and it is your duty, and I would ask you to answer with a yes or a no to the more than two hundred and thousand public employees that the Generalitat has: does your Government support the ANC's conclusions for officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.7.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of Parliament, you insist on the position on the ANC report, and I have already told you: I will not do it. I won't, but I will explain to him what the government is doing, and it seems to me that you, in fact, already know. The Government – and the competent bodies in this matter, in the matter of personnel – has not reported on this subject in question. And, therefore, no report that I am asking, that I give the instruction, that I invite you to clearly fail to comply with the law in force or that I urge the public workers to disobey the state of law. That's not true, we haven't done it or we will. Therefore, as much as I insist, peace of mind: there is no report in this sense, we do not invite to fail. For another band, the government will not place a public servant in a risk situation. And, it is true, the Administration acts with a principle of hierarchy, but it is also certain that it acts, therefore, subtly respecting the law and, therefore, the law in force at all levels. And that's what it's gonna do from the civil service, the Civil Service Directorate. But respect the ANC's report, which, therefore, is quite obsessed with it, to say that the difference between the government and you is that we believe that the ANC, as any other entity, can have an opinion, can have criteria and can express it, whether on this matter or any other. This is the essence of democracy. This government, unlike you, believes in freedom of expression, and also in freedom of expression for the ANC. We do not pursue or bring to court those who think differently than we do, which you have done with the Catalan assemblies that have gathered the resolution of 9 November through your motions. Now, yes, the courts are already dismissing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.9.0	Second question, about the presence of the Spanish army's stalls at the Teaching Hall. [[Ask the Government about the presence of Spanish army stands at the Teaching Hall]] [[310-00019/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Pilar Castillejo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.10.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. We address our question to the Councillor of Education, Mrs Meritxell Ruiz. And we want to ask who are the actions that the Government has undertaken to prevent the presence of armed forces at the Teaching Hall, which is to celebrate its own days in Barcelona. We want to remind the Councilwoman, even though she already knows that this Parliament approved a resolution last July, in this sense, which the Government urged, and especially the Department of Education, as coordinator of the Teaching Hall, to do all the relevant management with Fira de Barcelona because in the proper editions of the hall there is no participation in the Spanish Armed Forces. Do not do anything from the office, as it seems, since we see that the army has announced its presence with a stand in the hall, convert the resolutions that this Parliament takes into full play. And not only that, but also, and once again, makes the same LEC paper mullat. The Catalonian Education Law places conflict resolution in the educational framework as one of its main objectives, and the participation of the Armed Forces in the Teaching Hall is a step closer to the culture of war to resolve conflicts. Therefore, we want to know who these government actions have been to avoid the presence of the Armed Forces at the Teaching Hall and thus promote the culture of the pau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.11.0	There's the word the Teaching Counselor, Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, first of all, tell her that the Teaching Hall knows that it is an annual event that makes it oriented towards giving young people and their families all the range of training offers for students who complete their compulsory training. They know well that there is an offer of vocational training studies, baccalaureate, official language schools, the Institut Obert de Catalunya, adult training centres, artistic and sporting lessons. In this edition, what we are promoting is integrated vocational training and strengthening individual orientation and care. And as a novelty, encanny, will also dedicate a space of demonstrations of industrial professional training, because the vegan visitors as the automated industrial process from the first to the packaging is due to the end. Therefore, we are promoting everything that the FP law of Catalonia says. And, for what he does to the subject he's talking about, it's true that there are 182 exhibitors in the Teaching Hall, and one of them, as you said, will be the Spanish army. For what it does to the administrative part, this room, the rule for which it is regulated is in the collaboration agreement signed between Fira de Barcelona, the Department of Education and the Department of Enterprise; it is a agreement that was signed the year 2008 for a later time, and in which it is contemplated who are the organizations and institutions that can participate. In this sense, I want to announce to you, because we have already spoken to the Fira and the Department of Economy, that we will review this with the rest of the administrations and institutions to rethink the presence of the army and thus compliment Resolution 1141/X of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.13.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.14.0	Yes, thank you very much. We see that the actions that the government has taken, then, have not been made, as we said before, but they have planned this review of the agreement, but for now we have not made any action. We don't think there's enough of this review of the agreement, because the Spanish army and other military and police personnel are still present this year in other educational and cultural areas in Catalonia. As an example, the army finds itself on the edge of Lleida's mountain tourism; the army returns, one more year, to the Espai de l'Student de Valls – to the Ple d'accompaniment has also carried motions to rebuild the military presence, and precisely today it will vote a motion to the Regional Council of the High Camp to rebuild the military presence in this educational area – ; to the own days, as we have already said, to the Hall of Education of Barcelona we will once again hold the seat of the army, as well as the resolution of the Parliament of what we are talking about and the institutional declaration of the Barcelona Consistor that this presence is returned. We also had the presence of Mossos, Urban Guard and Civil Guard and the Spanish Army at the Festival de la Infància de Barcelona. The presence of the army in these educational and religious spaces reaffirms a counter bet on the values of education and peaceful coexistence. The participation of the military in these events intends to present the military option as educational, humane, peaceful, for the young, still giving a friendly image of the army and thus distorting the reality that it supposes to be involved in military life. Public administrations have an obligation to age so that young people find an office that brings value to add to society, and learning to kill is not one. Moreover, and lastly, to note that the presence of the Spanish army in these events is a contradiction with the Catalan national liberation process. The Spanish Constitution...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.15.0	Mrs. Congresswoman, you've run out of time... you know, I'm having a hard time. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.16.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, we insist that we have already contacted each other to review this arrangement. I do want to point out that what's been enhanced a lot more in this room is all that refers to orientation. We will have eighty-one student advisors, with personalized advice and guided tours in reduced groups to teach all the information needed to know and familiarize yourself with the different format paths. And tell him, therefore, that the saloon continues to be a referent of the educational and educational offer of our country. Taking into account that the future and the progress go through a formation, as you say, of your citizenship, we will look for the strategy so that in the future it is a bracer, continue to be a formation bracer for young people and adults, and to summon to the hall the institutions that best represent the formation of the future that we want for our country. And, obviously, this is not a military formation, and it is a formation with pioneer sectors, such as technology or industry. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.17.0	Third question, on health transport. [[Ask the Government about health transportation]] [[310-00020/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you have a problem, and it's called health transportation; well, you have a few, but this one's big. It was the most important public contest of the last legislature, it already generated a lot of controversy in the bidding and bidding process and it is creating a lot of concern in its deployment. In some territories, the nine contracting companies have been deployed late, and in the majority, poorly. As we were afraid, the name of vehicles has been given, there have been irregularities in elements of work security at bases and conflicts in staff subrogation. And it's all folding up the service. What do you think you're doing, counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.19.0	There's a word from Salut's advisor, Mr. Toni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.20.0	Madam President, honourable Member, we actually have a new model of urgent and non-urgent health transport. We're clearing up a series of premises. It is inspired by what has been done in Barcelona since the 1980s, and in Barcelona this model has been, in the circumstances of Barcelona, a model that has had some results..., the sector recognizes that they are positive, eh? And he's a model that we know that... what's he doing? Try to prioritize the stability of the disease, of the patient, of the person who had the incident in the place where it is found before moving, eh? And it's a bit of a change in philosophy that's in this model, which is certainly the model of countries like Denmark and Sweden. Now, this model, which only a few weeks ago came into operation, for example, in Girona – Girona came into operation on the 14th generation, which was the day the government took possession of it – has generated many incidences since the first moment. We are fully aware that this model, from the first days, has generated many incidences. Therefore, the government intends to act; it intends to act and in the second part of the answers, if in case, I will explain with more detail what actions we intend to undertake.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.21.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.22.0	Counselor, since I am talking about the model: model VIR, which can be very good for Barcelona, but I suppose you know that you have nothing to see much of the territory of Catalonia with which it is Barcelona, neither with how the population is distributed nor with the time we have to get to our referral hospital more properly. By the way, territories, the rest of Catalonia, where they had already been very affected by the girls' details for the previous government – Democratic Convergence, Mr. Boi Ruiz – in the CAPs and in the night times of the CAPs. In this same territory you apply a VIR model that is generating insecurity in professionals, doctors and nurses, and is generating a lot of insecurity, in the band of inefficiency, in the activation of resources. And I say to him: act quickly not only in trying to reverse this inheritance of wrong models for Catalonia – that we had a model of success in the rest of Catalonia, in the band of Barcelona – but also act quickly to reverse what is getting into the service. In the sanitary transport there has been an increase in hope; indignant hope, that already existed, now we are talking about hours and hours that the people must be waiting to go or return from dialysis, or, finally, of cases of people who have not reached the treatment because the sanitary transport has not arrived – cases of my region, the West Valley, the first weeks of the new company of the deployment. Do you know that there are ambulances at the hospital emergency doors now? Last week, for example, in Tortosa: seven ambulances with patients waiting for up to three hours at the entrance of the Verge Hospital of the Belt. They'll get more than a thousand signatures from the Lands of the Ebre claiming they'll be returned to the out-of-the-box ambulances. Do you know that there are no PIUCs – the winter reinforcements – and that this is impetuous, as I said, the situation of winter in the emergency rooms at the hospital? Do you know that we have doubts about the completion of the isocrons, the times of care for people, with health transportation? This is integrative of the service, of the health service in Catalonia, of the service, also, through the health transport. Be quick before he gets complaints from the city and not just firm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.23.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.24.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I thank you very much for your focus on this problem, because I think it is important that we follow all of you. The department is working hard, and now I'm explaining it, but it's fine that we can take this to the hemic; I think it'll help us all, because, in the end, the recipients are the citizens and what we need to do is to improve the service they receive. Incidences from day one, that's it. What we're trying to do is whether these incidents have to do, above all, with the implantation and whether they're problems related to the implementation process of the new model or are the model's own own incidents in itself that, outside Barcelona, don't work. Girona, it's true, it's where there are more problems. In urgent health care, the problems are work-related, but there has been no incidence on the part of the patients; however, in change, in non-urgent health care we have a mountain of incidences. In rehabilitation and dialysis, effectively, things are complicated in a way that did not happen with the previous model. So, what have we done? From the outset, Girona's health region acted on the 20th generation, six days after the model was implanted in Girona and six days after this advisor took possession, he already made a meeting to ask for better – and I will detail it later, if he wants, the list of better that he asked for. There's still some kind of inference. Therefore, three measures that this Government will take: first, to open shippers and, if the result of the shippers is that there have been irregularities that cannot be justified, to be blunt; second, to wait for a few months, a few weeks more to see, effectively, whether the problems are implant or model problems – at the place where we still don't carry three_months we won't be able to draw conclusions so quickly to know who are the best we have to do – and three, we have taken care of, and this is the last decision that has come...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.25.0	Counselor, time is running out. I'm having a hard time. Fourth question, about... – now he's going to talk again, that's why. Fourth question, on the criteria for allocating the resources of the basic areas of salvation. [[Ask the Government about the criteria for allocating the resources of the basic areas of salvation]] [[310-00025/11]] Asks the question Mrs Alba Vergés, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the last health report and the last report of the Observers of the Catalonia Health System – which makes a territorial analysis, also, on the effects of the economic crisis in health – tell us the following, respects socio-economic determinants that affect the state of health: more beneficial classes and with more level of training are still healthier, and they also have more preventive practices; they suffer less chronic disorders and disabilities; on the other hand, children of less-favoured classes have a more sedentary style of oci, with the consequent problem of salvation. The population today has a higher risk of mental distress; the age of more than two years tending to grow also has important consequences for health. The decline in income available to the world, the change in the boss of the poor... – if before the crisis the most affected people were older than sixty-four years, this change has already been and is now the children. The conclusion of the report is that all policies of welfare and redistribution of income and wealth are important to improve salvation, since the most vulnerable collectivities are the worst walls, also in salvation. The universal coverage we have and avoidable co-optings according to them makes a fan of dampening the negative effects whenever they work out well, the negative effects of the crisis. But if inequality plays an important role in the state of salvation, it is also very important that the Department of Health encloses the inequality factor to develop its policies. If we add that primary care is the backbone of our care system, what measures... – that's the question – what measures does the department think about in the long term so that primary care can include the inequality factor and allocate resources with criteria according to the needs? And if they can advance any predictions to implant them. I add one thing: if we know that resources are not limitless and we know that to make policies more than our own, we can count, also, counselor, that all this information and all the work that is done for salvation, we will put it at the disposal of integral policies, interdepartmental policies, with other councils – and with this I think of mental health, that we do not complement the objectives marked, yet, with interventions to protect mental health, above all the prevention of suicide, in people at work; I also think of chronicity, I think of public health, and I also think of policies of occupation, of access to decent housing, education, etc. – that ultimately lead us to build this society more free and fair than we want? Hi, we think you have to contribute actively to this, and therefore we ask you to be active in these comprehensive policies for the welfare of people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.27.0	There's a word from Salut's advisor, Mr. Toni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, thank you for the question. We will not tire of repeating – we will not tire of repeating – that the best policy of salvation is the construction of a first-division welfare state. Because all the indicators show us that there is a direct correlation between inequality, in the distribution of income and wealth, and salutation. Fiscal policy is therefore a policy of salvation. And education policy is a policy of salvation. The policy of salvation is all but, effectively, from the Department of Health, to the unequal factor we have to give an absolutely primary and priority attention. So one of the things that we have already started working from the department is to take into account the socioeconomic situation of the people at the time of distributing the resources that we have at our disposal, mainly professional primary care, which is the main resource with which primary care counts. It's already ugly – this is already ugly – now, when we look at how resources are distributed – it's to say, as we assign the population to the different basic areas of salvation, how much population up to each basic area of salvation – it takes into account a socio-economic type indicator that is the level of income, and enough. And the other indicators are envelope – envelope index –, they are dispersion and the main indicator that is, first of all, the name of people. For this reason, if you look, the majority of basic areas of salvation have a very similar population; similar mass, because we know that the needs of the different basic areas of salvation do not depend, basically, on their population, on the socioeconomic situation of their population. So, what have we done? We have commissioned to the Aquas that, from the index Medea, do a study of who are the needy in salvation of the different areas of the people of Catalonia. Because what we have to do is not distribute resources according to the population, but distribute resources according to the needs. The principle is not: the same population, the same name of professionals; the principle must be: the same need for salvation, the same name of professionals. And so, before the summer, the Aquas will deliver this report to us, and as a result, we will reassign the resources of primary care so that we complement this criterion, which is first and foremost the criterion of equity and justice: equal needs in health – that they are greater in the socially most depressed areas, as we all know – equal resources. And, therefore, we will take into account indicators which, until now, have not been taken into account, such as the rate of growth, the index of school success, etc. Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.29.0	Five questions, about the inn in operation of the Campus Besòs of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia. [[Ask the Government about the inn in operation of the Campus Besòs of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia]] [[310-00026/11]] The question is posed by Mr Antoni Castellà, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.30.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, in Prat de la Riba he said that "without original science there is no original industry, and without original industry in a country there is no independent economy, and he continued: "Today's science will be our rich public tomorrow. And that's a hundred and eleven years ago, not what we all know as the Urgell Industrial School. And this was the work of the current Polytechnic University of Catalonia, which recently, in the last few years, came out among the hundred best in the world and which, together with the rest of our country's universities and research centres, constitutes Catalonia as the most important knowledge pole in southern Europe. It is in this sense that in 2011, in the midst of a deep economic and public financial crisis, the Generality, the parliament, the assemblies and the UPC decided, probably, to reverse the most important ones that have taken place these five years, probably only exceeded by line 9 of the metro: the Besòs Diagonal Campus, as a new space of knowledge and innovation, as a space to rethink engineering, intensify research in the field of energy, chemistry or materials. But as important, honourable counselor, as what, is where to do it. And it was decided that such a strategic reversal as this is between Barcelona and Sant Adrià, in the Besòs, on the side of the Mine, with all the opportunity of economic and social regeneration that this may suppose for that environment. It is in this sense that, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, honourable councillor, we are interested to know at what point, with which calendar the full functioning of the new Besòs Diagonal Campus will begin, with which content, with which size and, honourable councillor, above all, who believes that it can be the impact on a territory as needed as this, with such a strategic reversal as this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.31.0	Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, as you said, the Diagonal Besòs Campus of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia is the great investment in university, in university infrastructure, that has made this government, I would say that not in the last five years, but I would almost like to say in the last decade, eh? Because it was very important. And so important is what, that will start the coming course, with three buildings, 53,000_metres_squares. When there are all students there are 3,500 students on campus, more than 400 teachers and research staff. There will be 27 research groups at the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, but also some energy research center such as the IRC. But as important as what it is, and what it will be, is how it happened. You said this: it happened in an environment of great economic and presuppositional difficulty, and it also happened from realism, because this was a project that began in 2011, and if this project had not been reconsidered from a more realistic basis, on the part of the administrations that did it, not today..., this course would not have started, and it would not have started. And, for that matter, it was done. And it took place from the collaboration, from the collaboration of the university, the Generality, the Barcelona City Council, the Barcelona City Council, the Sant'Adrià City Council and, also, the Barcelona City Council. That's it. And what's going to happen? So, following history and the future, the Industrial School, which began with Prat de la Riba, will be transferred to the Besòs Campus, and there will continue the schools, the formation of industrial engineers, but with new technologies, with material, with energy, with biomedicine, with whatever it is. And you said it, it's not just important for what it's for, it's for where it is. Then there was another motivation that made the Government of the Generality bet for the Diagonal-Besòs Campus: it is that it is between Barcelona and Sant'Adrià, it is that it is in the Besòs, and, as the mayor of Sant'Adrià said, with whom we have made a visit of works..., he said: "It is a miracle that thirty years ago there was a shopkeeper today if there was a university campus for the future of this country. And that's what the Government of the Generality and other administrations have helped to do together. Thank you, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.33.0	Sixena asks, about the destination of mural paintings of the Royal Monestir of Santa Maria de Sixena. [[Ask the Government about the destination of mural paintings of the Royal Monestir of Santa Maria de Sixena]] [[310-00027/11]] The question is posed by Ms Teresa Vallverdú, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.34.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the question of the benefits of the Monestir de Sixena is found in a long judicial way. We understand that before the difficulties, the dialog, the negotiation and the agreement are preferable. In this line, a few days ago a decision was made to avoid a judicial settlement. Now, it's no stranger to have raised doubts, uncertainties and knowing that fifty-three works of art from the Monestir de Sixena had been immediately returned. These fish form part of a total of noranta-sets. Apart from these fifty-three, stored at the MNAC and not catalogued, there are forty-four more at the Diocesan Museum of Lleida that form part of the Catalog of the Cultural Heritage of Catalonia. For another band, there was also an open cause for the paintings of the capitular room of the Monestir de Sixena, exposed to the MNAC and part of an indivisible collection protected for the Law of Catalan Heritage. From the Museum of Lleida and from the MNAC it is demanded the maintenance of the works in its current location. The value and unity of the Lleida Museum collection is unquestionable. The MNAC is a world reference museum in Romanesque, has preserved murals and meets the strictest standards of conservation. And the move of these paintings, very bad for the fire of the Civil War, would be very harmful. All negotiation, for another band, is based on counterparts – I don't doubt that this too – but for the time being, the judicial process and the Bishop of Barbastre-Montsó and the Assembly of Sixena have made sure that this is the iniquitous one and that it will only negotiate the full return of the totality of the assets. Disappointment of the overall negotiating strategy and initial divestments by the Government of Aragó makes it easy to hurt sensibilities and create misunderstandings. First, therefore, it may be necessary to explain the negotiation strategy in a clear and open manner. Is this surrender up to the courthouse? What counter-performance will have the return of these works? Then, clarify who will be the owner of the fifty-three works that will surrender to Sixena. Des d'Aragó, consider that the sale they made was fraudulent, but the cause is still not closed. So, will you continue to feel the Generality? Is it about a deposit or is it about the works? If it's a deposit, do they have return mechanisms? For another band, will the forty-four works of the Museum of Lleida enter into negotiations or will they be protected by the fact of being catalogued? In short, Counselor, do political negotiations with the Government of Aragó guarantee that all the works of Sixena continue to be part of the cultural heritage of Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.35.0	The word has the Lord Santi Vila, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.36.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Illustrated deputy, well, in relation to this question that you have perfectly described, bear in mind that we have inherited a conflict; a conflict that is absolutely veritable, a conflict full of lies, false accusations, and we have the opportunity to form part of a solution. Based on a criterion, or a guiding principle, it is not only that we have a shared heritage, between aragonese and Catalans, but also that we have a shared responsibility. And in this sense, from the year 36, with the Josep Gudiol in front, the Catalans – if I may generalize – we have actively participated in protection, safeguard, conservation actions, and it has been generously done, with public money, with these administrations, until our days. Indeed, you have explained, at these moments there are two disputes about this issue, one concerning wall paintings and the other concerning a hundred objects that you consider or pose in question your property. The origin in relation to the objects is, indeed, a sale that was produced, that we can believe and that makes it possible at these times to own property, eh? , of these objects follow either the Government of Catalonia or the National Museum of Art of Catalonia. This, at this point, is being brought to justice, with firm feelings that are still not only firm in the execution. With regard to the murals, what have we planted? We are absolutely convinced that we would injure in an irreparable, irreversible form the wall paintings if they were torn in these moments. Therefore, we must be able to believe in the short term the possibility, the viability of this move in the long term; in the second place, what cost and what economic assumption it takes, and, in the third place, we must ask ourselves, in relation to mural paintings, from where we can give the greatest diffusion to these mural paintings, if from a national museum that has accredited the ability to protect, preserve and diffuse to the world, or from, in this case, Sixena, who, at these times, at the date of today, still does not meet the conditions. In short, the Government of Aragó, the Government of Catalonia and, more passively, the Ministry of Culture are called upon to jointly manage a whole heritage that, I insist, we have the responsibility to project to the world, to protect, and, to the band of these, therefore, that the judicial proceedings that question the property resolve what is to be solved. In no case will he make any kind of donation. These works, these joint assets, will be part of a deposit, huh? , which we will jointly manage and manage the two administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.37.0	Seven questions, about the industry. [[Ask the Government about industry]] [[310-00021/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.38.0	Honourable Councillor, 2012 was a pact, a very important pact for Catalonia, the pact « More industry, entities, agents and experts in the industrial sector were involved. In this pact there were 138 very important, cross-cutting proposals that put industry at the centre of the political debate in Catalonia, after a very important deindustrialisation process and with the objectives of reindustrialising Catalonia, and within a Spanish and European framework, which it had as its final tape by 2020. Mr. Counselor, many of these experts today confirm that they have not implemented a good part of the measures that they were there, and, possibly, all that you are new to the Government, your previous Government, therefore, have good fault and must have passed it on so that it has not been done. Counselor, do you also think that the best industrial policy is the one that does not exist?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.39.0	Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.40.0	Thank you, very honorable President. No, sir, let's not think about it; the best industrial policy is what it is and it's what it is. And we have an absolutely industrial-political government; it's one of our priorities and we'll do it, and in fact, we've been doing it for a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.41.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.42.0	Honourable Councillor, as has been said once, Catalonia will be industrial or not. I suppose we share that. But the data, their own data, those of Idescat, tell us that, for example, 2_percent of Catalonia's industrial enterprises in 2015 have disappeared; that industrial GDP in Catalonia has not moved, yet we have proposed that 2020 our goal would be 25_percent of gross domestic product in industry, and we are far from achieving it. We also believe that it is necessary to implement these measures with the measures of the Pact. "More industry, we believe that it is essential to do so, and we also believe, on the other hand, that we must work in a Catalan pact for industry. This catal pact of the industry will require the consent of everyone, also of the agents, but also of this chamber. I think it's very important for the future of Catalonia. But in order to do this we want priority, and because you have the priority of the industry, you also have to choose between: you have to choose between whether you want to walk towards work and synergies with the rest of Spain and with Europe or whether you want to work for the path of the seven months where there is a border and where you find the end of a path that is very clear that it is incompatible with working for the industry and working on yarns that go further there, towards 2020, etc. We are very clear, Counselor; are you clear? We work for the priority of all Catalans; will you also do it or will you only do it for a minority of Catalans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.43.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.44.0	Mr. MP, this government works for all Catalans and all Catalans, for all, for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans in this country, because they have progress, because they have work and because they can do their life and future project. Miri, industrial policy. We, with the Pact "More industry, when it was presented and 'introduced the measures, the former president of the Generality, the former councillor of Enterprise and Occupation gathered there; the measures were analyzed; they were made with the industrial strategy approved by the Government of Catalonia approximately 80_percent of the measures already recorded; some–some– we could not do them because aspects related to costs and energy, aspects related to infrastructures, like the Corridor of the Mediterranean, therefore, chosen, depend on the willingness of other institutions, and therefore... But all that depends on our mother, more than 80_percent of the measures, are there. We'll do the industrial strategy. We have a country... Catalonia is an industrial country; indeed, today we are completing what was proposed by 2020 and the European strategy 2020 for the year 2020, for the year 2025, is to say that there is a 20_percent of Catalonia's GDP that is still industrial. We already have it, and we want 2020 to be 25_per_cent. That's our guess. So, yes, we're doing industrial politics. And we're going to make industrial policies straight, not with borders and not with the state, all over the world, because the future of the Catalan industry is if it internationalizes and innovates. And he's doing it, and he's doing it with a lot of intensity. That's why there are every time more industrial projects that they have to do with Catalonia, and what we want is that the industry continues to feel it. And I'm glad your group has a big interest in the industry. I have read the agreement that you made with the Socialist Group, the PSOE and the Citizens, and I have seen, I have read how many times the word 'industry' appears in this agreement: one, referring to cultural industries. We have cultural industries and everything else and all sectors of industry, because they are all important. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.45.0	Next question, about the Cambrils Cooperative. [[Ask the Government about the Cambrils Cooperative]] [[310-00022/11]] The question is posed by Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.46.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, the question is for Mr Junqueras, responsible for the economic area and vice president of the Government, and it is the following: what is the action that the Government of the Generality envisages in the problem of the Agricultural Cooperative of Cambrils? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.47.0	The Economic Adviser, Mr Oriol Junqueras, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.48.0	Good morning, everybody. President... Deputy, the current government, which has six weeks of life, and the previous government have aged and followed, have supervised all agricultural cooperatives and all sections of credit, obviously, also, that of Cambrils. For this reason, we have met with various departments, with the cooperative and with other institutions in the territory, starting with their joint venture; we have met with the Vice-President and Economy, we have met with the Enterprise and Knowledge, or we have done, for example, with Agriculture, and that is what we will continue to do, for the interests of the cooperatives and all the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.49.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.50.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Junqueras, go to the point where I don't question your performance, or, if I may, still don't question your performance. So far you've shown, you don't run away, you don't run away from the problem, and you don't give your face as a government. But now the reality, Mr. Vice President, is that March 22nd, 20 days from now, there has to be a viability plan for the table to avoid the competition of creditors. They ask him to take it as a repte, to take it all, all folded up, as a repte; that what we speak in this Parliament and what this Government of the Generality does has a direct, positive influence on the concrete, direct problems that affect citizens. They ask you concretely, Mr. Vice President, that the Government of the Generality lead a table of administrations in which all are present, with all the economic organizations that it touches, and together with the affected, because it has or does not have competence in the administration of what is being treated as an agricultural cooperative, they have all to help in a problem of the magnitude of 1,500 families in a population of 30,000 inhabitants. This table formed by everyone – managers of the cooperative, affected and administrations –, Mr Vice President, we should be able to pull forward the proposal of the viability plan that serves to avoid the competition of creditors. I don't take it away from him, Mr. Vice President, or, at least, not yet; but they ask him to be active, very active. If it evokes the intelligence and sensitivity that I presume, I am sure that they can demonstrate, all folds, this positive influence of the real problems of the citizens, of our lives and of our lives. The ultimate goal is to guarantee the return of the students to the people who trusted in a small entity, the people, all their lives. And that's not going to happen again, because it might be that the entity has also crossed the threshold of the recommanable as to the grant of mortgage credits, and the Generality, in its controls, does not know or does not act. We would definitely like to rule out that that's the way it is. We want information, Mr. Vice President, up-to-date and at all times what you've been through to get to this situation and what you're doing to try to solve and find solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.51.0	The vice president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.52.0	First of all, I share my interest in the matter with you; I celebrate and thank you, too, for the interest that you have shown, and, obviously, I also thank you that, at least, you still don't make us responsible. The question is how we act, isn't it? I'll help you. Indeed, the current situation is a pre-contest situation. And you explained that three weeks from now this pre-contest situation was over. The cooperative has to make a decision – a cooperative is a private company. The Generalitat de Catalunya, the Government of Catalonia, does not exercise administrative guardianship, supervises its functioning. So, we're still in time, we're in time to save him. The government has made various proposals– in fact, it has not made many –; it has also, after all, made important proposals around the issue. We're in time to save him. And it seems to me that it is the responsibility of all of us, especially those responsible, who are the co-operatives, who are the masters of the enterprise, to take the best decisions. The best decision, surely, for this cooperative, is not to go to a competitive situation, not to go to a liquidation situation. Because that would endanger the legitimate interests of all co-operatives. The government is committed to a follow-up of parties if we emerge from this pre-competitive situation: through downstream – 7_million_i_mig euros downstream by the government –, a participatory loan of 3_million euros by Advance, and also, the intervention of the Catalan Institute of Finance in strengthening the capitalization of the cooperative. The Government is therefore asking for resources. We are convinced that he is putting in the resources he can put in without going beyond what circumstances and law allow us to go around. If we do it, and we do it right, we'll get out of it. And I thank you again for your intervention. And I'm sure there'll be everyone's commitment to get the cooperative to meet and its partners to protect their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.53.0	Ninth question, about the local world. [[Ask the Government about the local world]] [[310-00023/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.54.0	Excuse me, President, I'll ask the question...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.55.0	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Eva Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.56.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, as you well know, the assemblies we are the most citizen-friendly administration, and the one that is attentive – without sufficient resources and, on many occasions, without competition – the emergency situations that have arisen from the crisis, paying the bills of light, gas, fresh food, pharmacy expenses, complementing groceries or paying books of text. At the same time, it is contributing to economic recovery with a multitude of good practices: aid to entrepreneurs, favourable employment plans, encouraging the hiring of young people or long-term fruit trees. Do you, the councillor, think of establishing some extraordinary mechanism for collecting the end-of-life performance of local entities?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.57.0	Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.58.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Deputy, surely, the assemblies are the entrance door of people, of citizens, to the Administration. And, therefore, this is the first one to give him an answer. And, certainly, also, it is not all the resources available to the local administration to give it an answer. In this sense, the Government of Catalonia, not from now on forward, but until now, we have taken different actions to look at being at the side, in the measure of possibilities, of gatherings to deal with this situation of difficulty for so many citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.59.0	I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.60.0	In recent years, the Generality has ceased to be an entity that cooperates with the assemblies to become the major debtor. We wear five years of paralysis and apology. The gatherings, to which he does not pay, must resort to credit, and we must pay interest. As a result, the generality's debt and treasuries are being centrifuged in conjunction. Only a few data: there are joints that can easily be financed by credit entities, but there are no more than no. And, besides, this debt can represent a 15, a 20, a 30, including a 50_percent of its current assumption. For example, the Hospital Assembly, 12,7_million euros in debt; Valls, 3,3_million euros in debt and a 13_percent of the budget; Cornellà, 3,9_million euros in debt and a 14_percent of the budget; Borredà, 284,000_euros, more than 35_percent of the budget. In the March 10th appearance, it was compromised to publish the debt of the joints. Today, we have known that the total import of this debt is EUR 633 million. When will the detailed publication of this debt, for municipalities, concepts and antiquity, and so can it be consulted for all citizens? With the answer to a parliamentary question about the debt, the Law of Stability is used as an excuse not to face the debt with the joints. I would like to remind you that the same Act of Enabling was approved for Convergence and Union to Congress, when the government with the absolute majority of the PP did not need it. The Law of Stabilitation scans the investments of the municipalities, a law approved in 2012 of which is complaint, but they did not want to bring to the Constitutional Court. As the councillor responsible for cooperation and support to the local administration, do you intend to explain to us to take over the municipal entities again? Will he explain to us how he will prioritize resources to make investments that people need and that carry years of paralysis? Do you have a plan for this?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.61.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member, indeed, the government of the Generality's debt with local administrations is not a minor debt. And this is a subject on which we have never imagined the head under the wing, we have explained the things as they are, we were going to do it in the appearance and so we answer the different questions, whether they are oral or written, that you two end up. But to be honest, with everything you exposed, it would have been fine, too, that you explained what is the real situation that the Government of Catalonia, therefore, suffers: a situation of less entrances, a situation of economic crisis that we live in, and, for another band, you also know, of the premeditated nature that on the part of the Spanish Government is due to the end. Therefore, in this sense, no excuse, explanation of a raw reality, and, in this sense, what it represents, therefore, it offends the Government of Catalonia with its consequences, because it is, also, it offends the assembly, the local administrations and, at the head and at the end, a bad financing, also, to everything that the citizens of Catalonia require. Therefore, in this sense, we would like to feel them, sometimes, more on our side at the time of defending what represents money for the citizen of Catalonia. But, obviously, this government is thinking of giving you an answer, and it's thinking of giving you an answer through different objects that you know. And, therefore, we have announced that we will do, in a manner similar to different actions, so follow the Fons of local cooperation, follow the RIS3, follow the housing policies, etc. But ask him one thing: I'm sure you will help them that they can make from the government will be major for the assemblies, if they help us, from the outset, to defend the finances of the Government of Catalonia, and, in the second term, to have a premise that can give answer to the needy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.63.0	Questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the short-term debt of the Generalitat and the repercussions on the draft law of assumptions]] [[317-00014/11]] This question concerns the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.64.0	Thank you, President. Go for a record: today forty-two years from Puig Antich's murder. Well, Mr President, if the data on the debt that the Generality accumulates and the money that has been destined to pay the dues, those interests of this, were already particularly difficult, and placed the department of the debt as the government's most important second, as far as expenditure is concerned, these last few days we have known that the Generality has a debt at short notice– at one year's notice–, which has already expired, and has therefore begun to account for the payment of interest in delay, interests of a much higher index than conventional. Hundred_millions of debt to Bank Bilbao Argentaria of a credit, currently, in a situation of default and that generates important interests of delay to the charge of the Administration of Catalonia, does not only lead us to ask about whether its exit is to negotiate a payment to long term, but also, what is its impact on the proposal that will make assumptions. In this sense, we ask him: is this information certain, Mr. President? And, if that's the case, we ask you to tell us if, apart from this claim won with Bank Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, there are others, of lost, and to list us: what is its volume and its cost.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.65.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.66.0	Yes, very honorable president. Benvolgut deputy, indeed, you reread an information that refers to some of the short-term credits, that are not all, that may have entered – have not entered, some – into default. This, sadly, is the consequence of the three-hour tensions and the liquidity to which we are forced by the situation you know. In any case, the department is working to resolve it, it is a solution that is at the bottom of the hand; and in any case, for what it does to the detail of the credits at short notice that we have and the situation in which they are found, I will provide you with the information in detail, which I do not have at these times here on the table, but in order, in any case, in the second part of the answer, I will be able to extend something more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.67.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.68.0	Thank you, President. Apart from this concrete assumption, that according to the criteria of our Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it has direct effects on the assumption and also on the very serious financial situation of the Generality, in the agreements that give estabilitated to your Government, there is the will to review the contents of the assumptions, and also the analysis of its assessment in the execution of the assumption. Benvolgut president, we ask him what steps the government intends to take to redress the generality's financial situation and whether these include greater participation in admissions by persons with major admissions, via recap. Will they abandon the planning of the generality's finances with the aim of satisfying the breach of the deficit fixed for the Spanish State? Do you see a predisposition of the Spanish government to leave the interests of the deficit to zero? Do you think, Mr President, that the committee or the working group on the analysis of the debt should be taken care of without delay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.69.0	The president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.70.0	Yes, thank you very much. Indeed, I will begin to answer this later: we do think that we do this group of work, among other things, not only because it is a compromise, but because we have the need and because we see the margin. If more than the operations that we need to do because we believe in the short term are going to be in the long term, more than demanding that it be satisfied, for what it does to the money that we have to resort to through the FLA the interests, is to say, the absence of interests to speak clearly, in what is the price of the money, or, in any case, to what the Spanish Government has obtained, that this..., given by no means that it is one of the priorities of the Government. At the same time, we must continue to demand that, in order to be able to provide us with assumptions that face the expectations of the social welfare plan, that you know well, that face the emergencies that we have detected as the country and that can enable us to push those strategic policies in the sphere of the welfare society that we have identified, we will - we will - not only improve our ability to recover the tickets that are suitable, but, above all, that the State does not speculate, does not play with what they are Catalan money, that they are already ours, that they are in the general assumptions of the State, that they are excessive or diminished of beasts of years that go well, and that, even in this sense, they are our own, that they are in the general assumptions of the State, that they are excessive or diminished of beasts of years that they are going to be very well, and that they are still ours, that they are in this sense, that they are our own power. In this sense, this secret of amounts of money that are already Catalan by the Spanish Government is unacceptable. We will continue to demand and have reasonable expectations that we can have in order to be able to respond to the demands and policies that this Government has marked as priorities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.71.0	Eleventh question, on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about his position in relation to the creation of joint positions for the drafting of proposals for the comprehensive law of Catalan social protection, of the Catalan legal system and of the Catalan tax administration]] [[317-00017/11]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier García Albiol, from Grupo Parlamentari Popular.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.72.0	Mr President, in the past few days we have known that the legal services of this Parliament have spoken, and they have made it very clear, with regard to the creation of joint sentences on the three breaking laws, or rather, better, of the wrong named "break", and they have made it very clear that this process, that joint sentences do not conform to the law. Yesterday at the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament we saw how the political groups of which you are a party, of Juntes per el Sí and of the CUP, decided not to listen to the reports of the legal services, for the first time not to listen to the reports of the legal services and to pull for the path of the right: decide to create, against the will of the majority of the parliamentary groups, this joint pose. My question, Mr President, is very concrete: what position does the President of the Generality have regarding the creation of this joint position?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.73.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.74.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. As you can imagine, I am also a Member of Junts for the Yes and, therefore, I am not only in solidarity with the decisions made by my parliamentary group, but also part of these decisions. So, this is a government control session. If you want to have a control session at the Bureau of Parliament, I think you have better opportunities than these to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.75.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.76.0	Mr Puigdemont, I did not ask the Bureau of Parliament or the Member of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group. I told him in a very clear way that we asked the President of the Generality the question and that we wanted a position with regard to the creation of this joint position of the President of the Generality; of the rest, we are neither interested nor concerned. I see your answer, I believe, Mr Puigdemont, that it is obvious that your way of governing, that of your government, is a difficult irresponsibility. Not so alone in these moments are you according to disobeying the names, which you call "Spanish laws, but for the first time – for the first time – this Parliament of Catalonia..., the independence majority decides to disobey the same reports of the judicial services of this chamber. This is an attitude that I must tell you with all sincerity that from the Group of the People's Party of Catalonia we believe that what we are looking for is direct confrontation with the Government of Spain. You necessarily seem to be seeking that on the part of the Government of Spain is taking steps to try to justify you don't know what. What you are doing and the measure and the proposal you made yesterday, I think they are the clearest evidence – and I will say this in a very simple way – of their way of governing, that it is not only enough not to throw forward projects that demand the majority of Catalan society, but to deceive the vast majority of Catalans, including the same independenceists, who believe that you have a project and that you are dedicated to it is to marish the loss and create conflicts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.77.0	Time's up, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.78.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.79.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.80.0	Yes, you see, about what interests or does not interest the citizens, I want to remind you that this Government, in the few weeks it already carries in operation, has already approved three laws, three bills that have given it work, in this sense, to the Parliament of Catalonia. According to the question: the government does not make decisions – and in the model of society to which we are going and in the model of country to which we are going to continue to feel like this – that affect legislative power. We are clear about the separation of powers: from the executed power, the legislature and the judiciary. I don't know if it's exactly the same difference you have and the same respect for this separation you have; in some cases, I don't think so. But in any case, the execution that I preside over is not barbarous with the edges of the legislative chamber and does not – and does not – take decisions like the government that affect parliamentary life, because they are close to you, this; they are close to you, like them or not like them. Because you can tell the Government of Catalonia what it is that is not subject to its government program approved for this Parliament, not other questions. But to you, like parliamentary groups, the close ones explain to the citizen whether they think or not to participate in parliamentary life; of the parliamentary life which, moreover, is gathered for a very clear majority in the Parliament of Catalonia and for a large part of the people of Catalonia. And if you deny the right to Parliament to debate, if you seek the way, through subterfuges, through some type of travets that do not belong, to obstruct what is normal life in any democratic society, which is that its Parliament debates and can counter ideas, the response to disobedience will have to do you. I do not ask the government, that what it does..., is usually obsessively devoted to obeying; to obeying, as close as possible, this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.81.0	Dotzena question, about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the defense of an alternative government of the left which is compromised in a referendum on independence]] [[317-00015/11]] The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.82.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. President, yesterday, as everyone knows, in Madrid, the investiture debate began, and Mr. Pedro Sánchez was applying to preside over the Spanish government on the basis of a pact, a pact between the Socialist Party and Ciutadans; a pact that, as you said – and, without being used as a precedent, we agree – can end the Catalonia-Spain conflict, but a pact that also certifies a certain social regression model that has been installed in these years of government of the PP and that has counted, as well as saying, at critical or decisive times, with the support of Convergence; a pact that does not derogate from labor reform, that does not derogate from the law of mordasse, that does not question the current energy model or the stability of the economy. We don't know if this agreement will allow the investiture of Mr. Sánchez, but it might as well flatten the path to a great coalition, which seems to be the preferred option of IBEX 35 and Brussels, huh? Very honorable, it is well known on these days the bargain that has been developing our companions and companions at the Congress of Deputies in favor of an alternative, of a government of left-wing compromises in a consultation in Catalonia. And during these weeks we found that the fierce warrior of those soldiers, which Mr. Homs said, who sailed to the Congress of Deputies to battle, was missing. Our question is the following: will you follow your profile or plan to adopt – I speak of the Government, I speak of the Presidency, I speak of the representatives of this majority in Madrid – a more proactive attitude in the configuration of the new Spanish Government? Is it to say, whether it is intended to disconnect as if it were not, do you think that it is indifferent to which alternative of government ending up imposing itself in Madrid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.83.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, we are following, as far as we can – because in these hours, as you can imagine, we cannot be connected to the direct investment debate, but we will follow it in some way or another – which is happening at the Congress of Deputies in the investiture of Mr. Sánchez. We are concerned, indeed, not only with literality, but with the experience of the pact that we have known so far. For what it seems, there are different versions of the pact, depending on what the receiver is. But in any case, put everything together, the package of pacts offered by the current and only candidate for the inauguration and unlikely president of the Spanish Government, to us does not satisfy us, not only on what you have to see with Catalonia, but also because there are some general policy questions that worry us enormously. That said, I don't think it has to be excused that sometimes it coincides with us or with me in particular. I very much like to agree with everyone, and particularly with their group on these issues. You must have seen already – you must have seen already – that we have been sufficiently explicit in this, and I, in particular, and not only yesterday or today, that an article comes out to the international press that directly addresses this issue, but with interviews, with positions that we have shared with all the people – in this case allows you to'more than talk about Democracy and Freedom – that we have in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.85.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.86.0	Thank you very much, President. No, let us hope that, indeed, the coincidences are more numerous and, for example, we can agree on a joint effort to repeal labour reform, among other issues. It would be a change of position that would be interesting and open to us. Let us say, in general, that we have seen with satisfaction that lately, or these last days, the representatives of the forces that support the Government, in Madrid, therefore, are in favour of the referendum. Welcome to the club, huh? I remember a few months ago defending the reference as a way to unravel this conflict deserved some epithets. Well, I think everyone rewinded; a lot of pants have jumped. Let us hope that one day, some, for example the socialist friends, will jump back on some pants and find us a large majority of political forces defending a democratic consultation in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.87.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.88.0	Yes; thank you very much. Mr. Rabell, you'll find us all the time, willingly dialing. We have said that, and it's tradition, it's tradition to say that Catalanism, in all its expressions, that when someone has something to say we always sit down and listen, and if we can find points of contact or points of agreement, always – always – we do. Therefore, if there is any Spanish government that proposes a reference because Catalonia can decide whether or not it wants to become an independent state, we have already advanced that we always negotiate the terms of this reference. And that happens only for the time being, because it only defends the group, let's say, of Podemos, of the forces of the Spanish state joint, and, therefore, is clearly insufficient. That said, I also believe that we can demand clearly, as long as we can demand that when there is an offer we ensure that we negotiate it, I believe that we are on condition that we can also demand..., to ask everyone to propose it to us and to pour it into this land what will happen if this option is not viable, nor is it feasible, nor is it possible to do so, as, indeed, today is also being clarified. I think we have the right to set it up, and here I am grateful to you, to whom you represent, for a reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.89.0	Tretzena question, about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the visit of the President of Aragó to Catalonia in relation to the efforts of cooperation, territorial and economic cooperation, cultural dialogue and the pact]] [[317-00016/11]] The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.90.0	Thank you, President. And, as I see today's attention, inevitably, it's out of here, I take advantage of it to say that I hope that the left hand and the right hand always don't vote together to prevent a switch and a dial scene. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] But it is obvious – it is obvious – that this is not what I wanted to ask the very honorable President of the Generality, to whom I want to ask his appreciation of the visit made by the President of the Government of Aragó to Catalonia a few days ago.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.91.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.92.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. And I am convinced that there will be no surprise in the ballots in Madrid between left and right, that, in any case, it goes further than what the right and left of this Parliament have sometimes voted in the investiture of Presidents of the Generality. That said, the appreciation I make of the visit of the president of Aragó, I must say that it is very positive, and in this sense I want to convey publicly the thanks for the courtesy..., not just the courtesy, but the content of the find.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.93.0	There's a word from Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.94.0	President, and in the absence of giving us perhaps some detail, it is obvious that our group agrees with a positive appreciation of this visit. We would like to point out that this was the visit of a friend who completed his commitment to repeal the infamous LAPAO name; a person who wants to help improve the relationship between Aragó and Catalonia, and also the relationship between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. We especially want to appreciate the efforts of cultural cooperation, the dialogue on the religious art of the Strip – and in this sense I want to congratulate the Councillor of Culture – and also the collaboration between the port of Barcelona and the dry port of Saragossa. President, the later autonomous elections promoted changes to the Aragó, the Illes, also to the Valencia Country and other autonomous communities; changes that operate dialect scenes; changes that, for example, led to today's celebration of the reinstatement of the Illes to the Ramon Llull Institute. We can also celebrate that the decree that uprooted the català in the Illes school was repealed; we can celebrate that the català is once again a request for access to public office in the Illes; we can celebrate that the Law of Symbols has been repealed, which prohibits, among other things, the senate. We can also celebrate that in Valencia we have a government willing to work together with us to ensure the Mediterranean Corridor and to ensure a financing that is not only solidarity, but also equity with communities rather than more solidarity efforts. And it is for all this, Mr President, that I allow myself..., I already understand that your goal is not to change to a different Spain, and I can respect it, but I would like to encourage you to continue exploring all the ways of dialogue, negotiation, pact and collaboration with the German people, which can help us, precisely, to improve our living conditions, to solve the problems of Catalans and, possibly, also, to achieve a different Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.95.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.96.0	Thank you very much. The appreciation of the meeting with the President of Aragó was possible because of what you described. First, for his willingness to resume a dialog that is essential, and that is necessary, and that must be done without conditions. And, in this sense, I was pleased with his initiative and the content of the finding, which has to do with the cultural dialogue, of which Councillor Vila has already made a point, on time, for a conflict that we need to draw, because the only way to resolve it is to deal with it and manage it through the agreement and the dialogue – and here we will always find it. And I think we have one person in the other gang, and we also have the counselor – with whom, a few days after the interview with the president, she met with Councilman Vila –, we have people, too, from the same country. And, therefore, I do not foresee great difficulties. I thanked him for the linguistic compromise, which I know is not easy and that I know that it can carry some political cost, as he has already announced – some kind of demonstration, some type of aggressive action – and therefore I value it twice, because it is in itself and because it has been able to overlap, I believe that with courage, to which it was a..., to which it is, going, a pressure that we cannot accept from the very beginning on which, in fact, it is a linguistic reality of more than one hundred and a thousand people. So it's a reality that I want to thank him for. And, obviously, that's why he took him to Barcelona, and that's very strong connection to the port of Barcelona. For us it is very interesting that the Zaragoza-Barcelona axis works very well, that Zaragoza sees its terminal at the port of Barcelona, its door of expansion and entry and competitiveness, and in this sense we will find ourselves, sure. If at the end of this – and we have already done something about this – we can apply the..., you talk about the German people, I would say the Catalan Countries, the Catalan speaking countries, in the defense of common interests that go in the right direction and that in the end they have concrete results for the citizen and for the problems of his day to day, we will do so. And, in fact, we've already started making the first passes, and I'm convinced that we'll find, on the sidelines of respectable state projects, points of finding ways to improve the lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.97.0	Fourteenth question, on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the benefit to Catalans of the main actions of the Government, the name change of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency and the Institute of Autonomous Studies]] [[317-00013/11]] The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm glad to know that it's also interesting what's going on at the Congress of Deputies. And, while other fans of commentators, it should be remembered that Ciutadans, which is a party that with great pride was born in Barcelona, today is an alternative at the level of all Spain, and that today, from the dialog, is planting reforms and changes that are good for Catalans and for the conjunct of Spaniards. But, speaking of the Government of the Generality, what we have learned is that the main actions of the Government of these days are a game of words; a game of words because they have focused on changing the name: to change the name of the Department of External Affairs, which has only changed the order of the name of the department, or to change the name of the Institute of Autonomous Studies to make a self-governing study institute that is a new office for independence, as if we had no public bodies..., or if with its depatx not in the right place, in Catalonia..., for an office for independence. The question is very clear, Mr President: how does Catalans benefit from this?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.99.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, a previa, who I think deserves it: I congratulate you on the results and the management of some electoral results, which were not very good, in your parliamentary group in Madrid, but which today allow them to appear before the Spanish public opinion as a force that is, effectively and rationally, in conditions of agreement with some force that you make govern. So this is a merit I don't want to discuss. Another thing is the results. And another thing is the content of the agreement. And another thing will be the vote that will be held this evening and the vote that will be held at night, which will be a whole other story. But in any case, you have played well; I believe that the Socialist Party has also played well its options, or few options that it had, and today the two political forces that the election weekend could have more, let's say, toilets to be done, today appear as the only ones capable of articulating a proposal, a proposal for state governance. That said, with regard to the specific question that you were asking me, look, we have no other objective than to complete the Plan of Government that we have approved in the Parliament of Catalonia, we have no other objective than this. And this is the most direct way to serve our citizens, which is what all the governments of the world do when they present a plan of government to all the parliaments of the world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.101.0	It has the word the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.102.0	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, a previous one: since you have given up trying to negotiate a better system of financing or trying to negotiate reforms that benefit Catalans, leave us, with Catalan origin but with forty Members, with 3_million_and_average of votes throughout Spain, that we try, and so we are doing, from dialogue, from transversality and from realism. But, going back to the question, I am already answering what benefits Catalans, what you are doing: absolutely nothing. And the worst thing is that you are deceiving all Catalans: the social majority that we are not independenceists, because we see every day how you focus on trying to declare independence by leaving aside the rest of the priorities. But even for all the people who legitimately trust independence, this is also a deception, because you are telling them that the Constitutional Court is not competent in Catalonia, but you are running to make allegations; you are telling them to pass Olympicly from the Constitutional Court, but Mr Romeva goes out to make a statement saying no, that no, that no, that they will focus on external action. This has been criticized, even, by its partners, if they can be called that way, of the CUP. Therefore, you are deceiving all Catalans, because, no matter how much you change your words, you have no competence in foreign policy; no matter how much you play the mouse and the cat, you will not be able to pass over justice, and no matter how much you have tried, you do not have a social majority. Today you recognized him, the other day you recognized Mr. Mal..., More, sorry. [[Widow's remorse.]] They're talking about... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I'm sorry... - I'm sorry. They speak of a majority, they speak of a parliamentary majority, but when they speak of society they speak of a large part of Catalan society. Therefore, do not make us waste any more time, nor those who legitimately want independence, nor those who legitimately do not want it. Talk about corruption, that you, of this, do not talk about; talk about health, education, families, young people who continue to flee Catalonia because they do not have opportunities. If they do this, they will have the opposition by their side; if they do this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.103.0	Mrs. Rimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.104.0	...they won't have a problem with justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.105.0	...time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.106.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.107.0	The president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.108.0	Thank you very much. An acclaim, because you..., you do play with words, and maybe something we should learn, because you continue to give a definition that is false; say: "You will give up negotiating a new financing system. I have not said this; I have said: "Let us give up leading – to lead – the petition for a review of the financing system. And I think the political reasons for which we have to hope that others who are leading are perfectly explained in this very Parliament. We're going to run out of stuff until we get back to the point, as I said at the investiture speech, all the options that tie us to the statutory competitions. And, therefore, here there is no doubt that we will not give up any of the defenses to what we have right of the interests of the citizens. Let's just tell him that I'm commingling the patience you have for independent voters for what this government can do, I commingling. And I didn't, which we would apply as a mantra, not to disappoint the independent voters of Junts for the Yes and the CUP, huh? applying the full route, and we'll do it even more enthusiastically, even though it's to please you and take away this patience and this anguish. And, finally, look, do you know what it's like to measure the jobs you're a fan of according to the citizenry? With the dice. The dice are out of the sky today. I recommend that you look at them, compare them to the data of the day in Spain, because in Catalonia we have reduced by 7,800 people, a point and a half per cent less, while in the Spanish State it has risen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.109.0	Fifteenth question, about the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the content of the agreement that is being debated at the investiture session at the Congress of Deputies]] [[317-00018/11]] The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.110.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honorable president, serving PSOE vocabulary, we would also like to mention, even minimally, the investiture debate that has taken place at the Congress of Deputies. And it says at least because despite the fact that most Spanish parties say that the great problem in the Spanish State is Catalonia, its references and its proposals respect Catalonia are minimal. And from these, even if they're small, some of them are very worrying, because they're in that line of continuing to try to turn off the fire with gasoline. It's true that there's that saying that when the opponent doesn't mislead him, but, no matter what, we can't be denouncing him, just to carry more reason. And we already saw it in the investiture debate in this chamber: just as here there is Juntes for the Yes, in Madrid it was consolidating, and it was seen, therefore, the «juntes for the no, for the not all that is a political clam in that country, as for example that the Catalans can freely decide our future policy, vote to decide and decide to progress. But it's also a bit of a no for many things that we think and still feel much more about people in this country, such as language, such as linguistic immersion. It is not that we have great expectations, of what is happening in Madrid; we are not semiatruities, and therefore the expectations of what is produced there were not at all, but this does not mean that we let go of everything that has happened there. It's also true that we're not hanging out from what's going on there and we're standing here, but we, since November 9th, are going to start taking off. And if there's nothing again, they'll warn us and we'll appreciate it. But as long as we think we have to go away. And that's what we're doing. Yes, it is true that what is going on in Madrid should be a reflection, because if we see anything... it will not be a president, but we will attend the funeral, the needs of the third way. And I think that this should make a lot of people reflect because all of a sudden they are part of this political, historical, transcendent, and so positive project for the city of Catalonia. And that's why we, president, so we want to ask him what is the value that his government makes, and you yourself, respect the content of what is being debated at the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.111.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.112.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - It is clear that the investiture debate will not end with the election of a president. So the first thing I have to do is regret that there are so many resources and so many efforts and so much attention to a predictable outcome, that one more week, like at least, and probably some more, in the Spanish State there will be a great political instability. And that has consequences for people, for the economy, for businesses. And while we have a government here that has its approved program and that goes forward, unfortunately, on the other side, there is no one to ask who we are going to ask questions, because when they are a little complex, the answer we find is that "we are working, and some things we can't talk to them anymore. Therefore, we urgently need that Spanish politics is put down the piles, that do the deures, that everyone is waiting for – not only here, but also in the joint venture of Europe –, and that there may be an interlocutor. Sadly, I don't think he's going to be, say, a person like that at this point in time setting up the investment debate, because he doesn't have the supports. And, moreover, if it were, it would be collected in a program that would be a government program, as I said earlier in the answer to Mr.Rabell, which is worrying. It is disappointing; it is disappointing because, let's say, it has inconcrete and inconcrete in which are the proposals of this chamber and which are the aspirations of a good part of the people of Catalonia, and it is disappointing because of what is concrete and excessive in denying, precisely, what this Parliament wants. Therefore, he is plotting a path, for which he does in Catalonia, an imaginary path, hardly recursible, and less from an investiture of an imaginary presidency. I'm sure he won't rule, but if he does, I'm sure he won't. There is some bond, that there is this certification of the requirements of the third way, and it is no longer possible to call it deception; if there was any hope that there would be a space for concertation of a proposal in which we could feel how to work, the hopes that might remain have been emptied, and they would be emptied. I do not say this with joy, but it simply allows us to say that the path for the people who went to vote on 27 September is the path that generates consensus in the country; it is the path that allows us to pull a full path with clear objectives and horizons. And while, as we have said more than once, we go by, we go shooting, and, if anyone has anything to say to us – that it is not now, nor do I see that it will be today – it will already let us know.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.113.0	After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, to item 2, which is the totality debate on the proposed law amending the first additional provision of Law 10/2011, of 29 December, simplifying and improving regulatory regulation. [[Proposal for a law amending the first additional provision of Law 10/2011 of 29 December 2011 on simplification and improvement of regulatory regulation (debate of totality)]] [[202-00001/11]] In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is presented by Mr Jordi Terrades. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.114.0	Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, on July 23, 2015 we announced to them – we had not yet celebrated the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia and we did not know what the composition of the chamber would be – that the Socialist Parliamentary Group would resubmit this bill. And we present it again because everything that involved the privatisation process of the management of Aigues Ter Llobregat and that the government in function of Convergence and Union forced a 28th of September of the year 2012– the date was already pre-emptive– and a 2nd of generation of 2013– is to say, on the next business day – the administrative control organ of the same Generality of Catalonia already annulled. So, all this process, for which we've known, has been a misrepresentation. In all his legal and administrative appeals which he has had in this tendering procedure, not once – not once – nor once – he has been given reason to the foundations of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Nor when the Supreme Court examined the precautionary measures that the same Government had requested, in which it alleged that the possible compensation could have an exorbitant cost, did the Supreme literally say that this is not true, because, as we are analysing the award phase, there was no firm award. The government said: "The costs will be unbearable. I the Supreme Court replied: "No one because ultimately as it is a decision of origin will have to compensate only the cost of the project and the expenses produced until the time of the reversal. But on June 22nd of the late year, of the year 2015, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia did enter the source of the award that the Government so much claimed. Three judgments – three – have stated that the whole award procedure of the Aigues Ter Llobregat concession was declared null and void for the infringement of the principles of advertising and competition, and that, therefore, the cancellation was not only to Action; it was to the whole process – to the whole process –, to the whole conjunction of the award procedure. There's no doubt from our point of view. The courts say that there has been a serious breach of public procurement laws that violates a central principle, not only of Spanish law, but also of European law, and that the Administration has done so in the form of, "alternatively," lieosa, says the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, with tramitacions, such as, for example, making clausules that are not adopted for the corresponding organ and, moreover, with contradictory contents. And in this legal and administrative appeal three weeks ago we find ourselves, above all, with a report from the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia which also considers that the contract could be terminated by default on the part of the contract award board, and on which, moreover, it is stated that the Catalan Agency of Water did not carry out its control work. We have always said, since the first day, that the privatisation of the management of Aigües Ter Llobregat responded to the fact to use the water supply service at high only as a source of public financing to cover general expenses of the Government of the Generality. In fact, the omnibus law in which it was approved the dissolution of the us, which had been created so as to supply the metropolitan region of Barcelona, did not impose privatization. The law doesn't foresee it, it's a possibility; in no case is it an obligation. In the end, the government failed to complete its own law that required the allocation of the possible resources obtained; it forced them to be allocated to the entire water cycle, which had not been done. In any case, this debate also led to the ACA's debt, huh? This has been the great issue that has been raised in the debates: in committee, in plenary, in questions, in questions that have been made. I just want to remind you, to members who support the government, that about 60 percent of this debt came from the governments of Convergence and Union of President Pujol. And don't tell this congressman: reread the reports of the Catalonian Union of Accounts. The other big debate was: Was Aigues Ter Llobregat 2012 viable? From the Socialist Group's point of view, the answer is yes. It had some actions that covered sobriety..., some actions, on top of the steps, that covered sobriety of its operation; at the very least, its very structure of the step allowed this public enterprise to be drawn forward. The debt structure of the same Aigues Ter Llobregat was a long-term structure; in concrete terms, the 72_per_cent of its debt was long-term; only a 15_per_cent was short-term. The government had only to approve the economic plan to finance that it had on the table, rethinking its tariff policy for such a way as to meet its financial obligations, and, for another band, to seek balance in the costs of exploitation. All the planned and subsequent studies indicate that with an increase of between 50-55_percent of the tariff would have allowed not only the economic viability of Aigues Ter Llobregat, but also generate benefits to invest them in the water cycle or in what the Government has considered appropriate. And the Government of Convergence and Union what does it do? The Government of Convergence and Union what it does before privatizing is increase, not a 50 or a 55_per_cent, a 70_per_cent fare for such a thing? So, to guarantee more benefits to the future dealership. And now we know that the dealership is not fulfilling its commitments: it is not making the investments to guarantee the real needs of the supply system; nor is it just completing the calendar that she herself had predicted, and that... because the forecast of this calendar made it win this contest. I said the Anti-Fraud Office's report, and the Mas-Colell advisor said it before the previous legislature ended. Neither is the good water supply functionality being ensured, for a criterion of maximising the operating margin in favour of the concessionaire pulling in excess of what are the water treatment stations of the Ter and Llobregat, at the time of the water production. I'm telling you this: with the full use, the returns to the Third that this room we've approved, for the vast majority, I think that by all means present, they're full-fledged paper – they're full-fledged paper. The high water supply service and, above all, the network that we are analysing, from the Ter and Llobregat supply, from our point of view, constitutes a service of interest and competence of the Generality and responds to a primordial public interest. We believe that the management of large infrastructures, the management of the shells, the sub-administration to the municipal offices, must be not only the regulation; the management must be..., our position must be public. It is an absolutely strategic area. And it's strategic why? Because, besides, all the studies, the studies around the climate change in Catalonia – we're waiting for the third report on the climate change, some progress we've already had – they tell us that Catalonia will suffer a more irregular water regime, a climate that is warmer, and, therefore, many more possibilities than we currently have. In fact, all the indicators warn us that by the year 2050 Catalonia will have between an 8 and a 10_per_cent less water resources; more reason because before this scene we consider water as a strategic resource. Moreover, if we go over the Water Framework Directive, which we also invoke many times, its Article 11 advocates that full management is managed by public administrations. In fact, if we look at what is happening in Europe, and we look at states where we have a very similar structure to that of the Spanish State, surely, with a much clearer federal rule, as is Germany, we see that in the German lands this competence is a competence that is managed directly. And if we look at what's going on in the United States – I said it, too, on July 23 – in the United States, which is the country where the market system is the system par excellence, we also see that the states reserve the powers over water management at high. We have always considered that this externalisation was unnecessary. I can hear the view on the part of the Government and, finally, of other parliamentary groups respecting this issue – that with less public sector, better –; now, the one that is to be demanded of the Government, because it is managing our economic resources, and, above all, the one that is self-defined as the Government of the best, the one that is to be demanded is that the procedures do not remain irregular, that the procedures are not wrong and that the procedures are not mismanaged. I was speaking to Councilman Rull fifteen days ago: there are things that are hard to hear. Some: why did he force the machine – not he, he was not a counselor – why did he force the machine on 28th December 2011? If he hadn't done it, if he had expected the control body to have issued his report, we would have been relieved, all folds, these curses. And they did everything to lower accounting – to lower accounting, huh? – the deficit facing the State and the European Union. Why on the sidelines of the contracting agency are there interpretations that later lead to nullity of the whole process? Why did the person, exgerant of the ACA, who all indicates that he was the one who built the concession's financial operation, not regularly attend the new concession board to control all these aspects? The Anti-Fraud Office told us. We don't know today, either, exactly who the dealers are. Why does an exgerent of Agües Ter Llobregat end up advising us – we don't know about the writing of the shares – of the offer or part of the offer to the winning company? Why has the dealership re-invoked the Government of the Generalitat more than EUR 13_million, the year 2015, which will have an impact on the rate of the year 2017 and which had been unduly invoiced in the year 2013 and the year 2014? In presenting this bill, except for the later arguments of the Anti-Fraud Office, which we do not know, we have examined all administrative and judicial decisions. And we believe that the Government of the Government of Catalonia, with the last sentence of the High Court of Justice, has a perfect anchor to return to the origin of this process. Because the Court of Justice of Catalonia, once again, has declared null and void the whole tendering procedure; and, moreover, it excludes the two undertakings in dispute. One thing, too, I have to say, right? I think... - I got the impression, huh? – that the government has the same feeling that I have and are not aware: if there is no award, there is no title; if there is no title, there is no contract. And that's a theme that we're gonna follow, and I'm telling you, with a lot of attention, huh? If there is no title, there is no award and there is no contract. Look, to finish this presentation of this bill's proposal, that I already tell you that it is not circumstantial because we made a solemn announcement when we presented it in the last plenary of the previous legislature and that it was defeated with different arguments, with different preambles, because we do not know the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which we have now incorporated, and therefore I repeat, it is not a circumstantial issue of today. I wanted to say to them, in order to finish this first round, that the Government of Convergence and Union put us in a good embolism in 2012 which, moreover, has handled it badly, and that, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we want the Government of Juntes for the Yes not to follow the same passes. You know that if today's proposal goes beyond totality, there's a way to talk, there's a way to find the best solution. I ask you, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to ask all the parliamentary groups, as well as those of the Government, to allow the debate, to allow the constitution of the parliamentary delegation as a more element than we should bring not only to resolve this conflict, but to bring us to a national water pact in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.115.0	I must say that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party withdrew its mandate yesterday in totality. So, for the defense of the totality emena presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.116.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, Mr Terrades, we share a part of your argumentary and, therefore, let's say, you know that we have found ourselves on other occasions; at these times, the one who speaks to you is in different circumstances regarding the parliamentary group, but we maintain our position with respect to what we think. We defended it, we said it, and we kept it. And it seems to me that, with the layout you're making, you're sweeping concepts. The fact that we are now bringing this proposal of law to this parliamentary chamber, the only thing that it does is to introduce, in our view, an element more of confusion. You have made a certain account of the history of the whole construction and of the state of the situation of the company Aigues Ter Llobregat in the process of the laws, in which you also gave, also, support in some of its fields, which enabled the concession, later on, that was hard to finish. You're obvious, huh? , which we share with you also that something has not just been done well, in a context, let us say, of maximum justice. Judicialization, for another band, in the context of water concessions, which is not alien in other administrations of which you also participate, which indicates that, surely, it is not just a matter of concessions, but that it is a matter that manages water, in itself, entails a high interest on the part of many companies, which also causes another judicialization, after all, of these concessions. It's true that he could have acted more diligently. We, from the Republican Left, in its moment, have been complaining, but we also understood that the key was to give tranquillity, to give serenity to this element and, therefore, to tell ourselves, to arrive at a moment, that it was to wait for the Supreme Court's sentences. To wait, to complete the resolution of all the problems exist in the judicial sphere, and from here to make the determinations in function, let us say, of the judicial judgments. We cannot escape, either, in what context and at what point that concession was made: in a moment, in an economic context of the country, in an economic context of an economic one, of a very important financial crisis where, as you pointed out, the Government tried to generate resources through this concession. Therefore, the model that'sapplies, the situation is obliged in many cases. In short, you pointed out some of the other questions, as well as the subject of the Anti-Fraud Office's report. From our point of view, the government has been diligent in this action. The government acted in advance on the report of the Anti-Fraud Office and, therefore, from here, some of the questions that were, that the company, in fact, had had to finish, were pulled back because they did not count on the mandatory authorization on the part of the government. In any case, you claim in your intervention that these, let's say, financial maneuvers have an impact on the tariff, which, for which we have been able to express ourselves, is not so and, therefore, let's say, from this point of view, it seems that there is no such impact, or that there is no such impact on the tariff, and therefore from our point of view, the action, which was being sought, is more, and, in any case, what we achieved last week, or fifteen days ago, through the approval of a young person, from a point of the motion of the UPC, was to open a new path in which it was a question or, in any case, allow us to question all the operation of this concession, in the case that there is an irregularity of the administration. Therefore, for us, there are various lives to act. In these moments, and in the hope of the report, in any case, open about fifteen days ago, what we have to expect is the resolution of this information sender, which in any case will tell us what is the degree of failure on the part of the concessionaire on these facts. In the event that there are incompliments due to the end and due to the resolution of the concession, from this point of view, it seems to us that it is the one that surrounds and, therefore, we would expect this way. The government is acting with diligence. Since it cannot be otherwise in a guarantee procedure, what has been opened is a term because the company can present the corresponding annexes and that, therefore, as in any legal system, the persons to whom a dispatcher opens, there is a right to the contradiction and, therefore, will expect to be re-elected and, from here, the resolution will be issued. It seems to us that you are pulling a lot forward, taking into account the whole issue of ATLL, but that, in any case, you too, when you have been able to manage, and you are demonstrating it in other administrations, have not had any problem in using the concessions, let's say, the majority – and we can talk about it in some concrete company – where the public majority is in a minority with respect to the private part of the concession. Therefore, from this point of view, it seems to us that, in any case, you, in one paper, in one place use one speech and in another use the other. I insist, from Junts for the Yes we understand that this proposal is inappropriate because it is, I insist, a confusion; it generates, it can generate more confusion. We have a few terms, we have some donor situations. We are waiting, I insist, for the resolution of the information expedient that the Government has opened, that it has opened the department respect the concessionaire, and then, in any case, the other way we have is waiting for the Supreme Court's judgment. Miri, I'm strange, and because, in any case, you, in your first intervention, have just given us the reason for our positioning. From our point of view, it is best to wait for the feeling because, as you pointed out and pointed out the Supreme, in case the concession is invalidated, there is no right to compensation. In the proposal you are submitting to us, it does require or does generate a right of compensation for the concessionary enterprise. It is obvious that when there is a concession and it is cancelled through any legislative procedure it generates a right to compensation. Mr. Terrades, that's it - that's it. What you are proposing is a position that I am sure we could describe as a ‘chavista' measure, if I may be able to express myself. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's it. You propose, from the outset – you propose, from the outset – that it be totally passed, without allowing, let us say, "to hope and without taking into account the economic repercussions of this situation. From our point of view, what we insist on is waiting for this resolution, this feeling and, from here on, making the right decisions. Bearing in mind, I insist, that we approach the debate. We need to deal with a broad debate, we need to deal with a debate that we share with you, but for this, in any case, we understand that you too are making a barrier, let's say, of contingencies of situations, for which you do the National Water Pact. We understand that this country needs to make a fund debate – it needs to make a fund debate – on which are the water infrastructures, the water infrastructures, respecting, above all, and taking into account what are hydrological and minimal, and, therefore, from this point of view, we plant the water management from a conjunction, from an amplitude, from a glance that allows us to make the right decisions at every moment. We understand that this is the way forward and it is in the framework of this national pact where we must strive... – yes, we insist, and we are connected, we have expressed it in the compromise, the agreement between Juntes for the Yes and the CUP – the will is to lead and manage this company from the public point of view. Therefore, it seems to us that this is the way and this is what needs to be done at these times. We debate, too, about a lot of opportunities. It seems to us that the area of debate..., some groups pointed out to us the need that the area of debate on the water system, on the water resource system was in the mark of this law proposal. To us, we don't seem to. Therefore, it seems to us that what it is to open a debate will be, a more peaceful debate, not in the framework of a proposal, not in the framework of a legislative committee, but in the framework of a committee on which all parliamentary groups are involved, which in the form of entities of the sector, which allow us to give a much wider view of the system. In this way, it seems to us that the only one we are doing, through this legislative committee, is to give a very – very, very – limited view of what this debate supposes. Therefore, I insist, we shall maintain, we shall keep the emena to the totality, and therefore from this point of view, we shall stand the position because it seems to us that, even if we are to debate, this is not the mark in which this debate is to be given. Let us think, moreover, of the economic consequences, because they have been valued, of bringing forward this proposal of law. As you put it, Mr Terrades, the economic impact is 1,200_million euros; 1,200_million euros with which heat, huh? , indemnifying, bearing in mind, I insist, that this is a unilateral termination of the concession contract, I insist that it would be advisable to reverse the actions that have already been put down, the investments that have been made, plus the right of compensation that correspond to the concession. Miri, with these 1,200_million euros, this..., means – and I will set an example title, that I can see the magnitude of the tragedy in this sense – that Aigues Ter Llobregat would be the fourth government department, to set an example, or that means the assumption of the Interior Department for a whole year. Moreover, this means five times the shoal with which we are trying to obtain resources to attack the fevers that this country has in social matters. Therefore, we insist, sharing the final objective, it seems to us that the approach you are making at this time is denied, this is not the way to act. We have mechanisms planned, we have guaranteed at these times the supply service, so what seems to us is that we must, we insist, the moment that is already the feeling in the Supreme, we think that it will not triage too much to exist this feeling. Therefore, we do not understand the press, we do not understand the complication of introducing a new element of debate that does not clarify the situation, but, in our opinion, we still confuse the situation and generate a terrible confusion between the citizens. Mr Terrades, we, today, oppose the processing of this law, but I also, as you know, insist that in many occasions we always keep the door of the dialog open, as you offered us, we also offer it, from Juntes per el Si, the possibility to speak at any time of this topic and of any other topic that concerns your group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.117.0	Then, to the contrary, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.118.0	Mr. Deputy, you are taking over the Supreme so as not to address this debate. You know perfectly well, and all the Members of Parliament and all the Members of the Chamber know that if today the message to the totality is defeated – and, therefore, the processing continues to take place – what we will not be doing today is an act of immediate return, to the public sector, of Aigues Ter Llobregat. Let's start the parliamentary path. If you allow me to compare, we'll be creating a joint pose, which pleases you so much, right? [[relays]] – I already know that sometimes they like the study committees better –; we, to address the issue of water, prefer that there be a legislative question. I recommend it – and if you don't have the opportunity, I'll give you the documents – the history of the positions that the Socialist Party of Catalonia has maintained with respect to the water issue. And from..., – went to say time immemorial; no, not so much, eh? – but for the next thirty years, you will be able to see that the position of the socialists has always been the same. High distribution must be a public management, and for low management, there is one thing that is municipal autonomy, which is enshrined in the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. I suggest that if you want to address this debate and build the position of local authorities, reform the Local Administration Law, and define how this service is done from the law. But what we're discussing is the competitions of the Catalonian Generality, and the competitions of the Catalonian Generality are who they are. And, therefore, we say: "Home, before the Nyap that has occurred, therefore, we try to solve it in the best way. Well, the numbers you told me don't call me, huh? I have a more reliable source, from a point of view, even academically, and from the same management: the councillor Mas-Colell, with whom in the previous legislature had discussed this subject a few times, from his liberal position, and accused us of having an interventionist position... – I will not reproduce the debate. So, well, grabbing the font of the country's former councillor of Hisenda, in his two last interventions, in July, when the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia had already come out, it indicated to us that the magnitude of the return that could be made to the concessionary company was around 286_million euros – then gave another, of 296. Counsellor Rull, I'm going over the acts of Parliament. Our experts also tell us that this can go this way. And if we stick to what the Anti-Fraud Office told us, probably, I wouldn't even have to go here. And he reminded them of that, didn't he? If there's no... if the award is cancelled, there's no title, there's no contract, and maybe the government of the generality should defend its interests better, huh? , respects the industrial benefits that this concessionaire has achieved. But, well, that's a way that I'm just gonna point them out and that it's gonna be their legal services that they're gonna do. Jo, if you were in the government, I'd probably have already commissioned these studies. Listening to Congressman Sanglas, he gave me the feeling that we are in that saying: "The day that passes, the year that I work. And, listen, let's not just talk about it. Congressman Marc Sanglas when... – even though he formally gave support to the government, but he was the main opposition party, in fact, wasn't he? – it's been three years – three years – talking about public management. And today, Congressman, we find ourselves here defending ourselves, as he did in these three years, but now openly, Mr. Mas's Nyap, Mr. Mas-Colell's Nyap, in this award that was produced. We..., and I remind you again, I have said this more than once in this forum, I do not know whether other parliamentary groups are aware or not – I have the feeling that yes, to these lifts already everyone is – that there was a problem in the tariff structure. So much so that the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to Councillor Recoder, offered to accompany him in this course of putting the rates where they are. We even presented the papers on the assumption that the Councillor Mas-Colell presented, and we found ourselves with a copy of Councillor Recoder, which said that the socialists wanted to push the water price. We offer you an agreement that, by accompanying you to put in place the tariff structure that allows you to balance the accounts of Aigues Ter Llobregat, you allow us not to enter into this process of indirect management of the distribution of water to the most important region, by number of inhabitants, of the country, eh? We found ourselves in public, when we accompanied her in good faith, and we found ourselves that – I turn them around to say, huh? , the date –, on the 28th of September of 2012 the Government undertook the line that has taken us where it has taken us. We do not..., respecting the agreement, which we voted for, which was adopted now fifteen days ago in this chamber, of a young man who presented the UPC and who was drafted for the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes, we do not just trust this line that they have opened, to open an expedition that we will see where it will take us. And we tell him why we don't just trust the government's position. Because all the clues, all the information we've learned, that we already have, that even more are black and white poses in the report of the Anti-Fraud Office, lead us to conclude that the Catalan Agency of Water was aware of the irregularities that were being produced. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Counselor, you didn't read the report, but the report says what you say, huh? – say what you say – and what I won't use is the information that comes to you, isn't it? I read the reports, and from the information I do in the case I do, but it still indicates that the Catalan Agency of Water was aware, months before, many months before the government said, that things were not going well. And I say to him, counselor, that the government, the former government, did not respect this issue. The sooner I got the impression that what they did was wait to see if the Anti-Fraud Office report was a report a little bit more than it's been. And they found the reality of the report prepared for the Anti-Fraud Office. That's why we don't believe this way that we've opened up a consignor or we've opened a report that leads to an information consignor, and we'll see what happens. Our way is, I return to repeat, to open, if this proposal of the law pulls forward, the parliamentary pose that, at the pace that we decide all folds, I led us to find the best solution for a process that should not have begun, and, if it began, it should have done better, and not as badly as the government of the names "the best have carried it, and that they have placed this concession, of the most important of the country, at the point that today it is found: absolutely judicialized, absolutely fetal, that they would say in castle, some foxes. So, listen, we, we constitute this parliamentary question, we allow debate and we find among all groups the best solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.119.0	We shall then proceed to the turn of speeches to determine the position of the rest of the parliamentary groups. In the first place, has the word Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.120.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Bureau, Members, Councillors, clearly, we are in the midst of a recurring debate on a subject that we have already discussed at the last plenary session and which we will be discussing again tomorrow, precisely on our own initiative. Because to us, unlike some other group, it does seem essential to put this issue back on the table. And put it now, not when we're at the end of a dead end. In fact, we have put forward initiatives, we have asked for appearances, and we have done so because it is a matter that, far from being clarified, is becoming increasingly murky. That is why we want to talk every time it takes, to know what has happened, what could have been done better, what explanation the latest rock-bottom news have, and, above all, what we can do right now, if there is any decision to make so that this legal burden will harm Catalans as little as possible. Our motion tomorrow tries to ask for explanations on how the procedure itself has developed: on the tendering, on the award, on the resolutions, the judgments, the reports. It is about the tremendous mess we have on top of it, about the situation of uncertainty that we have been faced with. As we shall be talking about this tomorrow, I will try to stick to the debate on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Group today. What arises here – the proposer has already explained it very well – is a legislative amendment to a law. A law, the omnibus law, which allowed, among other things, something that perhaps should never have been allowed: the indirect provision, through private management, of the water supply service at the top of the Ter-Llobregat network – the network from which more than half of the population of Catalonia is supplied. It is a fundamental and strategic supply, of which there is no doubt. We, in fact, are starting from a rather pragmatic position on public-private collaboration: we do not stigmatize it, we do not think it has to be avoided at all costs, but not quite the opposite, nor do we think it serves anything. We believe that it is necessary to analyse in each case whether such public-private collaboration improves the situation we had, whether it results in an improvement in the provision of service in all aspects. In short, if overall, it is a benefit for the citizens. And this was not the case or, at least, that we believe. It was a huge operation that almost only the two companies that did so could attend. And it is difficult with so little competition to obtain advantageous conditions for citizens. Moreover, we are talking about a basic service, a fundamental service; so fundamental that, in the end, the Government of the Generalitat, whatever it puts into any contract, will have to be held responsible for any fault or mistake in the calculation of that successful tenderer, thereby assuming risks that make it even more difficult to see the advantages of this concession. Because in 50 years, a lot of things can happen. In fact, this long period, these fifty years, also means that the incentive to improve customer service is not much because, to the concessionaire, what will be said: "do what is right or, if not, in 2061 we will put another? By 2061, it's a long way to go. In short, few benefits for citizens. But when this measure was adopted it was not done with that mentality, it was not done thinking about the benefit of the citizens. It was just putting on a patch; I'm not the one who says it, it's been said here, it's been said by previous governments. Lluís Recoder said in 2012 that he did not want to do what, that it was a sacrifice, that he did it with pain; he said: "We do it because we have no choice but to do it, because the institution needs the resources that can be obtained. The truth is, it doesn't sound like I thought that was the best thing for citizens. The successors have been saying the same thing; until the other day, Mr.Rull reminded him: "The absolutely dramatic circumstances forced a decision of a radicality like this to be made. And it pains, it pains that the greater privatization of the history of the Generalitat was not motivated by the search for the best service for the citizens. And it was also done in a hurry, because December was coming. And a thing as complex as the privatization of the management of a strategic supply as it is water, if at last it has to be done, it cannot be fast and running; because if it is done fast and running, it happens what happens, what is happening to us now. We, in its day, in the voting of the omnibus law, have already opposed. But the law followed its procedure, it was approved and carried out. And it is true that from the point of view of our group perhaps it would not make much sense to be now questioning the, if everything had gone well. But it is also true that we accumulate resolutions and judgments that tell us that the award went wrong; not one or two: we have a few, already. And also now we have, to complete, a report from the anti-fraud office that tells us that it was not only the award, that also after, during these years, and even knowing that they were observed, as I imagine they should know, there are invoices that have been out of control and that have difficult justification, to put it mildly. With all this uncertainty on the table, with all this, we do believe that it is appropriate to discuss, analyse the risks and even come to rethink the solution that was adopted at the time. ATLL was missold, without a strategic vision of water policy, fast and running, to cover a hole produced by the previous mismanagement of the Generalitat. And decisions like this are coming out face to face with Catalans; this government is coming out expensive, both because of ordinary mismanagement and because of the punctual bumps that are sometimes made when trying to cover the holes they cause. We don't want this to happen anymore. And that is why today, at a time when we are debating the whole, not by passing the law, but by deciding whether or not to proceed to further proceedings, our vote is going to be against the amendment to the whole that the government group has tabled. Then we will be very attentive, when we have all the tools, all the figures, that in the intervention of Junts pel Yes we were already beginning to give some that did not coincide at all with those that we had so far. We will be very careful to ensure that the decision that is taken is the one that really benefits all citizens the most. We want all the information to be put on the table, the risks to be analysed, the responsibilities to be assumed and the decisions to be made, to see if for once those who come back in a new dead end are left behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.121.0	Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.122.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counsel, well, we believe in the principle of opportunity for this proposal of law presented by the PSC. First, for the topicality of the topic – we talked about it last week, we'll talk about it tomorrow in this very Ple – because it's a topic that needs to be solved and every day that passes the feeling that the pilot is bigger and that it will cost us more money to the city is bigger. Miri, the fundamental content of the law is the reversal of ATLL's privatisation and the creation of a us, the creation of a direct management company, in which we are all, in order to be able to manage the water at high; it is to say, in full harmony with what we have defended our group, now and then that the conflict began, with different motions, with different interpellations, in the generation of 2013, in April 2013, in July 2015. And, besides, I'm also saying that if we had then started to fix it, for example in 2013, it would have been easier and we wouldn't have gotten here. Therefore, we, in favour of the text and against the threat to totality. And basically for three questions, to sum it up. A more ideological or substantive issue, which is – not because much has been said..., I think it has to be repeated – about public water management. Water is a public good, for the law, and management has some costs: uptake, transference, potability. These costs..., if it is more privatized, it increases costs, for industrial benefits, and we understand that no company will do it for charity or for the common good. Thus, public water management, moreover, at a time when all of Europe is being privatized; there are brave governments, such as the Berlin Government, which has bought 49,1_percent of the shares and, while it has cost EUR 590_million, has reversed the privatisation. That's exercising sovereignty, that's being brave, that's being a government will rise. Therefore, public water management, because the benefits are passed on to citizens, because there is greater control of investments and because this also facilitates social pricing, facilitates making a few foundations of solidarity. Miri, besides, there was no reason to sell ATLL. Yes, ATLL was having a bad time, had a debt – we would not enter here, Mr. Terrades has already explained it, because: fruit that all the costs of the same were not attributed to the ACA but to ATLL, of the works that were to be done –, had a bad time, but had a plan, the Finance plan, that the same Mr. Carcolé – yes, Mr. Rull, I read all the transcripts since 2012 – said it was a good plan. He had a debt, but he had a long debt, and the actions that ATLL had could compensate for that debt. So there were no reasons, no techniques, no environment, no economics for this privatisation, which you say, but you did grant that the same report from the Ministry of Finance tells you that it is not, that it is a sale of deferred-priced assets. Why? Because at that time you needed liquid. And they did it at the last hour, running, so that they could put that liquid; and, moreover, in the mark of the laws, which is where they are trapped, in the mark of the business friendly government, of a government which is no longer there, because CiU no longer..., a government CiU-PP, in which the parties which now support the government see themselves trapped. According to the question for which it is relevant to make this law proposal. Because, look, I've already said it: the legal nyap. Well, there's a lot of names, huh? , which have gone out these years: « legal nyap, « phenomenal mess..., or I say the Catalan beaver, I like to say « the Catalan beaver», because there are some elements that are repeated [[Someone's applauding.]] – there are some elements that are repeated. Miri, it's signed at the last minute; or, then, the potato heats it there is the Councillor Recoder to the Councillor Vila, just as the Ministers of Industry of the PSOE and the PP, in a hurry and currents, did, which if they had expected the report of the OARCC, therefore, surely we would not have arrived here. Press to square the accounts, to square the entries. We, in April 2013, were already calling for the reversal; and, moreover, the Mas-Colell advisor answered us, if then it is reverse..., there were 285_millions exactly, and we also asked them because if we recovered the..., it could recover, it could temporarily recover, make an interim execution and recover public management. But you were denying it to us one time and another time. In fact, at that time, as early as 2013, we told him: "Listen, we constitute a working group with all the agents involved, so that we can make a public enterprise, assemblies, local administrations, to manage water at high, and we see how we get out of this atzucac. No... obviously, you voted against it. In July of 2015 we ask again. Why? Because in July we learn of the famous letter that the President had sent to Action but which shielded the compensation – for this reason he said of the Catalan "castoret" – he shielded them from the compensation to say: "It is the same, even though it is difficult to apply the court's resolution, we will compensate you, we will apply Article 155 and we will compensate you. Well, it's the famous interpretative resolution of July 5th. Therefore, the question of this legal nyap is that today we have three judgments of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia; one, ratified by the Supreme Court, which annuls the whole concession procedure and, moreover, the declaration of nullity, in violation of the principles of advertising, competition, etc. And, therefore, it's not... it's the whole procedure. And here's what we're saying is that while we're at this courthouse, the service has also been affected, this privatisation has also affected the service. Why? Because the Acciona dealer did not comply with the operating regime, as I explained to her, Counsellor Rull, in the previous inquiry, because she used surface water, she did not serve the water of the desalators, etc. The third element for which we believe we need to process this law: for the OARCC report. For if there was a short time, on February 8, 2016, in a report of the OARCC is denounced a series of contractual irregularities of ATLL Dealership, Acciona Agua, with one, let's say, ghost company... And he said ghost company because this ATLL Operator Company had no workers either in 2013 or 2014, and he never had authority from the Administration to operate. That this company turns out that it was entering invoices between Operatora ATLL and ATLL Dealership, they were entering invoices for a value of 12,1_millions euros: 7,4_millions 2013 and 4,7_millions 2014; which, moreover, are re-invoicing 2015. That's all, huh? With the view of the Deloitte audience, which we might also have to look at, some audits, because the audit team has some results or others. Fact, all this fact, that the same OARCC poses in knowledge of the tax agency. But it is also in the report that we are told that the control mechanisms to be exercised by the Generality have failed; that the concessionaire has incomplete the departure of clauses. And the same report says that all this is justifiable to start the contract resolution. And before that, before this demolishing report, the parties that support the government and the government tell us to open one information expedient, another. Okay, pilot forward and embolism that makes it strong. (Laughter.) But it's now that Mr. Marc Sanglas doesn't make it clear, when we've already got the shipment open and it's settled, what they're going to do – what they're going to do. Because, of course, I doubt that... I don't know, I want to trust that the Anti-Fraud Office has done its job well and, therefore, of the dispatch that you have, it won't be very different, the result. So, okay, they'll have the shipment, the outcome, and what are they going to do then? Will they complete the sentence? They'll withdraw the cassation appeal and complete the sentence and cancel...? Because this is the key to the question. Therefore, I say to them: look, we give an opportunity, that this law prospers; not that it is with the text, with the text proposed by the PSC, we give this opportunity, all the groups of the chamber. You're trapped, you're trapped by a government, that was Convergence and Unity and the PP, that made an agreement. The government now is new. So, let's give ourselves this opportunity, let's make this law thrive and in the parliamentary process we arrive..., let's quantify – that this was already demanded by Salvador Milà in 2013 and 2015 – how much the party can cost us, let's quantify which is the best way to reverse it, let's quantify with the assemblies, with all the capital we have, what kind of business we can do and decide together what solution we give to this nyap. And above all, Mr. Sanglas, we do not sweep the debate of the National Water Pact, of infrastructures, of irrigation, of water, with this management pact; let them see, but it is not the same, and if we end up making a whole revolution we will not get out of it, neither with this nor with the other agreement. The national water pact we have to do, must be open to entities, to rulers, to conservation groups, to industry, to all parties, to all NGOs; but this issue is an issue that the government has to solve, and can't run away any further, because every time we run away from numbers increase, and every time I see more figures: when we talked about 2013 the Councillor Milà... – and I was relegating what the Councillor Mas-Colell gave her – we were talking about 285_millions; now we're talking about 1,000_millions. Listen, we'll end up paying a lot more; so let's all give this opportunity, all of us, to one, don't make the political confirmation and take advantage of this law to do it. Thank you. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.123.0	Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.124.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, counsel, ladies and gentlemen, I take the word, therefore, to position the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party in relation to this debate, which is certainly a recurring debate, but it is not a debate that we need to place its origin in 2013, but rather a debate that goes well before. Some Member has already mentioned some origin of the ATLL debtor; I will also mention it with a little more detail. In fact, the debate we have today at the front is a debate about whether public services – because the water supply service at the top, at the major, is and will continue to be a public service – must end up being directly managed by the same Administration or indirectly managed with the participation of a third party. Until 2012, it was managed, certainly, directly, and after 2012, from the 1st generation of 2013, the management was indirect, the result of a legislative change driven by the government of that moment, of Convergence and Union, yes, with the support of the People's Party, yes – and now I will explain – but also with the support of the Socialist Party, the same group that today – the same group that today – demands to reverse that legislative change. You see, Mr Terrades, you have always considered outsourcing unnecessary, probably thirty years ago, but there is a small exception, which is July 20, 2011, when your vote was favorable, precisely, that today we are also as we are. And why did the People's Party consider that the change in management system was appropriate? So, because of the situation in which the public enterprise Aigues Ter Llobregat was found. Mirin, at that time we already had economic information and would finance it in relation to how that company was doing. Today, in addition, we can add additional information, which is the account union report, number 14/2015, on the 2010 and 2011 financial years of Agües Ter Llobregat. And say interesting things, Mrs. Grau, say interesting things. And, among other things, it explains how the situation at the end of 2011 in this public enterprise is due, possibly, to the legacy of previous governments, but also to the legacy of a tripartite government, of an initiative counciler who dismissed a hydrological plan, who took advantage of it to make some alternative works to this hydrological plan, who assumed a bunch of important, very important investments, which, moreover, added to a situation of the same during the years 2008 and 2009, which all this meant, in short, that this company had many investments, and, therefore, future depreciations, and had fewer sales entries, so that before the cities were completed, it was so much to come. And that was the situation. This situation was difficult to make an economic plan and finance based on two aspects, one of which was unlikely. These two aspects were: to increase water sales, and, obviously, the citizens continued to clean up water, because, therefore, it had been a difficult situation during those years, and there was a second part, which was to increase tariffs. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! , here was a government, and I refer to the tripartite, above all, that did not have the valiant policy of applying the tariffs that were necessary to be able to capture the situation of Aigues Ter Llobregat. And we can see in the report of the Union of Accounts which is the result of the situation in the tank in 2011: a background of negated maneuver of 38 million euros, which clearly poses a risk of imminent insolvency; so imminent – yes, yes – fixed, so imminent that, at the end of the year 2011, Aigues Ter Llobregat could not pay twenty-six suppliers worth 77 million euros, neither less nor less. And this was to add to the €680 million of debt to entities that already had Aigues Ter Llobregat, not to mention the other €1,370 million of debt held by the Catalan Agency of Water. And all this with extraordinarily uncompensated tariffs. And what I just said can be perfectly corroborated in the account union report. If I may, this sounds to me like "out of everyone killed her and she died alone. This was ATLL's situation in December 2011, at the end of 2011: no investment capacity, no ability to deliver short-term debt. And, in our modesty, we considered that there were financial and economic reasons, without dogmas, more than enough to bet for the indirect management of this public service. Now, the second part of the film – what does indirect management of a public service involve? Basically two things– functionally two things –: first, transparency; second, a correct taxation of management. So, it looks like neither one nor the other. Mirin, in relation to transparency..., and to set a date of initiation, because we could go to the bidding process, which was not very transparent either, but if the 1st generation of 2013 initiates the concession, the 2nd generation of 2013 has the first resolution of the Administration of Contractual Resources – certainly created by the Government of the Generality to reduce the conflict of awards, vaguely irony – that says that the award is incorrect. And from here, all the judicial peril, which some of you have already mentioned: two judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which says that this administrative body is right and, therefore, has to cancel the offer that has been awarded for the service; then the Supreme Court – to the Government, this is where it enters and that is where it comes out – says that the High Court of Justice once again cancels the competition, because there is a vice in the proceedings, and now all pending papers of the Supreme Court. That is to say, we can strongly say that there has been no transparency in this process and until today there is still no transparency. But we are now before an investigation and a report from the Anti-Fraud Office where it is put in doubt in a very clear and obvious way that the prosecution has been adequate. And what we hoped was that the government, before this report, that precisely what is in doubt is that the government has supplemented with its function of taxation of the auction..., the government does not know, does not answer – does not know, does not answer. Mr. Rull, look, I can draw my conclusions in relation to the Anti-Fraud Office report, and I'm convinced that you can do that too. But who has the authority to say what's there and what's not there is the government. And the government said, "Well, we'll open an information dispatcher, we'll see what we do. Therefore, the taxation of this award has also failed. And, therefore, the shadow of doubt around this situation widened and grew day after day. We are perfectly aware of the dangers that would represent approving the modification proposed by the Socialist Party, today. It would be extraordinarily harmful to the interests of the Generality and, therefore, to the interests of the Catalan group, not only for the compensations, which can be questionable, but for the real figures– and the real figures are, in fact, the 285-290 million that the concessionaire paid at the end of 2012 – but also the 1,000_millions of comptability that involved this operation. And all this, aside from the possible compensations that may arise. Still this situation, our group has withdrawn the theme from the totality that we initially presented and we will not support the theme from the totality presented for the Convergence and Republican Left groups. We want it to be given to this proposal of the law, because we want it to be allowed to be more debatable in respect of the circumstances surrounding this award, we want it to be more transparent and we want it to be better taxed than it has been until today. Warn them: our current position does not prejudge, nor much less, the position we can adopt at the end of this process. But since there have been difficulties because the government gives all the explanations with people and signs of what has happened, in what situation we are and what can happen in the future, we believe that all necessary and essential things are being done, and that it is not being done together, but that we have a question and we can talk about all these circumstances. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.125.0	Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.126.0	Thank you. Good day, president; good day, deputies and deputies. We must say, first of all, that we have a great deal of interest in this proposal of the law. That is why we will vote against the challenge to the totality of Junts for the Yes and we would be delighted to have a deep debate on the question of water management. You know that we are defenders of the public character of ATLL and, therefore, of high public management. And, therefore, I don't think I would have heard that we didn't agree, from the start, with the processing of this law. Now, we agree with public water management at all levels – at all levels. And, therefore, we also agree with public management at low water level. And, therefore, we will address this legislative process as a comprehensive debate on water management: both high and low. And what we're trying to do – and so we're proposing it at the time as an articulated theme – is to declare public water management at the bottom as well. Therefore, from our defense of public enterprises as an authentic structure of state, we will demonstrate the hypocrisy, in this sense, of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, because while today asks that ATLL be public, there we have to make decisions, the Party of Socialists does exactly the opposite. The best example of the old policy – which I will then quote some of you who have to do with the interventions that have been made here and that have preceded me – is to say, preach one thing and do exactly the opposite. We, for example, want to talk, and so we will put it in the context of this legislative proposal, by Aigües de Barcelona, Metropolitan Company of Management of the Integral Cycle of Water. You know this company, which handles, precisely, low-level management in the metropolitan area, which affects neither more nor less than it handles in relation to 3_million people. Is this company public, Mr. Terrades? This company, Mr. Terrades, and companies of the Socialist Party, was created for a spontaneous generation? This company was set up by you, together with Convergence and Union, in the Barcelona Metropolitan Area brand, on July 24, 2012, at a time when a court decision had made manifest the legal precariousness that there was in relation to all the low water management in the metropolitan area. Did you take advantage of that moment to do, to set up a public body, to set up a public undertaking? No; you, from the hand of Convergence, constituted a mixed society, a mixed society that is public in a 15_per_cent– in a 15_per_cent–, and that the private part belongs a 70_per_cent to Agbar, Suez Environnement, and to Criteria, to « the Box. This is the model that you use in your municipalities, and that, no more or less than the main low management company in our country, you have constituted it as the private system. So, it's the classic scheme that we've seen in a lot of together, more distilled, "socio-virgency: privatizing a public service, privatizing using infrastructures that we've paid for among all and privatizing the management of a resource, that's water, that's a resource that, precisely, is and must continue to feel like everyone, just like you, in a way, let's say, with a certain political postureg, they expose in the expression of the law, that we share entirely, but it may take a little more coherence. And you know, therefore, that Antifrau, also, in 2015, made a report regarding Aigües de Barcelona, Metropolitan Company of Management of the Integral Cycle of the Water, this joint venture that you created together with Convergence, where it was criticized not only the lack of transparency and taxation, but also that it was critical, on behalf of Antifrau, that Agbar, which was left the bulk of the paste, 70_per_cent, did not make it without a tender process, without a tender process; let us say to ourselves, as is commonly said, by the face. You've awarded no more or less than your face, haven't you? , you, together with Convergence, managed it down from the 3_million citizens and citizens living in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. But it's that, besides, a 2012 ACA report in relation to the metropolitan area, continuously determined that this action that you had done was supposed to push 20_per_cent of the waste to the city and citizens. Therefore, you are not only dedicated to transferring public resources to the private sector, you are not only dedicated to privatizing that which are genuine structures of Catalans and Catalans, but also generate a service that is more because. And, therefore, it is clear that there is no motive here, more than imaginable motives, which can justify a political decision like this. But we're still talking about water management and the PSC, and we're going to prove, somehow, if this proposal for you is resistant to the cynicism that I've been telling you. We are talking, for example, about Mrs Laia Bonet, who, when I was reviewing the actions of who intervened in this Parliament on behalf of the Socialist Group against the approval of this law, was Mrs Laia Bonet. Mrs. Laia Bonet, who was Secretary of Government of Maragall and Montilla, where are you today, Mrs. Laia Bonet, Mr. Terrades? Where are you working today, Mrs. Laia Bonet? Lady Laia Bonet works no more or less than the directive for ATLL Dealership. It is to say – yes, yes – a clear example of rotating doors, blurring what is public of what is private, blurring public interests with private interests and bringing those people who have knowledge of the Administration, precisely, to the private sector, because instead of serving public interests serve private interests. But it's just that, besides, we can't help but put it in store, and a little bit has already been explained, that ATLL management, when the board of directors ruled, so it was the people of the tripartite, let's just say, that neither can they afford medals. At that time there was the Board of Directors, for example, Imma Mayol, of the Initiative Group for Catalonia; there was Assumpta Escarp, today's deputy– there was, all of this, in the report of the Union of Accounts, I did not have to go looking for place– ; there was, for example, Francisco Bustos, today, also, known socialist, condemned with the director for having appointed a charge to the Assembly of Montcada and Reixach, or Francesc Narváez, also advertised, this lord, precisely, for when a sum of seventy thousand euros was laid annually as at another charge to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona. And we could go on, on, on and on. But the most difficult thing is that the report states that, when you were at the ATLL Board of Directors, so even there was such a situation of disgovernment in the comptability that you even collected the administration board's diets for what the law provides, and you told the account union's report, that you, neither more nor less, had a diet in excess of EUR 67,000. This when Escarp, Bustos, Narváez, Mayol, were at the ATLL Board of Directors. So, let's face it, let's face it, let's face it with so much cynicism, why, Mr. Terrades, to Granollers, how does the low water system work? Are you public management or private management? In the municipality where you have been a registrar for so many years for the Socialist Group, which manages water is Sorea, and Sorea, therefore, it is a model that we want to combat, precisely, with this law proposal and with this speech that we fully share in its expression of motive. And, in fact, in this sense we have put into replete in those gatherings where we have entered since the month of May, to Badalona, to Sabadell, to Ripollet, gatherings where before had ruled the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, in some of them, in others the People's Party..., but we have begun to work because the management of water remains entirely public. Therefore, let us make it clear that we will work for water to be public, but that we will also fight cynicism and parliamentary hypocrisy. Because, only fifteen days ago, on behalf of the People's Unity Candidature we presented a motion that was being called for was precisely a point that laid down that an expedient should be opened, in view of Antifrau's report, because, if the contents of this report were confirmed, a resolution of, precisely, termination of contract by the department is issued. And you know what you did, the Socialist Party, and the Catalonians, yes, it's Pot? They abstained at this point – they abstained at this point. An authentic contradiction, if you 'impede, to say it in a leu way. Says the lady Grau, and I have to answer it, that looks like anything that a dispatcher opened to prove whether what Antifrau said is true or not. I do not know which system you are proposing, Mrs Grau; the Law of Procedure obliges us to open an expedient. Or do they expect us to dictate the resolution without opening any type of dispatch? So, that's what we did! Open an expedient! And it says the resolution that if it confirms what Antifrau says it is proceeding to the resolution of the contract. Therefore, I repeat, less old politics, and when they do good things, then it is recognized and said: "This has been done well. And if the CUP motion said something that is evidence like a temple and that serves because ATLL is public, then you vote for it! So, let's stop working from the perspective of old politics, let's really work because we have a model of public water management, let's really work because this pose of the law serves precisely, we insist, to discuss and to shield the public water character and, well, when they say that the paper can handle everything, so we'll put it to the test. Let's see if the paper can stand so much hypocrisy from the PSC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.127.0	Mr. Terrades, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.128.0	As you can assume, Madam President, for contradictions and allusions, all two things now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.129.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.130.0	Thank you, President. I note that when the Candidature for Popular Unity makes its interventions there is always a thread: which ends up coming back is the Party of Socialists of Catalonia. And, listen, with all due respect to Mrs. Laia Bonet, today's directive from ATLL Concessionaria..., certainly, excellent lawyer and professional, but, as you can prove, this position of Mrs. Laia Bonet between the concessionaria does not condition the position of the PSC respect the conflict that we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.131.0	Mr. Sanglas, why ask me the word? [[Marc Sanglas and the sewer intervenes without using the microphone.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.132.0	Yes, in any case, Mr. Terrades, the issue of numbers... It's 1,200_million euros, because what you're proposing is not a breach of the concession, it's a unilateral reversal of the concession. So, here's the corresponding compensation, and that's what's up. Listen, the 286_million euros that Counselor Mas-Colell gave were just to break, to end the concession, and now it is. There was no right to compensation. There is a cease-fire; that's why there are these 1,200_million euros, Mr. Terrades. There's nothing else. Mrs. Hortènsia Grau, Mr. Benet Salellas has already anticipated me: any administered process needs a process of contradiction. Any city, any company, in a state of law needs a contradiction, to be able to expose who their reasons are. We won't, we won't make decisions, or we can't make decisions from the administrative point of view...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.133.0	Mr. Bloods...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.134.0	...before there's a point of defense.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.135.0	...it's been 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.136.0	Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.137.0	Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word? [[Hortènsia Grau Juan intervenes without using the microphone.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.138.0	Thirty seconds. Mr. Bloods, I already know that you have to open up, that you can't act like this, but what I'm missing is your firm here in the Faristol, and that you've left behind in the area of saying... if it confirms what the Anti-Fraud Office says, which will be most likely, you haven't said what you're going to do. There's no compromise... law is an opportunity to pose because together we say it. [[Marc Sanglas and the sewers ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.139.0	I can't give you the word, Mr. Blood, because you've already spoken. I'm having a hard time. [[Widow's remorse.]] After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] The vote begins. Votes in favour, 62; votes against, 69, and 0 abstentions. If two more votes are missing, in any case serious « no, 71, because there is the vote delegated to Mrs. Eva Granados and Mr. Joan Coscubiela. Therefore, they are: « yes, 62; « no, 71. And, as far as totality has been rejected, this initiative continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on missing persons without apparent cause]] [[401-00005/11]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, which is the third point and which is the declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on missing persons without apparent cause. We shall now proceed to reading, which has been signed by all parliamentary groups. And I pray to the second secretary, Mr. David Pérez, that I begin reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.140.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. « Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on missing persons without apparent cause. In Catalonia there is every year an important number of complaints about disappearances of people. The last few years have exceeded three thousand annual complaints. The disappearance of a person causes anguish and uncertainty to his family members and a great sense of insecurity, which requires the public authorities to complete all the management to find the person absent and to make the necessary means available. These situations require swift action, information exchange and coordinated action by the departments involved in the search. In this context, cooperation, coordination and collaboration between police units are also instrumental in investigating and tracing missing persons, especially in the knowledge that disappearance does not have an apparent cause. In Catalonia, the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra has made important advances in the investigation of missing persons. In addition, in the year 2014 the Department of Interior set aside the Office of Assistance to Families of Disappeared Persons, created specifically to support families while investigating and following up on all cases related to the disappearance of persons. On November 10, 2010, the Congress of the Deputies declared March 9th Day of the Disappeared Persons without apparent cause. At its turn, on February 6, 2013, the Senate created the Special Commission for the ‘ Study of the Problem of Disappeared Persons without Apparently Cause, the conclusions of which were approved on February 12, 2014. The Parliament of Catalonia, aware of the responsibility of the public authorities in investigating cases of disappearance of persons and in ensuring that family members receive the attention they deserve, adheres to the statement of March 9th, as on the Day of Missing Persons without Cause Apparently and expresses its support to all associations of relatives of missing persons. Thus, the Catalonian Parliament asks the Government to continue to work in institutional coordination for the investigation and search of missing persons and to advance in improving care and support for family members. Finally, the Parliament of Catalonia will take into account the recommendations of the report of the Senate Special Commission for the Study of the Problem of Disappeared Persons without apparent cause. Palau del Parlament, February 22, 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.141.0	It is suspected that the session will continue at three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.142.0	It's part of the session. [[Interview with the Government on Metropolitan Transport of Barcelona]] [[300-00013/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on Metropolitan Transports of Barcelona, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent. There's a word from Mr. Albert Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.143.0	Well, good afternoon. We wanted to ask the government about the labour dispute that is seen at Transports Metropolitans in Barcelona and that last week manifested itself with the waves of bus and metro workers. Go, from the start, a determined defense of the right of vacancy, as well as the need for these to win or, quite often – too often – to not lose rights. We have to feel how, during these days, there has been talk of privileges, of workers' vacancies against workers, of vacancies that harm everyone, of political vacancies, of disproportionate vacancies, all to question this effective and legitimate instrument that is the vacancy. The fact is that we're so used to pulling back in rights and wages that now any sector that wants to get out of the way seems privileged. And we wanted to start the inquiry, precisely, by talking about wages. We are opening the focus: since the beginning of the crisis, the decline in the proportion of GDP represents the wage mass has increased. It is to say that during this period the economy did not believe, but that it took advantage of this situation to bring down the wage pool to a more intense level. The economic crisis has meant an impoverishment for Catalonia in relation to the eurozone. This adjustment was made with a reduction in wage yields, both in absolute terms and in terms of GDP. The data are from 2013. The 46,2_percent of GDP generated in Catalonia is distributed in the form of wage returns, while the median in the eurozone is higher, it is 48_percent. But this is not the closest comparison for which it exposes the true results of the capitalist crisis. The comparison we are interested in seeing is how the wage mass has declined over the years of the crisis. With data from the Spanish State, which in this case, therefore, do not make far different from the dynamics of Catalonia or the Catalan Countries, during the years 2007 to 2013 the income perceived for employees fell by 30,852_million euros, or what is the same, has dropped by 5.9_per_cent. If you look at the amount of money these entries have in the general GDP paste, it goes from 49,6_per_cent to 47,2 that we talked about before. Before that, we wouldn't be in our arms. Waves in sectors where the workers are very concentrated, and also in strategic sectors such as energy or communications, are the waves that generate the most impact, and therefore have the most chance to achieve their objectives; and, therefore, they do not benefit only the sectors determined, but the conjunction of the working class. It would not be understood, if not, the impact that La Canadenca was having in 1919, which paralyzed the city, but precisely because of this it generated an immense solidarity and which ultimately generated benefits for the entire working class: as we all know, by then not the working day of eight hours. These days, which we have news every week of new shutdowns, we are sure that the workers in struggle do not consider that the struggle at TMB turned them against, but quite the opposite. That is why we think that the concrete demands of these workers must have nothing to do with this Parliament. And entering the subject matter, bus and metro workers group the claims into three master lines. First place, against precariousness. What the metro workers ask, in this concrete case, is to agree on a schedule of regularizations of the sector of the template that is not fixed, and that would make those who are currently working in precarious conditions clear that in the years that are agreed would enter the company in the term that is agreed; on the other hand, the company has a 10_percent of temporary contracts, that the workers would want to reduce. Secondly, against the wage freeze, a linear increase in wages. It is demanded, precisely, that it be a linear increment because for this fact the increment, therefore, would tend to equal the wages instead of deepening the differences, if a percentage increment is requested. And, thirdly, the line of demand in defense of public transport faces the privatization of transport, which represents, for example, T-Mobility, the tram and the canons of lines 9 and 10 of the metro. We all know that last week it was not possible to agree between the direction of TMB and the workers, which they kept on the holiday. In the case of TMB busses, the address didn't even make up its mind to negotiate with the travel committee. For their band, yesterday the bus workers of Barcelona rejected the pre-agreement for the agreement signed by Commissions Obreres, UGT and the SIT, the corresponding trade union sections, and the result of the vote had therefore been 1,200 workers, more or less, in favour of « yes against 1,700 in favour of « no. For what he does on the subway, the meetings between the company committee and the representation of the management were resumed yesterday. We believe that the Generality must have a favourable position to recover the dialogue and negotiation, with the aim of reaching an agreement that clearly advances against precariousness and that favors the acquisition of power from the workers. And let's go back to where we started: let's talk about the subs. Throughout the conflict, he also wanted to target Barcelona's Metropolitan Transport workers as well as privileged sectors in the working class. Along with this, those that should be identified as privileged are the members of the directive; a directive topped with political burdens and burdens and which does not publish its sub-items in a transparent manner. On a question from the CUP, on June 2014, the Councillor of Sustainability and Territories, at that time Mr Santi Vila, we were able to know the midway from the subs of TMB's direct team. He also reported on the people there were for every level out of order. According to these data, and with the calculations of the COS union, the direct expenditure, approximately, to TMB would be 35_million euros a year. Subsequently, on 14 September 2015, TMB denied the information on the subs, based on the Data Protection Law. The company published, for this reason, a document named "Staff Structure", even though of the mid-size subs – we didn't see who charged what – and kept the complements in the band. With these gaps we cannot know what, for other bands, has ended to know. For example, that the former vice-president executed, Dídac Pestaña, former mayor of Gavà for the PSC, charged from the two companies: 80,000_euros of bus and 81,000_euros of metro. How many directions can you find in this situation, charging a sum for the bus and another for the subway, thus adding a supersou? It is known that there are 571 people out of order – about 500 would correspond to the technical team and about 71 at the direction level – and all represent an 8_percent of the staff. We ask that the subs of these charges be specified and that this situation is likely to have been declared illegal by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia in October 2015 – I refer to having out-of-date workers. According to the CGT union, while the average annual cost of staff in the subway agreement fell by 95_euros from 2011 to 2014, that is to say, an amount that we could say is kept the same, that of the management staff has increased in almost 11,000_euros and, by mid-January, exceeds 87,000 for whatever reason we have been. Moreover, it is known that these out-of-the-box addresses have the possibility of medical coverage and insurance. Before this, there is a need for a rationalisation of this directive leading to a reduction of loads. Upon enquiry from the CUP municipal group at the Barcelona Assembly, the Mayor of Barcelona, Mrs. Ada Colau, ensured that she would do whatever she wanted to rationalise and order, if necessary. The mayor undertook to start providing more concrete information on the executive structure of TMB, a public undertaking in which, therefore, this transparency must be complimented. It is more important to note that TMB also shows its opacitation regarding the combination of its assumptions, which never makes public or accessible. For all this, what we are asking..., and we wanted to ask the government about the government's urging TMB to make public under the company's direction as well as the global assumptions of 2016, which are already approved. In the same way, that the Government of the Generality calls for the rationalization of the TMB's leadership and consequently reduced the number of direct positions; and, finally, that the Government of the Generality would be willing to respond to the demands of TMB workers and that all workers would be able to join in a new arrangement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.144.0	Reply the counselor, Mrs. Pains Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.145.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Just like you started talking about space, I'm also going to like talking about it. The department, first of all, says that at all times it has guaranteed the exercise of the law of the vague. This occasion was by lack of agreement on the two ends of the negotiation of a suitable collection, which did not start this week – as I said – but began long ago. The beginning of the negotiation of this agreement, the first meetings that we wanted to do in order to mediate as the department was at the first week of fever, so it was long ago. As you said, the path is a fundamental right, it's a protected right and behind which there are many of the solid social media far from the story. And I like that today it's March 8th to remember as one of the waves of the sector, of the workers or of whom it was, that in the textile industry they agreed that, from that fight, many women we have been able to access the world of work, many women we want to access a decent job. But without forgetting, either, the waves that there were in territories like ours, in our country, 3,500 textile workers, in Igualada, in 1881, also make a gap to be able to improve the rights of the workers. Therefore, we are all very aware that the rights are managed to defend them, that the rights are achieved day by day, and that, therefore, the walk is one of the strong points of the working class. Also, the department has sought to preserve the right to freedom of movement and mobility, in the TMB issue that affects us, inherent in the citizenry. We defend the right of freedom for the working class, we defend the right of freedom for all citizens and we defend what is the common good and general at all times. Therefore, there are some minimum services that must guarantee the legal security of the rights, as well as, indestribably, the security of the people. I will make the comment or base my inquiry, the answer to the inquiry, on the topic that was spent this week, which will please me very much explain how the topic of the TMB wave went. Both the business committee and the management have always had this department in place to resolve the conflict, even at unthinkable hours. And in this case, to be able to cloister what was an agreement that there was between the two parts not to agree. She discussed it were two opposite pulsates. As in the department, as in the Generality, it is not up to us to put ourselves in the position of each one of them; therefore, what I will not do is not comment on which proposals the workers make, nor who were the proposals of the enterprise; for us..., or of the enterprise, in this case, because the enterprise is all of us. In this case, we have tried to mediate as much as possible between the shares so that they reach a satisfactory agreement. Therefore – therefore – the duty to the secret of negotiation, the guarantor of which is the department that encapsulates it, the respect of the positions to each of the parts and the distance that there is between the two parts, we are that we have to hold them without making clear which is the position of each one. Or we won't go in and evaluate the content of the negotiations, as well as the content of the information that came out in the communication media. Our will is, of course, to resolve the conflict. I will explain that in the department, a few years ago, and in cold – as I have always defended – it was agreed and signed, in the year 2006, an agreement between the employer and the workers of this company, TMB. Whether they are adequate or not, now is not the time to explain it, it is a question that we must value in the face of the future. And, as I said, never in my life can agreements between business and workers be warmed up. Therefore, this agreement, which dates back to 2006, agreed that 50 per cent of the workers, in the event of a vacancy, should work at the peak hour and 20 per cent at the peak hour, therefore, in hours when they were not the most mobile, bearing in mind that there was no distortion of the day-to-day. In this case, and a few days before, when the vacancy was predicted, we commented that it coincided with a convention in which many people arrived in Barcelona. After pressure for both parts, the two parts agreed that the department placed in place of 20_per_cent, 30_per_cent in full hours and 50_per_cent is kept in peak hours. Therefore, it was an agreement as much on the part of the employer of the enterprise as of the workers. And that's how we got the little servants. The review of the services–of the decree–minims, therefore, the review of this decree of the serviceminims, sees later; sees that on the 23rd of February in the department a problem of medium-environmental situation arises. Therefore, it is a report added to two reports that there were, of security and mobility. The transfer of the underground transit to the surface transit gave that the city was stuck, originally col·lapsed, and that the Earth's evacuation points, in case of emergence, were worrying. The environmental problem with which the protocols were activated meant that people had to get to know lives as if they were using public transport. As the government, we found it inconsistent to leave, for one gang, at a time of this conflict, saying that the citizenry used public transport and, for the other, to have the minimum service we had. Therefore, we agreed to move from 50 to 65 per cent of the minimum service at peak time, and from 30 to 45, as revised, of the minimum services. That said, to say that at all times we agreed – I would just miss – with the right of the wave. At all times, our priority is that both sides are able to agree as much as possible. Therefore, we have lent the services, we have held the mediators and we have held the people at any time to be there. You will remember – and we have said this and it has come out – that we were the head of the week – the disbanding of new hours, the dimining of new hours – mediating; therefore, the effort the last few days was maximum because it was possible to reach agreement, and we will continue in this way. We have made available the whole department, the same councillor and who will convince to mediate. With regard to what they insist on in this inquiry, to urge rationalisation, totally agree; to urge that the demands, both of the employer and of the workers, can be made, and, therefore, we, the right of freedom, for all the people. TMB is a public enterprise; therefore, we would be on the side of public enterprise workers, as we would be on the side of all citizens, because the general good is the important good for this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.146.0	Mr. Albert Botran has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.147.0	Okay. Many thanks, Counselor, for the answer. While I understand that our inquiry was on the way to two councils, you had to focus a lot on the role of the council in mediation, and that sounds good to us. We didn't share the minimum services at that time, and so we got him in the appearance to the Labour Commission. But, above all, more than talking about what's happened, we're interested in talking about what's coming. And in this sense, it was our question. And so, obviously, it is talking about labor rights, also everything that we have talked about, because we understand that the resolution of this conflict..., and making TMB a company a little more exemplary than it is now, that it is not people, as to these issues that concern us, the transparency that we have asked, therefore, will help to resolve this conflict. The rationalization that can be derived from this transparency, is to say, when we know what work all these quads do, and why, if these supers are justified under which some of them probably realize, then this will contribute to a climate of confidence with the template. And finally, then, the third place we did, to give a new deal, to go back to sister with the workers so that there's a new deal and that everyone's in this deal. This is what we were asking the government, that you feel part of this claim, that we think it goes to the horse of two councils. Simply, to end, to set an example, as in a case, in a similar situation, he was able to approach himself face to face and give a satisfactory solution. In the city of Valencia, for example, where the metropolitanity of transport was also oversized due to the pes dels de las carrecs politiques– this must be, therefore, a constant one of our societies–, the new municipal government, which entered in May 2015, unveiled that in 2012, the Municipal Transport Company of Valencia, which manages the city's buses, there were eleven directives, for example, that charged 21,000_ euros per year more than the President of the Valencian Generality, in that case, Alberto Fabra. Therefore, it seems that these transport entities are used to the fact that, with their opacity, there are places where political outbursts are perceived to be high below, and many times because of questions that they do not know if they are a waste. After a denunciation per fraud to the social security presented for the CGT union against the direction of the metropolitan entity of the transport, the dome had to be folded, and the new one, therefore, this is what interests us, above all, appointed by an incoming majority, has placed techniques to direct the company, and while the outgoing carrec charged 125,000 euros per year, the new one charges 70,000, right? Which, then, is a rationalization. With this I was referring, therefore, to looking for concrete examples of rationalization, beyond a good will. I believe that, with this result, the staff of workers, in that case of Valencia, can be congratulated that its struggle has been successful, as, so much so, at the length of this year, in the case of Metropolitan Transport of Barcelona, and that the workers and the workers of bus and metro can say that in that conflict the Government of the Generality played in favour, therefore, of transparency, in favour of rationalisation and in favour of the rights of the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.148.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.149.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. It is that the answer will be very short, because we are totally in agreement with what he said, we agree that the difference between workers and managers in a company cannot be the difference that is said..., that there is, but that is said - they say, they say - because we do not have it. You spoke of València, and of València spoke precisely of the Assembly of València, it was not the Generality of València. In our case, what we do is mediate. As you know, when there's a deal, it's both sides. Therefore, in this case, TMB, to be metropolitan transports dependent on the assembly and the metropolitan area; therefore, the Generality, a little to say. But we do agree that it must be as transparent as possible, because it is a public enterprise. When there was some kind of conflict, the job inspection was sent out. And you know there's some fine from the generality's work inspection. But on the subject of agreement, it must be the two parts that are agreed. We'll do our best to make this deal. And we'll mediate as long as we can. Therefore, we share, from the Generality, the issue of transparency; as I said before, the clear rationalization of what wages are, but they are the ones who have to decide it. So we'll be right next door. Thank you for urging us... to go in the same line that you have asked of us, whenever our skills are ours that we can apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.150.0	The fifth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on external action presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Asking the Government about external action]] [[300-00014/11]] I have the word Ms. Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.151.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament... Your Honor, I don't know which department, do I? ; yesterday changed, changed, something changed, but I don't know what changed, but in any case, honourable advisor, look, from Citizens, we wanted to ask you about external action. We believe that..., not only do we believe, but we want Catalonia to have external action: in cooperation to development, tourism, research, innovation, youth, culture, in attraction of investments; it is very important for Catalonia and, obviously, it is very important for all the citizens of Catalonia, right? We also want external action to promote mother tongues, in line with the importance UNESCO attaches to mother tongues. And I understand – correct me if I am wrong – that you too, therefore, have an interest in having a greater presence in UNESCO. All that, Citizens wants; wants their delegations abroad, perhaps less ostentatious, but wants their delegations abroad, huh? Because you understand that development, don't you? , of all these subjects benefits and is useful to all citizens. The problem, honourable counselor, is not that. The problem is not in the first part of Article 193, is it not? It is in..., a little bit of what follows the first sentences of Article 193 of the Statute of autonomy, isn't it? , when it says: "The Generalitat must encourage the projection of Catalonia abroad and promote its interests in this area– and here it is seen–, "respecting the competence of the State in the field of external relations– while respecting the competence of the State in the field of external relations. The problem lies, we understand, in the promotion and dissemination of the separatist project. The problem is – and I ask you, counselor – how you interpret it by respecting the competence of the State in the field of external relations. I ask you: how are you going to comply with the suspension of the Constitutional Court's decision? Is it going to be just outside action? Instead of you, then, will it be President Puigdemont – since your department is therefore suspended – who will have talks with international or European partners? Are you going to use the offices of the outside world, which are the offices of all the citizens of Catalonia, so that civil associations such as the National Assembly of Catalonia promote acts and do what you, perhaps at that time, cannot do? As I said a moment ago, the problem lies in respecting the competence of the State in the field of external relations. This implies – or we understand – that the promotion and dissemination of the separatist project affects, affects, harms international relations, exclusive competence of the State. And I'm going to give you several examples: when you sent the letter to your..., your friend, to Schulz, where we all woke up, right? , with the news published in a newspaper in which you wanted to talk to the President of the European Parliament to explain to him, among other things, all those questions relating to the political future of Catalonia, and also, therefore, to explain to President Schulz all the possibilities that he could, that he can have Catalonia as a country. I'm asking you, huh? , and in an attempt to put a little on the skin of the other: do you believe that this does not affect the international relations of the State? Do you think this did not bother, did it not affect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example? Did it not, therefore, bother the presidency of the State, the embassies, for example? When you send memoranda to the embassies and consulates accredited in Spain, explaining, then, what..., how you interpret it, what is happening here, isn't it? The last of the press releases, right? , where you claim that Catalonia, therefore, has competence in external action and, therefore, you believe that you can send these memos to the embassies, to the representatives of the states accredited here in Spain to explain to them that you intend to create an independent state. Do you believe – I ask you again – that this does not affect, that this does not harm the international relations of the State? This does not affect the direction of Spain's foreign policy. Or when you, to one of the questions I asked you – I thank you, because some of them have already answered them, right? – in relation, for example, to the Swiss Government, you, or you, because it is signed by you, replied to me: "The Government maintained regular institutional relations with the Swiss Government to deal with issues of common interest. Who are your partners in Switzerland? What are you talking about? Do they report on these contacts and regular visits or meetings to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since it is therefore competent? They're just a few examples, but I could find a lot more. But not only does it affect the exclusive competence of the State in international relations, it also affects all citizens who do not share the separatist project, not only the separatist project, but the arguments behind the separatist project, who want the Autonomous Community of Catalonia to have external action and who want the State to continue to have international relations, do they not? , which are not few. I am not going to speak on behalf of other political parties because I know that this bothers, and I understand that they are right, but just to remind you: on 27 September more than 730,000 people voted for the Citizens option, which, as a whole is much more of the inhabitants, for example, that it has Malta or the inhabitants that it has Luxembourg. And throughout the State, because we are talking about an exclusive competence of the State: international relations, more than three million and a half people voted for an option such as Citizens, which wants Catalonia to have external action and the State to continue to maintain international relations. And you also know that in this we are not going alone, but there are other political formations that also share this same vision. And since they always complain, don't they? , that they do not listen enough, therefore, perhaps it is time for us to tell you that to see if you also listen to all those citizens of Catalonia, to all those citizens of the State who have voted that option that I have just commented on. Look, we believe that what you are doing is not foreign action: it is secessionist foreign policy; it is foreign policy, and secessionist foreign policy. And that not only violates fundamental laws, but it is also harming citizens. I place him – I told him in his first appearance – in the dialogue. You guys would be able to talk to the snails while they were international, wouldn't you? , instead of talking to other political forces, here in Catalonia, who do not share, I insist, not only their separatist project, but the arguments that they support – of an economic, social, cultural, political, legal, etc. nature – that they support, that they support the separatist project. That is why we want to ask you, and also within the framework of the Catalan Foreign Action Act, to establish a framework of fluid and stable dialogue on a permanent basis, not that it is something specific, so that the Government and the different political forces can talk, you can explain to us your European and international agenda, we can also explain our concerns and, perhaps, with this internal dialogue at home – in our home – we can avoid inconveniences such as the constant goings and comings to the Constitutional Court, and we can greatly improve external action.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.152.0	The advisor of Afers and External Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Raül Romeva, will respond.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.153.0	Thank you very much, President. Many thanks, honourable Member, and my colleague from the university, to whom we have also agreed many years, and, therefore, we have a certain academic coincidence in this aspect, precisely, of the management of international relations, from the perspective of academia; now we do so from the perspective of politics, which is always interesting. I, let's start with some reflections that I think it's important to clarify, I think there's some confusion, and let's say it with all frankness: confound what they want with reality and confound what they are, in other words, obsessions, with what they are made of. I think, in this sense, we need to be very aware of some data. Allow me to remind you of a few things that seem important to me: since the year 1982, which there is a permanent and regular external action on the part of the Government of the Generality. And that's important because a country like Catalonia, of social, economic, cultural, sporting projection like this..., needs to have an international projection. Therefore, this seems important to me, and in the thirty-five years that we are carrying external action there have been important recipes. I don't remember it, but since it insists that we agree on this, we put it in value: 25_percent of the exports of the State are Catalan; 8,300 subsidiaries of Catalan companies are distributed to 131 countries of the world; the Barcelona airport has rejected, only in 2015, more than 40_million passengers. Is that an international projection? Yeah. Does this have an economic impact on businesses in Catalonia, but also on those Catalan businesses outside? Sense of doubt. And, therefore, here there must be a fluid relationship from the point of view, I repeat, of institutional relations in the international sphere. But it is that, moreover, since the year 2006, the State, explicitly – and this is law, it is not a wish, it is not an obsession, it is not... ; it is law, it is an obligation –, establishes, in its Article 193, that external action no longer derives so much from political practice, but rather from having a condition of obligation. This is what we are doing, we are completing the law – we are completing the law. Therefore, as we are completing the law, so you say 'uneasy to go to the Constitutional Court' – which you have not done in this case, you have done another political formation, but because of your speeches, I understand that neither is there any left over – you simply have no sense, no one, because you are completing the law from the point of view of which the explicit powers of the State are, I repeat, it is not that you allow us, it is that we are obliged to do so. That said, there is another aspect that seems important to me to remember. You spoke of this need to have a relationship in the world that is coherent. He has forgotten to count in his two-million count of people who explicitly voted in favour of Catalonia ending up feeling a state, democratically, but legitimately as well. I will explain it with all frankness, because it is what we are doing, that when we speak with many actors– and we are doing it, and I personally am doing it, from embassies to consulates or actors in the international economic or cultural sphere–, one of the functions that any person, not the counselor, has – that I remember, that the Counsellor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, has followed, that this has not changed or a comma – is not only the function of this councilor, but also the function of any government responsible for an international dialogue..., which is what the reality is. And the reality is very simple: it is to explain that on September 27th there were some choices with a historical participation and that in these choices there was a 48_per_cent that explicitly voted that yes to this will, I want and right that Catalonia is a state; there was a 12_per_cent that explicitly claimed a reference, but that added to the 48_per_cent that wants to be a state we already have a 60_per_cent that clearly accepts a reference; and, this is... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm sorry, and this is an aspect that you can count as usual, but the data are what they are; and, besides, if you count it ‘not correctly, there are also a lot of people from this voter who said no, who are in favour of a referendum. If you count correctly, 80_per_cent of this country has said by active and passive that it wants to vote. I am convinced that the one who is my friend Margallo, García-Margallo, because we shared two years in the European Parliament... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.154.0	And please... and please, hey...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.155.0	Are they nervous – are they nervous? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.156.0	Please, respect the turn of words, then you can answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.157.0	What I'm donating is information, huh? I'm not a giver... I'm a giver of information. What I am convinced is that these facts Mr García-Margallo, when he goes around the world, explains them with complete peace; because effectively the paper, as you say, of the international actor is to explain things as they are, not to make partisanship. That would be a wish. The reality that we've experienced these past few years is a little different and, therefore, I have a little experience, because I've experienced it in my own flesh, and I've seen exactly what role the Spanish state government plays when it's moving around the world, and I assure you that it's not to promote the interests of these companies, these cultural communities, the language, this country that is Catalonia, at all. And I could put a lot of examples that I'm going to save him, because we don't only have time, but they're from known envelopes. But it's important, said this, to explain what we are doing, because that's exactly what I think is worth all the work, which, I repeat, is not just that we have right to do it, it's that we are obliged to do it. And I will remind you, for example..., you considered the case of delegations abroad; you know perfectly well that the presence abroad in the form of a delegation has a function that is to facilitate things, both to businesses, or to social actors, or to economic actors, to cultural actors, who come abroad, who can have a reference in those countries where these delegations are located. And, at the same time, help communities abroad to develop their pocket. And, yes; if an association wants to do an act, as an entity, in a space where there is a delegation, the only one to do is ask for it; it asks and the delegation leaves it the space. And it's not a question that this counselor can judge better or better; it's a right that has the citizens out there. How could you do that if you were at these moments... since you have given thought to the concrete case of Brussels; you could do it perfectly. But it's more like they have a positive recipe, these actions. These delegations, among other things... I'll talk to you about the Brussels case, since you've mentioned it, and so many times you see it as a problem. Miri, it's been a while now – I'm sure you know that, huh? , but I remember it – it was published a news that seems to me to be relevant, that is that the Catalan centers have rejected 67_percent of the scholarships destined for the Spanish State in the later call of the European Research Council. This has two components: one, which actually has a very important level of research and excellence at the level of Catalonia; two, which the government delegation in Brussels has done the job that it had to do, which is to put in value this excellence in research in order to be able to access these aids, these supports, these crops, in order to, I repeat, be able to do this job. This is a positive recipe. This obsessive persecution that his party has and that they have others respect the delegations, in general, puts at risk these types of actions; therefore, it puts at risk those measures that have a positive recipe for Catalan society in all its spheres. But I will give you another example that seems particularly worrying to me, much more worrying yet, if I may, that you have to see with the paper that we are playing, very important, in terms of cooperation. You know Catalonia is one of the countries that, in terms of cooperation, has done a lot and should do a lot more, huh? Much more; we are not, nor far away, at the levels that we should be there, but what has been done is, for me, important, and, as a minimum, put it in value. You know perfectly well that one of the activities that we have in Mozambique and with which we are working from a point of view of innovation, of cooperation at many levels. With this, I repeat, obsessive kindness against this department put at risk these types of projects. And, as we are not in any case willing to put them at risk, we will continue to defend them, we will continue to maintain them, despite this campaign of discrediting that you are due to end. In fact, this very week the director of the Catalan Agency for Cooperation is in Mozambique and, therefore, yes, makes an international projection in these areas. Last week the Director General of Cooperation was in Morocco, also talking about cooperation. We talk, in many of these projects, about applying the Pla Director of Cooperation, which involves, among other things, the equality between women and men, and the better conditions of women in many of these communities. That's what we're doing – that's what we're doing – not another thing. And all you see as fantasies in the background is, quite simply, a political debate. What I demand from you and from other political groups is that all I want to see with political disagreements is to discuss it here in a political environment, in a political environment, in a political environment, and leave the Constitutional Court. You mentioned it, I don't say it to you; it was brought to the court by other forces, but you did. Let the judicial institutions be, come and do politics, and that's where he'll always find us. And when you talk about dialog, there's no problem: my office is open, either here or in the department, and you can come, obviously, when you want, if you haven't already asked.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.158.0	I have the word Ms. Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.159.0	Honourable Counselor – and I like to say it this way – I welcome the delegations abroad..., and I welcome the fact that from the department there is outside action, and Citizens want outside action. If that's what we're not going to stand against, if what we want is just that! Now, you didn't answer me when I told you how to interpret it that... obviously it's an obligation, external action; it's that we agree, we won't discuss it. We want delegations outside, okay? A little more cheap, but we want delegations outside. And that's what you told me, isn't it? , that the Government of the State, with its embassies, therefore, does not do so as well as it could, we agree – we agree – and that is something, therefore, that must probably be done in the next few years. We agree; if that's what I won't discuss. Now, I'm gonna argue with him, and that's what I told him, huh? , which Article 193 says: "The Government, the Generality must promote the external projection respecting the competence of the State in matters of international relations. How do you understand respecting the competence of the State in the field of international relations? And here – here – we see the problem, it is not in external action, it is in the promotion and dissemination of the separatist project, because this separatist project does not respect, it damages the competence in the matter of international relations of the State; therefore, it harms all those citizens not only in Catalonia, but in the joint venture of the State, who do not share the separatist project and, as I said before and again, the arguments that support this separatist project. We believe that external action must bring together three conditions. One, which must benefit all the citizens of Catalonia, because it is really outside action. It is possible that at a given time, therefore, external action is being taken to benefit a specific sector, right? ; for example, the promotion of Catalan wines abroad. But, if not, that of promoting a certain sector, a certain group, cannot be in harm's way, cannot harm the rest of the citizens. Secondly, it cannot harm the international relations of the State. And all these cards, right? , that they send from the government – because, do not forget, you are government – to the delegations, to the embassies, to the consulates, therefore, obviously, affect the international relations of the State. And a third feature because there is external action is that this external action has to be derived from some of the statutory competitions. We believe that the promotion and dissemination of the separatist project does not meet the three conditions that I just deleted because there is external action. We don't want to go to the Constitution, but we have to go, because you, therefore, don't complete the law. You tell me, honourable counselor, that the one you explain, right? To the embassies and consulates, therefore, is what has happened here in Catalonia. But it's that you, in the cards they send, so they say, "Outdoor action is completely viable, it's completely legal. And I'm saying, speak, promote, spread, and more with the arguments they're making, and say that this is legal... so we don't agree, with your position, because we think that they're just not respecting the law. And by not respecting the legality of the State, they are also harming all those citizens who do not support, who have not bought, who do not agree with their separatist project. Then, if you want to do external action, I invite you..., we will present a motion to ask, therefore, for a stable communication mechanism with you to talk about things that can be done externally and that we want and encourage you to do, whenever external action is done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.160.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.161.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member of Parliament... quickly, because I have the feeling that we are also entering a difficult-to-get-out dialog. The first is to deny a major: you can say that the political debate that we are having in Catalonia disincentives investment and economic presence in this country, absolutely. The data disowns it roundly – roundly, roundly. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, the fact that we explain that there is a social political demand to do something that, I repeat, is perfectly legitimate, that is a way of harming. Political debate can never hurt. On the contrary, a company moves forward on the basis of comparing projects and on the basis of discussions of proposals, policies and other types. Therefore, when you speak of this difficulty that you have this reality to promote those objectives that external action must have... it is simply not true. The second one questioned that it seemed important to me to pose as a manifesto. You are oblivious to another time – and it seems to me that it is important to remember it –..., if you really were a defender of what democratic principles are, of respect for the will of the people, you would speak with property of what the majority of this country has been demanding for years and which, among others, you are denying. This is the personal and phonetic evidence. And that's what people, the world, don't understand; and I say it with all frankness. I have spoken and speak and speak with a lot of people, and I assure you that I do not understand anyone before these data, before these social evidences, before the results of September 27th, the constant and permanent obstruction to listen to us, to sit down and talk about what most of this country is asking for, is so difficult to do. No one understands this, I assure you, no one understands it. And when you talk to me about legality, I say it with all frankness too: say 'you have a single competence that at these times we have been violated, of the State. You know perfectly well that the Constitution establishes the explicit and pro-active powers that fall within the competence of the State, and they are, as a matter of principle, the drafting of treaties or the international representation. And that's not what we're doing, Mrs Beltran, that's not what we're doing. Not that we don't want to do it, because if socially and democratically this society wants to go here, it has all the right to go there; therefore, this is another issue. But this is political – this is political – this is political; this is a political debate; you are turning into a legal debate something that is not. And so, they're resorting to court cases... they're telling me they didn't, but they're telling me they don't have a problem doing it and they're going to do it; that's what you said. And they're using access to justice to do something that doesn't approach justice to do, which is to make a political debate. And finally, when you talk about this need to explain the paper to the world, Mrs Beltrán, in a very frank and very direct way, I think it is important that when one speaks to the different international actors explain the truth. And I can assure you that when we have been, these last years, working on a European scale, in many areas – among them, linguistics, economics, culture and other aspects, too, from the point of view of research – what I have seen from the Spanish government, constantly, repeatedly, is a expense, which I would like to see come one day to quantify, of permanent obstruction. That is to say, if all this money that the Spanish Government is going to do, with reports and actions, to stop the political debate is meant to do what you say is to do foreign action or international politics, I assure you that the world in general would be much better. What's the problem? Who's to do what you say he's to do doesn't. And, therefore, many people have come to the conclusion, for a long time, that this country has all the right and all the legitimacy – and more so we are doing it in the framework of legality – of doing what we are doing. That's what you can explain to the world. And in the presentation cards that we do, which... it's just explaining the truth, just explaining. [[Funnel veils]] ... no, no, the objective data, the data we have on the table, the objective data that comes out of the elections, the objective data that we have at these times in operation and in everyone's knowledge, and it's simply that people have information about everything that we're doing, everything that we're working on, all those initiatives that, besides, our interlocutors are interested in, because they're interested in knowing it, they're very interested in it, because there's a lot of interest that they can also do in Catalonia. And we need to be able to make it easier for this dialog to exist. And for the many obstructions they make, you or who you are, at this dialog, we will continue to keep it. And so we will do it with all normality and with all, if I may say, dignity, because in the end things, because of many difficulties that some people want to pose from the legal point of view, when they want to do it and they do it well, they can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.162.0	The next item is the question to the Government on actions to adapt to the suspension of certain competitions of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. [[Question to the Government on actions to adapt to the suspension of certain competitions of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency]] [[300-00016/11]] There's a word from Mr. Juan Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.163.0	Thank you, President. Members, Councillor..., President Puigdemont, exactly two weeks ago: « We will not put typex [[the orator shows a pot to the chamber]] on Raül Romeva's business card. And what have they done? They did exactly what they said they wouldn't do: tipex, they put tipex on Mr Raül Romeva's business card. They play with the typex as children, thinking they will be able to erase their words, their mistakes, putting this corrector. Really? Do you really believe that by changing the order of words you will be able to break the law, you will be able to skip the law? Do you really think that changing the order of words will get rid of law enforcement? Is this your tip of cunning? Have the number of senior positions increased by 8_per_cent to reach this conclusion? Frankly, playing Scrabble with words, playing Scrabble with the name of your department seems to me, therefore, a little painful and childish. But you will know the level of dignity you want to demonstrate before the world. However, Mr Councillor, the suspension of powers agreed by the Constitutional Court on 16 February is still there, and we Catalans deserve less children's play, we deserve a clear explanation from the Government as to how it will adapt to that suspension. Against the law, Mr Romeva, there is no democracy, but neither is there a political project that survives in the Europe of the twenty-first century. Look, you go around the world making yourself look like you're not, but the world puts you in your place. Europe – Europe – is left with typex to erase those who want to divide democracies and jump to the law. Let's split it up. The first to put you typex have been yourselves, correcting your words. What did they say before the suspension? Just a week earlier, in the Committee on External Action, you, Mr Romeva, presumed to lead the first state structure and to be the illusion of many Catalans. He will have to explain in what sense he spoke of illusion, because the first sense of « illusion in the dictionary of the Royal Academy is this: « Concept, image or representation without real reality, suggested by imagination or caused by deception of the senses; perfect definition of his external action. In the same committee, Mr Jordi Sendra, spokesman for Junts pel Yes, said that they would literally counter the foreign action of the State. He said that the Spanish State will not get away with it and will overcome the legal and political limitations of the autonomous phase. He also said, Mr.Sendra, that they aim at the international recognition of Catalonia as a new state. However, look at you, the day of the suspension went from epic to acceptance. They no longer talked about foreign policy, they no longer talked about state structures. Without going further, Mr. Homs, his predecessor, the day after, said that the Generalitat would do the typical external action of any other autonomous community. Go with Mr. Homs! He has been in Congress for four days and already speaks like Mr Duran i Lleida [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] , putting typex in Madrid to what you preach in Barcelona. But there are many others who also tipex them. You are defined as the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Well, there are kids who want to be astronauts, I want to be front of the Barça, but it's okay. But a few weeks ago – a few weeks ago – you sent a letter to certain diplomats presenting yourself as such, presented as a minister. And I don't know if after laughing someone answered him by addressing you as a minister. Perhaps some diplomat has tipexed him to such a pompous position, or perhaps he has passed as happened to Artur Mas, who after sending a letter to the presidents and after making a laugh, for no one – to anyone – thought to answer him. More typex, Mr. Romeva. You want to make us believe that you are interlocutors with the European institutions, but, look, your Secretariat of Foreign Affairs and the European Union is also suspended, as well as the competence of your department with regard to external relations and the action of the Generalitat with regard to the institutions of the European Union. But before the suspension the European institutions had already tipexed their delusions of grandeur. They use the concept of permanent representative in Brussels, the exclusive concept of the states, as everyone knows, with the unequivocal intention of deceiving Catalans. Perhaps some have fallen into this illusion, but I assure you that they have not deceived the European institutions. Whenever the European Commission is asked who is the valid interlocutor for the affairs of Catalonia, the committee responds that the Spanish Permanent Representation. That is to say, the European Commission has tipexed its false permanent representative, a high office that we could spare. And it is that, Mr Romeva, no one who is a state falls into the ridiculous self-proclaiming standing representative to the European Union. The cunning is leading them to absolute solitude. When he appeared on the External Action Committee, I asked him several questions, he answered almost none, doing little honor to his name as Transparency Advisor, but one of those questions was what were those partners outside Catalonia you presume, because at the moment we have only seen a xenophobic and Eurosceptic party supporting them. Yesterday you yourself explained that you are knitting international complicitys; man, call the international complicity to the pin of the « stellate in the flap of Mr Arnaldo Otegi, therefore, seems a little exaggerated to me. Anyway, yesterday your comrades ran to embrace Mr. Otegi as if there was no one else in the world who wanted to take a picture of you, and it's that maybe so, but I'm sure the wise majority of Catalans don't want to be partners or accomplices of the Otegis or the turn xenophobics. And look that you and you are spending money on Catalans looking for someone who wants to hug you or take a picture. They have a whole lobby – Independent Diplomat –, advisor to two references such as Somaliland and South Sudan, which costs us around €1 million and which issues reports that the transparent advisor does not let us see. But what we have seen is the contract you have with this lobby, where payments to third parties are contemplated with money from all Catalans. You, Mr. Transparent Counselor, must be accountable for these payments to third parties. We would like to know, Mr. Counsellor, what payments are made through Independent Diplomat, to whom and for what, because all this does not seem very transparent or just seems very legal. This lobby, honestly, I think it's a brown that has fallen, it's a brown that Mr. Homs has passed, it's a scandal that can burst into your hands if you don't put the necessary light to disinfect it. And I assure you that the Members of the People's Party will continue to fight for all Catalans to know the truth, because Catalans have a right to know what our money is spent on. We also know that Diplocat has become a distributor of public money for dozens of separatist entities to preach, agitate and advertise abroad. We would also like to know what these entities are, Mr Romeva. Finally, I conclude with an appointment from an adviser to your Government. Mrs Pilar Rahola defined external action as ‘the government's passion to set up mental pairings when it feels frustrated; this is what Mrs Rahola says. Maybe that's true and someone has to go to the psychoanalyst, but I really think something else. I believe that this whole pomp of the ministry, of the permanent false representation, of the false embassies, responds rather to the sharing of positions among friends and a clear will to deceive all Catalans. But we Catalans don't deserve our public representatives to go around the world making a fool out of what they are not. There's not enough typex, Mr. Romeva, there's not enough typex to erase all this ridiculous. Good thing the world looks at us little, because there are already enough problems, and bigger ones, that attract their attention. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.164.0	Reply the advisor of Afers and Institutional Relations, External and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.165.0	Thank you, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.166.0	One moment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.167.0	Miri, Mr. Milian...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.168.0	One moment, Mr. Millo, why do you ask for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.169.0	President, for a point of order and for a fact that seems difficult to me, before interrupting the intervention of the councillor. If I may, it's only 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.170.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.171.0	Thank you. I beg you, President, to order and correct the members of this chamber when they do not show the deed and respect deed. As the leader of the People's Parliamentary Group intervened, the members of a parliamentary group rose up. They're on their right to leave the room, but the group spokesman shouted out loud to our subnormal deputy. It seems to me that this lack of respect, not just of our Member, is unacceptable, but that which represents this word in relation to all people who suffer from disabilities and who do not deserve this treatment for those who use language in an absolutely inadequate way. And I ask you, therefore, to use your authority as the president to act in cases like this. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.172.0	We haven't heard anything from here, Mr. Millo. Let's take a note. I can go on, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.173.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Miri, Mr. Milián, I will begin with all frankness for a reflection that seems phonental to me after your intervention. The thing that seems ridiculous to me and, I'll tell you the most, it seems embarrassing to me is that in a state people have been in prison for six years to give their opinion. [[Greetings.]] That seems absolutely unacceptable to me. That's to do the ridiculous on an international scale – that's to do the ridiculous on an international scale – because it makes sense that it's not that we don't have a state in favor, as many times we do today: it's that we have a state against and, more than that, demophobic. And that's what you get out of sight gives a good picture instead. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, Madam President, take note, please, of the reflection just made by the honourable Member. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Twice, he did it for duplicates. I think it's important to make things clear... [[Widow's remorse.]] Didn't you hear him? So... I'm sure I can ask him, because as much, as much rigor as he wants in one case, he can go looking. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.174.0	Just a moment, Mr. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.175.0	There's not enough typex, Mr. Milian...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.176.0	Mr. Counselor, a moment. Mr. Millo, we take note of what you told us and we take note of what the counselor told us; okay? [[Pause.]] Thank you. I can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.177.0	There is not enough TippEx, Mr.Milián, to store this national, state, international shame, there is no; in this pot as small as you have, it will not be finished. But since you're so interested in my business card, look, I've brought you two shows and, if I may, I'll put you to bed... [[The councillor temporarily abandons the Faristol and goes down to the escho of Juan Milián Querol.]] Because I was engraved: I just gave him the two tags, which still feel valid, as they were since the first day. One is in Catalan, which is called the Counsellor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency; the other is in English and, indeed, is called the Ministry. Because from many years ago – not now, from many years ago – the translation into the English of the job we occupy those who are on this bench, into English is ministry; we have not invented it ourselves. And if you go to the web page, "if I hurry up, from the Andalusian Junta, you will see that in the English version the advisors are said to be ministers. I am sure that this reflection is so relevant that you do it in relation to this task will also make it to the people of the board and other organs, that in English – because it is the literal and linguistic translation – that is the answer to that name. So if you want to talk about politics, you talk about politics. That's what we came here to do. Because what you do years ago, which is resorting to court to do or because you do them to what you don't like to do, because you know you don't have the skills or the arguments to do it, it's coming out bad enough. And I remind you that the government of the state has been questioning different aspects of this government's external action for many years now. On 4 September 2014, they brought the Foreign Action Law to the courts. They then carried the Register of Catalans and Catalans residing abroad; certainly, many people who, thanks to their inopportunity, or the government's inopportunity that their party is leading, cannot vote and therefore cannot exercise a democratic right, such as the right to vote, which should be guaranteed to all citizens, viscous where they are and where they are, because of their government they cannot do so. But, despite everything, they carried this register, they took it to the courts. You carried the creation decrees of the different delegations that have been created in the courts. You have been appointed by Mr Amadeu Altafaj as Permanent Representative before the European Union to the courts. You have brought the decree of structure and, in any case, of naming – of name, of name – of this department to the courts. Do you know how many of these questions have been resolved against the Government of the Generality or, in another way, in favor of who brought this to court? Not one. Zero. Captain. It's a staggering success, as you would say. I don't mean one day it won't freak out. Because we already know that – President Puigdemont explained it very well this morning –: the separation of powers is one of the shames of this state on an international scale. And I guarantee you that's a concern, and a lot. Because in all the conversations that one can have, minimally serious, with serious representatives of the international bodies, if anything concerns, and especially the mark of the European Union, it is a state where the separation of powers is not guaranteed. And the Spanish State is in the first place of this concern. That's what I guarantee. In other words, you don't have arguments, you don't have a democratic vocation and, therefore, you use legal arguments to do what you don't want to do in any other way. But it's that, besides, they make a flagrant mistake, which is that, by doing what they're doing, they violate the same law, to which, as it explained before, this government is bound. That is to say, precisely who prevents you from doing what the Government of the Generality is obliged to do by law are you, with your instruments; it is you who are violating the law. And, therefore, as long as they were concerned about the law, they would have to start... and ask them, in any case, to talk to Congresswoman Beltrán, who knows enough about this, what I mean by applying the law, also in matters of international action. There is no legal argument to justify this last appeal; which, of course, I say in another way, and perhaps it would be good for you to get the papers your own party submits to the Constitutional Court. The department is not suspicious. First she inquires and then she goes here to give lessons. The department is not suspicious. You know perfectly well that the department is not... the department is not suspicious. I, therefore, stopped complicating things. I know that... listen, look, I'll tell you with a lot of frankness. I know, you know, that what they're looking for here is their headline in their like-minded media, we already know that. What we ask of him is political courage, what we ask of him is political courage, what we ask of him is that, once and for all, he truly faces reality. And we're asking for this for two reasons that seem important to me. The first, because people aren't worth it... You were talking about what people aren't worth; look, I'll tell you what people aren't worth it: people aren't worth it, from the point of view of the way, that there is a government that is permanently – permanently – putting at risk their chances of projection, external presence, legal security, seeing how the government can solve it or help resolve circumstances in which it finds itself when it is soft for the world. And you're putting all this at stake. And that's what no one deserves, no city, votes the one who votes, thinks what you think, because the delegations and the presence outside the government are going to meet the needs of any city and citizen of Catalonia. No one asks who votes, no one. Another thing is that you, in your action by the state government, prevent people from voting, I repeat, this is another problem, and it's hard, very hard. But this is a problem that you have and for which we are also asking for, for a long time now, solutions. But, moreover, I would remind you that since the year 2006, in which we have an existing statute, and therefore explicit powers, this Government has, in different forms, held a foreign secretary; it has held a secretary of international relations; it has held a commission of foreign aforesaid; it has held a vice-counsellor of foreign aforesaid; and it has held, another time, a secretary of foreign aforesaid, until now, that we have a department. They've been a long way off these last few years, because the concept of "external matters" many years ago that is present in this government's policy, and, I repeat, it will follow – it will follow – without any complex and with all the guarantees that we have and offer at these times. The only difference between before and now, the only reason why you bother us that we are doing what we're doing, if we're going demophobia, if we're going down to democracy. And this, I look at it as I look at it, you read it as you read it and say it in the idiom that I say, what's manifesting is that this State has a structural problem. And this, from the outside perspective, I assure you that it is not only very easy to hear, it is very worrying, because when you use, I repeat, the legal institutions..., or judicial – not « legal, judicial», in order to be able to face a political debate, what you are explaining to the world is that in this country people cannot think freely, cannot express freely, cannot act freely as a function of legitimate political projects, but are subject to a single, single, central vision of which you consider the model of state. A lot of people have been rebelling against this for a long time, because of democracy, and we will follow it. On the legality mark? Yes, he will not find us here: in the framework of legality, currently, without fractures, with total democratic legitimacy. Count the numbers, do it; but, more than that, with something that seems absolutely necessary to me in the present world: with normality, with total normality of action. This country has done, does and will do external action, and will develop all those measures that are necessary to be able to develop all and every one of the structures, tools, functions that, as the government, we have, and, as the country, we need. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.178.0	There's a word from Mr. Juan Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.179.0	Thank you, President. Look, a first correction: Mr Arnaldo Otegi was not convicted for his opinion; he was convicted for belonging to a terrorist organization. And having you come out here today to defend it makes me more ashamed than yesterday, that is, of your government. [[Some applause.]] In addition, it would also be important to read the papers, or what the others say, because at no time have I said that your advice is suspended; I have said your secretariat of Afers Exterioris, that it is suspended. Look at the papers, too. These days all the advisers have passed; all the advisers have passed through the parliamentary committees. In education, there was no money for schools; in health, there was no money for outpatients; in well-being, there was no money for residences; pharmacies, to be paid by the State; public workers, we will see. Everything that affects people is based on an illusion, a representation without real reality, which is their unilateral secession. However, you presented yourself to the Committee on Foreign Action very happy, happier than a loser, and announced the first state structure – that before the tipex I left myself in the seat. But it is that they continue to announce dozens of embassies, joking embassies, as well as inventing partners and accomplices. He hasn't told me the name of a single partner yet, and I've already asked him three or four times. But your illusion, Mr. Romeva, is expensive. His outer action does not go, as one of the muses of the process would say, with one hand in front and one behind. He's even left with high office; he's got some of them who don't work. For example: what does the delegate in Lisbon devote time to? I don't ask you what free time does – which I'm sure you have a lot of – I ask you: what does the Lisbon delegate do, for example, at ten o'clock in the morning? Are you going to an office? Which office are you going to? Who are you meeting? Does it attract any investment to Catalonia? Does it help us to export more, the delegate in Lisbon, Mr Romeva? I looked at the delegations' websites, but last night and this morning none of them worked. Well, by clicking on the Generalitat link, on the delegations' websites, the word ‘error' appeared, and perhaps, perhaps, yes, it is a poetic way of recognizing the reality of their external action. Only – only – it works, this has to be recognized, that of the United States, but it also does not explain much to me what its delegate in the United States is dedicated to; it says that one day had celebrated the anniversary of the Casal Català, and after a week, the same news appears in English. That's all. I would really like to know what the delegates are doing, but Junts pel Si i la CUP – those who have been insulting – join the committee so that no senior office in your department will be held accountable in this Parliament. We also recorded the appearances of some member of those ghost embassies – you used to talk about ghosts – which they announced a year ago, saying that the Government of Spain would not stop them and that they would open a fifty. Well, they announced in particular three – three –; they announced: Portugal, Morocco and Vatican. And, of course, there are a lot of people who are excited; their children study in barracks and you close the clinics at night, but you will be able to visit, I don't know, Romeva's delegation to the Vatican. We have looked for the location of this delegation and we have the Rue Pietat, a « pietat that has nothing to do with the Pietat that is in the Vatican, it is not that of Miguel Ángel, but the Rue Pietat de Barcelona, the Casa dels Canonges ; the one that appears on the card that you have given me and that we have already put the tipex to correct. And the same goes for the other ghost embassies; all on Pietat Street. Pure illusion. As with the name of their department, they do, they play triplets. Embassies without competence, Embassies without ambassadors, Embassies without office, Embassies without office or benefit; yours is not illusion, it is the core of the embassy. It makes us pay for an external action at the price of foreign policy, but it is all lies; it is the core of the embassy. Return the money to the Catalans or reverse it by removing barracks or reopening the outpatient clinics that have closed, but stop telling stories. The People's Party, Mr Romeva, asks you to do external action, real external action: attract investment, tourism and talent; potentiate exports and culture, but do not misrepresent – do not misrepresent – the public money of Catalans in playing to be a state, because in this way they will not reach independence, in this way the only thing they will achieve will be to lose self-government. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.180.0	The words of the Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.181.0	Thank you, Madam President. Miri, Mr. Milián, you are very concerned about the cost of delegations abroad. Perhaps I look at what the residents cost – I don't tell the embassies anymore, I say the residents of the Spanish embassies to the world – and the face of shame will fall to him – and the face of shame will fall to him – or I should have the face of shame; it's another topic. And, therefore, if you want to do numbers, we do, but we do well. Because, if I want to prove or contrast what the external action is from the point of view of the expense and is unable, because it is, to put into value the words that this supposes, too, from the opportunities that this generates – and I put it before a very present example, I also put it in a very clear example –, what is being done is, you are, an absolutely childish trilerism that does not hang in place. Second thought he wanted to do it. You talk about opportunities and responsibility. You have a bad luck, in this aspect, important. The Minister of Economic Affairs and I myself agreed many years in the European Parliament, and one of the things we were able to see – and none of us explained it to us, we saw it and we suffered – was the gallant management that Members of the People's Party did on an international, and particularly European level, against an infrastructure that is fundamental to the development of the economy, not only Catalan but also Spanish and European, such as the Mediterranean Corridor. [[Some applause.]] And for many years we have been seeing how they prefer, many of these Members, that there was no infrastructure of these characteristics if the Mediterranean Corridor were to be. At this level – at this level – we must regret the lack of responsibility of the representatives of the State in relation to Catalonia at these times. Fix 'em if it's hard. So, when you talk to me about responsibilities and lost opportunities, listen, examples you could not put a few, and these would be shameless, if a game like you represent in tingués, that this is another aspect that we could discuss. From the point of view of what the presence of this department means, I repeat it for the first time: this department continues to act, with all the letters and with all the eats, and, of course, with all the functions and with the intact mandate that it had when we started this responsibility. And it is because it is an obligation, because we have a democratic mandate and, I repeat, because I have, we have a legal empire. But, in addition, and with this I will finish, make one thing clear – you and all the people who fall into the trap of your argumentary –: you can try what you want, with this government, with this counselor or with whomever it is, but what this government is deciding to do will happen. And let me put it bluntly: this has overcome people and very difficult times, and it will continue to do so, and it will continue to do so. And attitudes like her, inside and outside, not only generate a remarkable international stupefaction, but the only one who ends up being convincing a lot of people, every time more, that the situation, as it is at these times, is simply untenable. And I'm not just talking about the interests of Catalonia, I'm talking about interests beyond Catalans, I'm talking about European interests. And if you were to listen instead of trying to indoctrinate and if you were to talk instead of shutting up and not listening, surely you would have listened to a lot of people who are asking for it, precisely, to make sure that we have been complaining for a long time and that we have already assumed that you will never do it, that it is working in a table and talking about politics. So that they don't get to do this, they use all kinds of arguments, they make up arguments that don't hold onto each other, and, quite simply, and I'm going to say it in full force, they lie. And when someone does that they lose all credibility and obviously lose all the right of the world to give lessons. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.182.0	The eighth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on employment presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There's a word from Mr. Pol Gibert. [[Pause and voice of the background.]] You're right – you're right: you're asking the government about the right to decent work and the generation of occupation. [[Asking the Government about the right to decent work and the generation of occupation]] [[300-00015/11]] There's the word... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, I skipped the next one. Presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.183.0	Well, thank you, President. My lady will advise – Members, Members, have a good late – last week you made your appearance to present the lines of your government program. It was not to be said that his objective was to make a country independent and that his job in these divided assumptions was to manage it. She also said she was willing to listen, to dialogue and collaboration. So, well, I'd like to talk to him about "entering him," and start the dialog with a topic that I'm convinced concerns him, such as the right to a decent job. And I propose to look for points of agreement and points of coincidence in the management of this entertainment, which is now a priority for my group. And we are prioritized because we are still in an emergency situation, emerging despite the illusion that macroeconomic data is improving. Maybe they're getting better, Estonians. This month's data are clear, especially for what it does to active population data, as you know; youth employment data is a disaster, and the situation of the older than forty-five years, a drama. But, in addition, the crisis, you know, is leaving us a desolate country and the supposed recovery is far more precarious than before and much more unequal. The crisis is not an economic crisis, only. There is a deep crisis of values, there is a deep social crisis, there is a deep democratic crisis and, without being an exception, in all the countries of old Europe, which often turns the head when they cheat on their children of war and poverty and they answer with tanks and they answer with repression, because this Europe does not feel able to hold, not for longer, nor so alone for the people who have inside, which has meant its paradigm, which is its vision of the state of welfare – in Catalonia we might say "middle". And this happened when the countries of Europe were abandoning in the hands of the speculative economy and the merchants the value that had made it grow socially, which was the value of work as a counterpart given to capital to have this state of welfare and as a central element for personal growth and realization. Look, it's not just the drama of the poor by now, it's that we already have poor workers – in Catalonia, more than a 14_per_cent – who, while working, can't get to this personal reality or this welfare state. We are losing this value of work and we would like to know that you, like us, want to recover it. With the tools you have at the moment, entering it. Because you also said to the audience that you had no means of doing this while we are not following a state, and I will tell you that I agree that we lack structural and economic tools, but I will also tell you that if we keep them, I am not so sure that we have done so. Because it's not just about the tools, it's about the model of society we want to build. And I'll also tell him that they haven't made enough effort with the tools they've put in to recover that dignity value from the work before those who do have all the tools. Miri, the economic model, the social model, the model of labor relations that we have in Catalonia today, which is what marks the legislation that we have in the State, has been built stone by stone for the governments of Convergence and Union, which have always agreed with all the governments of the State. If we're like this today, it's not Madrid's fault, it's the right here and the right there, which has always agreed in Madrid on laws, regulations and reforms that convinced him the most to defend his class interests. And you know I'm hard, but today, here, you're representing these interests, because you're giving continuity to a government that's still holding a majority of the same game that has historically agreed to them. And many of Catalonia's citizens don't need the supposedly superior purpose to justify media and memory, the same politics and the same patience, we don't need it. If you are different, define a different policy model. Battleline with the State – battleline with the State – to change the model, if they believe in a different model. Only then can we believe, some, that in a supposed new state will not repeat the same policies of massive destruction of the work that have brought us to this situation in Catalonia, Spain and much of old Europe. That is why I will talk to you about what we can do in this ‘entering from our perspective', and in the very House I will put forward proposals that we believe would help us understand the situation. But not only that, we also want to define who should be the model of the country we should have, and in this I will also propose that we define priorities in the subject we are dealing with. But we're talking about the "entertainment." Miri, I would like to remind you of what we are now dealing with with work, which is the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy and some European directive. And of the Constitution I will refer only to article 35.1, which says that "all Spaniards have the right to work and the right to work, the free choice of profession, promotion through work, a sufficient remuneration and no discrimination on grounds of sex. It is not only an obvious wish that you say but that, according to the ruling of the Constitutional Court 80/82, this article directly links public administrations – in this case, the State, but also the Generality. That is to say, the right to work is recognized for the court not only formally, but also, and mainly, they understand the duty of public powers to promote its effective realization. So, look around. It's not enough for the state, it's not enough for the generality. Moreover, the working model of the Constitution is broader, it talks about the recognition of the role of trade unions – Article 7 – the right of vagrancy – 28 – the collective bargaining – 37 – the distribution of income – Article 40. Let's go back and look around again: every one of these aspects, piled up and manipulated for the right of this country at the length of these years, until what we have gathers quite a bit to what we wanted in '79. And what does the Statute say? Therefore, look, I read Article 45.3: "Public authorities must adopt the necessary measures to guarantee workers' labour and trade union rights, must encourage and promote participation with companies, promote job stability, train workers, prevent job risks, decent conditions in the workplace, not discrimination. And, to highlight, the Charter of Human Rights, in Article 23, talks about equality between men and women in the field of work. If we make a mockery of the current situation in Catalonia, in the matter of right to a decent job, we will come to the conclusion that the Spanish State does not complete the Constitution and that the Generality does not complete this or the State. We have a trinxat country, which is moving away from the Europe of welfare. The yields of the Catalan families have experienced a significant and more intense decline than in most European Union countries, and this has occurred while focusing income on the richest population, so that inequalities have increased alarmingly. We are one of the most unequal countries in the European Union as a result of the crisis taking advantage of the financial power sectors, helped by the governments that are loyal to them. Labour reform has not been used to create jobs. The real goal, accepted by all economists on the right and left, was an internal devaluation because we didn't have the capacity to undo the coin. It has had the objective of making us poorer so that we can compete in labour costs – with low wages – and not to compete in innovation and added value. Our labour policy was intended to compete in the third division and not in the first. I'd like to hear them say that this has to be reversed, and I would like to propose measures to do so, too. But the immediate consequence of the crisis, which the reform has not touched, has been the destruction of jobs, and the one that has done the reform has been the replacement of more well-paid workers for other workers who are more precarious and with worse wage conditions. That did bring about reform, and that does have to be reversed. Defiscalizing policies have promoted higher returns and large business groups to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises and have created a more unregulated work model and where the role of collective bargaining and guarantees achieved with union struggles has been lost on the road, redundancies for the dominant role of the speculative economy. And in this way, the product model we have has forgotten industry and those elements of industrial production that can be elements of the future because it is based on sustainability. And what seems to me to be worse, the policies of occupation on the part of the government, of the governments, have been of a profound autism, pal·liative, for which they lost the job, when it was possible, and of follow-up and reverence for the enterprises, with the confidence that these serials are responsible for generating occupation, when they have enough work and have held our undertakings to survive in this perfect storm. Therefore, the causes of this situation, on which a conscious government should act, for us have been labour deregulation and precariousness, the lack of social responsibility of some companies, the destruction of occupation for an economic interest, the substitution of the productive economy for the speculative economy, low wages and, above all, in which you would be close to it from then on, the lack of control of the governments because of a voluntary absence of planning of the economy and production. Miri, if you agree with the analysis, in the reply I would like to put some elements of proposal in these areas. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.184.0	Responses the Counsellor of Work, Social Afers and Families, Mrs. Pains Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.185.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. So, from the start, I'll tell him that I practically agree with everything he said. Therefore, we agree that work must not be merely work, that work must be worthy, that "work worthy means not only generating income for the support, but also facilitating social progress, strengthening the working people, the families around it and the communities. Therefore, decent work is much more than what we have a lot of people in this country, which we are working, as I said to the audience a week ago, for the 'while, but with a look of the future. And we're obviously working for independence with the clear understanding that it's independence because people are better at it. As you know, many of the laws, many of the policies on work, on employment, on labour relations do not depend on this government or on the people of this country. So when we talk about independence, we talk about independence in this sense, because we want to regulate it here and we want to work for the people here. It is true that there is a social crisis – and you said it –; there are at these times poor workers; people who have work and with their work they do not have to live; that we have to regain the value of work. So I'll match it all the way here. Now, with this, if we had the tools we wouldn't, I'm not so convinced. I think that with her own, we could change a lot of the issues we have with work. You talk to me about the previous government – or people who share parliamentary groups. There's nothing to see. Before they were Convergence and Union, and it seems to me that they are not Convergence and Union now, we are Together for Yes. You talk about the Europe of welfare. We'd have a lot to say here, too. The Europe we have today has changed many of its principles, some of which we have, in a social Europe, in a Europe of welfare, and which at these times has not priority for social Europe. As a result, inequalities have increased, labour reform has not worked for which we were promised to serve and have a more deregulated work model with a product model that has changed. We, with the government, can do some things. There is no lack of government control. These days, in a short time that we have been to the government, we have already presented different measures in occupation. First of all, we believe that decent work is also safe work, and that is why we have set ourselves up, and we have set ourselves up to reduce the large number of accidents at work, which we think should not occur in our country. This same week, from the Directorate-General for Labour Relations and Quality at Work, cards were sent with preventive measures, both general and sector-specific, to 1,850 companies. It is the 1,850 businesses that have had the most accidents in this country, which surpasses the industry's incidence index in activity. In addition, for the Security and Health Governance Platform there has been a strengthening of visits both in companies of more than 250... – or it will, forgive me, this 2016, as expected – in companies of more than 250 workers and in companies that have suffered more accidents at work, especially in the construction sector. Therefore, we do not simply complete the Governance Plan in safety and occupational safety, but we have added all these preventive measures that would not remain in a letter, but these companies that I gave pay a visit to the Institute's work and technical inspection to ensure that the risk prevention legislation is properly completed. I'll tell you that for this year we have thirteen thousand performances planned. So, what this secure job is, we've put our batteries in a strong position. For another cost, you were talking about wages. It is true, but he also knows that wages are the subject of collective bargaining between employers and unions, and, like the government, the only thing we can do is urge us to improve. We must move towards a new Catalan minimum wage, according to the context of the European Social Charter, equivalent to 60 % of the average wage. We cannot determine why it is also state competence. Therefore, here would be where the tools would be important to be able to hold them. But from this government, too, a week ago, I forgive, more recently, on the 10th of February, I myself presented, as a mentor, the study of the impact of the adoption of a minimum wage at the local level, prepared for the University of Barcelona, which is for the metropolitan area, in order to be able to remove those mantras that were there for us that minimum wages of 1,000_euros would produce destruction of occupation; therefore, it is shown that it is not so, and that it is shown that it is the only way to reduce poverty and inequality. Therefore, in a_me that makes us the government, the issue is this: it is going to a continuous better quality of work and it is going to the establishment of a set of objectives of activity that is arranged in the fight and in the better of labor relations. Fighting the fraud in the contract and controlling the correct use, both form and temporary contracts, will be one of the priorities of the job inspection, which is the tools we have to be able to improve and get to a decent job, as it must be. Subcontracting control to eliminate abusive figures that, as you know, are often carried out in some companies. Time and fraud control in the use of part-time contracts and fight, as it could not otherwise be, against inequality and discrimination. In the field of vocational training, the objective is to verify that the training entities carry out the training under the conditions required by the legislation, which had not been done so far. And we also have an obligation to be alert to the issue of cooperatives, such as obligations to deposit annual accounts and to maintain the number of members and, perhaps, to go further so that we can detect the false cooperatives that had not been affected until now. In the Catalan framework of labour relations, our work is of normative competences that allow us to advance in the regulation of the labour market. The establishment of a wide and permanent dialogue with the social agents, economics that we have started – and as he explained to the audience, we have already seen with all of us – and with whom we have urged that we remain closed and day-to-day, it will make us look for a quality, compatible and productive occupation, both for our businesses and for the workers and workers of our country. Unions, therefore, employers and Administration we have to make a long way: the way of negotiation and concertation. And here he'll keep us all the time. The government's intention in the social dialogue will be, in all the camps: collective bargaining, safety and health at work, employment contracts and the labour market, equality and working time, inspection as a key instrument and social responsibility of all enterprises. And I hope, with a desire, that you will explain to us in your appearance now for nine ideas and new impetus that we may have, that I am sure we will not only listen to it, but that we will permeate the department with ideas that will bring us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.186.0	There's a word from Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.187.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise, I'll often ask him to make a move on me because, if he does all that he said, he'll probably be, practically, the one I'll propose to him. It won't be new ideas. They can agree with us. Yes, it's true that... you said that many of the laws do not depend on the people of this country, and, with some different tools, we could change the model. I did not say that we could not; I said that I have my doubts, because everyone has the origin that you have. For example, mirin, labor reform. You have a little problem. You have, at these moments..., you are among the group of Junts for the Yes, you are like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, on the subject of labor reform, because you have voted different things in Madrid. Now, the two parties that suit them have groups in Madrid, and almost all the groups in this chamber, too. Listen, there can be a new majority to repeal it. So, miri, we can start taking an initiative from here. This could be a proposition. And what should we get back? Perhaps we all agree: the capacity of the labour authority and administrative authority in labour disputes; the rights and mechanisms of collective bargaining in all business situations; the binding force and the maintenance of the validity of collective agreements; guarantees and compensation in the event of termination of contracts; the regulation of objective causes of accompaniment; the contractual regulation that we had before 2010... We could still recover it. It's just a matter of agreeing. And to get the job back, what work do we think we should do? Leaving businesses abandoned, just accompanying them because they decide how they want the country to grow, what has happened so far? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It seems to us that we have to plan. And what's up with planning is the government, which is who's got to keep the country's side at the top: the most punished territories, the most deindustrialized areas, the sectors of occupation that are sectors of the future, and so are those sectors that are generators of precariousness, and, therefore, we should look to avoid them. And, with this idea in mind, with the emergency situation we have, it is essential that planning is also an emergency planning, led by the government, but shared with all agents involved in the country's labour market. In the very Ple, we would ask you to do this, counsel: a plan of shoc, having at the head and guiding the model of country that we want in relation to the work; orienting, not far further. And if we do that, we take advantage of it to recover collective bargaining as the key element to get to the pact and conflict resolution. We create in a stable way a catalyse of labor relations that can be overcome by the way of the dialog to which the legislation has not succeeded. That doesn't happen, as we have seen with General Electric, with Delphi, or as we see this morning with Bacardí, who wants to move it does without any problem. And another key element of overcoming the status we have, as you said, is salary recovery. Austerity policies, applied in all the countries of the European Union to cure the malalty that the same finances have caused, have become a malalty. It's gone from restraint, austerity, and it's recognized by a lot of finance leaders. Look, the reality is that they're paying under misery and, if we don't act, the disease comes to the other bars. There are two elements involved: the minimum wage, which is one of the lowest in the European Union, and we will ask you to intervene before the State, so that you can achieve its progressive equalisation – which you said you wanted to do – and a catal agreement between all the parties, which should be suitable for everyone, I understand, because no one is interested in the state of pay at this time. And, lastly, we would ask him two things: that in this "while trying to complete as much as possible that social contract that we did in the year 79 and the State that we did a few years ago; and that if we make new laws, that no one went down. That is to say, I completed one to one of those elements that ask us for the Constitution and the Statute, and that, to do so, again, another thing: plan. We believe that it is necessary to change the current product model for a future model. Let's think about it. Let's propose a work plan. We believe that it is either to ensure prevention at work centres or to age for equality between men and women; or to prevent the loss of work places, especially in strategic enterprises. So, rule – rule. I mean, we build with our plans the country model we want. We're not just accompanying reality. And, in time, we don't want to give up drawing the timing of how we plant our country. That is why we want to put it as a priority, in these debates that this Parliament will have, which for us are priorities: a model of working relationships that assures its citizens the ability to offer as they do a decent job and a decent salary. In all this, I think we can agree, and that's what I'm going to propose to the motion following this inquiry. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.188.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.189.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for what you tell me you're doing, there's one I won't do. And we have gone to Madrid many times, I will not go to Madrid to ask for anything, and I promise that I will not go there; I will go there, as the Companion of the Candidature for Popular Unity told me the other day, saying: "You go to Madrid to pass, 'hobe, that there are many cultural themes, here, as often as you go, but to ask for what is ours, where we would be, we have been very often. All that you have said about better working relationships in the principle of your intervention, at first, all are about working relationships that only have state competence. There's no way out here. So I'd agree with everyone, just look what I'm saying. So what we're gonna do from now on is build it. And here I am taking over the construction and priority of the model of labor relations in Catalonia. As we want and as we are clear; therefore, what it is about is to build it during this time, during these divided months, to go to this social contract that you commented on of the year 79 where the work and the equality between workers and employers was a balance of balance, and it was not the one that passed with the last reforms, not only the last labor reform, but also the previous one. Therefore, let's go here, build it from here; build it with the Catalan mark of labor relations, Catalan, much more advanced than others, because, as you know, with the FTA we have resolved many conflicts, we have been able to advance strength, but we have to do much more. You were talking to me about equality between men and women. It is so much the priority that we give, that in this new government we have created a direction of equality, a direction of equality that is in the department that I have the go-ahead of being there, that it will work on the issues of work, but also on the social issues, because we believe that equality must be put back on the table and that what we cannot have are plans of equality of those so macho that some company had built for other businesses and that they remained in the league during this time. Therefore, I will be a firm defender of the equality of men and women, both in the sector of work and in the social part. We build a country, and here we are at your side. Therefore, we take everything he has told us, we will build the country together, we will build the country with the priority of social contracts and labor contracts as best as possible, and also with a plan and a plan of shock. But do you know what we need for this? Good assumptions. And here they ask you to help us, to approve the assumptions that we will present in order to start the bases of this construction that you ask of us of a catal framework of stable, quality employment relationships, because what we need is the increase of the employability of working people at all times, a better of the system that must be able to give better services; therefore, the support to a development of work, to a local development, to an equal opportunity to the occupation, to the social part and to everyone in general. Therefore, we agree with the majority of the issues raised, bearing in mind that it is from here that we will work on them, that it is from here that we are and that it is for the people here that we will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.190.0	The eighth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on employment presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Asking the Government about the occupation]] [[300-00018/11]] There's a word from Mr. Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.191.0	Thank you, President. It will be inevitable to make reference to other interventions that were made here before. Congressman Marc Vidal made a very clear presentation of the situation, and I can be very, very agreeable with that, right? And with Constellera Bassa, who's also had a relationship with which we could be, for the most part, okay, right? But it's inevitable to try to make a little, try to put a little thread in the needle and leave the speeches that are more superfluous and try to go into detail. That is why my parliamentary group has set three clear priorities, since the beginning of the parliamentary term. One, which must be salvation and education, which we have already made an intervention in this sense, right? And today, taking us on topical issues that we see on any day, so we have to ask ourselves about the occupation. And we want to do this about three very concrete areas, and we also hope to get very concrete answers. The first of all: I wanted to express to him the concern of my parliamentary group for a report that is known to you, Counselor, that is the report of the SOC directors, which came out later, right? A report that represents the feeling of all the directors of the SOC, and that does not leave it in a very good place: professionals who are complaining and who stay the cry to the cell and ask help this Parliament to try to find solutions to its problems. In summary, they reported hard problems in structure and staff shortages. Consider that it is not possible to tolerate such a precarious service where equal opportunities are not guaranteed, workers are not guaranteed occupational safety and cannot provide a quality service to the unemployed. This is the value that they make in themselves, the technicians of the Occupational Service of Catalonia. If I were to advise – or counsel, in this case – and my technicians tell me this, I would run to a meeting with them, to see what the problem is. The other day, she counseled, she told me, and I fully believe it, that I was working on this subject. That's why I'm asking you: have you had this meeting yet? Do you know what they think and what measure we can take to solve it? It is understandable, he will advise, the discomfort of these professionals. We find ourselves in front of an occupation service that has suffered from a flap of almost 40_per_cent– 40_per_cent–, just as it is immigrating from the biggest economic crisis it remembers; all a challenge for the common sense: as more in lime, we have less. It is not strange, therefore, that almost 40_percent of people looking for work or so alone are heading to the Occupational Service of Catalonia. And, in the later years, re-detailed in subject matter, template and program, it is a service that is kept in a short time thanks to the work of the technicians. Any study of occupation coincides with telling us that personalized attention is a truncated element, vital, to achieve success in the search for work. That is why the ILO states that the appropriate proportion must be forty-five for each technician. So, in this country, in Catalonia, there are now 684 applicants for every tech that reaches the public. And in places like Sabadell, for example, where I come from, more than a thousand applicants for every tech that reaches the public. If we don't dedicate a mere 300_euros a year to each doctorate, we can hardly give a quality occupation service. So, I'll tell you again, Counselor, do you think you'll find yourself with these people, if you haven't done it yet? What actions do you have in mind to deal with this situation? And it's obvious, as you said, that it takes a presupposition to deal with this issue, and it needs to be done now. The second issue I wanted to raise today, this late, is the issue of equal pay, which did not make a point in its intervention. It's a topic we're particularly concerned about, and this week it's a topical issue, obviously, isn't it? A few days ago we celebrated the Day of Wage Equity, and the week we will celebrate the Day of the Working Lady. That's why it's inevitable to ask her about this subject, which today is a timely one, but many people suffer day after day, as you well know. Friends, Germans or seas cover by mid-January a 25_per_cent less than men, percentages a point over the rest of the state and that has been increasing since 2010. They also get a 15_per_cent lower benefits, and a 30_per_cent lower pensions. According to the UGT, the incorporation into the labour market of young people and young people is produced, already from the beginning, in wage inequality. This difference is caused by the fact that women occupy sectors that are more precarious from the very beginning in their entry into the labour market. Thus, we have differences from the origin, and it is a difference that is definitely accentuated, from the thirty-five years, when they have children in charge and often involves the resignation of the professional ascent in favor of the male pair. We can observe, therefore, clearly that our companies suffer segregation in two ways: horizontal and vertical; horizontal because they occupy the most precarious labor sectors, and vertical for which we all know as the glass floor. We find, therefore, that labour reform, which has been referred to by a number of people before my intervention, is extremely precarious on the labour market and particularly attacks work reconciliation with social and family life. This generates an extra charge on women who have people to charge or other duties apart from their personal and professional growth. And to make it a bit more accurate: the detailings in bressol and dependent schools directly affect them in this sense. It is known that factors such as reproductive age mark a point of inflection in the working life of women, or say in another way: having children is a key factor in the abandonment of the labour market. And, obviously, counsel, cuttings in bressol schools do not help in this sense. On the other hand, this Parliament approved last year a law of equality, but we are still far from its effective implementation. I know the government has time to develop it by 2017, but I urge you to speed up its implementation in elements as relevant as business-equal agents. We must bear in mind that the elimination of gender barriers is not only a matter of justice, obviously; it is also a matter of country economy. Many studies conclude that it would mean an increase of about 15_percent of the country's admissions have full pay equity. I ask him, therefore, what measures does the Government have prepared to ensure equal pay for men and women? How do you plan to fight this plate that affects us? There is a need to strengthen measures to eliminate this problem, of course, as well as any evidence of discrimination in the field of work. We believe it is appropriate to promote specific employment policies for the collection of women, especially those who have the most difficulty in getting involved. And we believe that we need to put the debate on pay transparency on the table, forcing companies to make their pay and promotion criteria accessible, with the aim of fighting this inequality. And, lastly, counsel, let's just say that you're referring to a subject that has also come out before and that day by day we're living with the members of the Labour Commission, and it's the corporate crisis. Some unions calculate that every month we find ourselves with a big announcement of a company that is closing. There has been reference here, before, to some: Valeo, Ercros, Covestro, Delphi, General Electric, Autolift or Bacardí, who – as Congressman Vidal very well said – today came to visit Parliament, right? They're just an exhibition of the industry lost in this country that we can't afford for much longer. A crisis that makes special emphasis on the issue of the automotive sector and its components. And we can celebrate, at this point, the beginning of the work of the Commission of Studies on the automotive sector, which we hope will soon be able to have proposals to improve in this area. But the companies they beat went far beyond automobiles; we found chemicals, applied search centers, food industry. And my question is, Counselor, and another concrete one: what actions does the Government have in mind to ensure the current industry and to encourage it to do so? It seems that this competition is coming upon you and Councilman Baiget, but as if you are not here, and I understand that you are in full coordination with him, so I ask you to answer it yourself. We detect, and thus transmit to us different collections involved, a reactive attitude before the industrial crisis that we are patenting. We understand that the government has just set out, and that is an inapplicable fact, but we believe that there is a continuity of action, and that industrial policy is not what we would like it to be today. That's why they need to be more proactive. And that is why, in the area of the proposals, I would ask you to push forward the more industry pact, which is known to all, and to strengthen an economic sector that creates stable and quality jobs such as industry. And to do so is essential the government's will, its will. And as the government seems, for the time being, not to be in the pocket, we find ourselves with some examples, as is the case in the West Valley, which has decided to pull for the right and make its own plan of reindustrialisation with the unit of mayors and social and economic agents. Wouldn't it be better to do it at the level of all of Catalonia, Counselor, and have more strength to pull it out? What opinion does he deserve, in this sense, the pacts that he has made to the Balearics, for example, for the occupation? Or the pacts of Emilia-Romanya, in Italia, that remain in the center of the debate the economic growth, the social dialogue and the creation of occupation? All this to turn economic growth into something that is elementary to everyone, and that we all want, that is the welfare of the citizenry. Since my group, we believe, counselor, that it can be a good way to go. You can tell me that in divided_months – now they will be seven, more or less – you don't have time to draw an agreement of these characteristics. So, I'll tell you that the Balearics have done it in six months; so, still have to do it properly. And, it's more, we think that if the government were to change from now on, it would be good to leave. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.192.0	Reply to the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mrs. Pain Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.193.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Well, you've raised different issues; to speak of occupation again, I think we could have gathered together and made a young man, because there are different issues that are exactly the same when he talks about equal pay between men and women, when he talks about the crisis... but obviously, I'll try to unravel every one of the issues he's talked about. First of all, with regard to the SOC theme and the theme of this letter that went to the Members of the Workers' Committee, I said that I did not reject it, to begin with. If I have it because someone from some group here in Parliament sent it to me. Therefore, the SOC directors did not go personally to the department. We've got it, we know what's going on, but I'll also tell you that the petitions these SOC directors make are concrete petitions, and therefore they have to be evaluated in the board of directors. Each one needs to see if it's a ripped idea, if it's just an idea of him or if it's an idea of the whole SOC office. It is neither a staff board nor a regular participation body; therefore, in a meeting of SOC directors, therefore, a single sector, a single group of workers, whether we are used to it or want working class, so right they want to think of SOC officers, such as SOC directors, as any of SOC technicians or workers. Therefore, I deserve all respect, I am concerned about the subject that they present to us; but, obviously, they are not alone. So, we'll do the right thing. We know him and we're working on this, we're meeting with the staff meeting and we're meeting with the participating agencies. We've stayed with some of them to comment, but what we're not doing is we're meeting the SOC board of directors, because, as I can think, we're also supposed to meet the concierge board, we're supposed to meet the tech board, we're supposed to meet the guidance board... And we believe that the SOC's offices must be all in one and, therefore, all together. The data that they reflect are not general, they do not take into account the gatherings of the people..., when they speak of what they are dealing with: the technique, how many stops it has in that population, have not taken into account the part of the program contract that we have with the gatherings, that they are developing issues of occupation, nor have they taken into account any of the promotion agencies that surround it. Therefore, they are simply data of a director, of entry and exit of an office. Anyway, a decision has already been made. And one decision that is, office by office, contrasting the information that this director gives with the other office technicians, making the decision taking according to the whole office joint and taking into account the territorial dimension. So, we're working here. This card, as you know, the van rebre doesn't do much, and so we're working. Yes, we have: we are reviewing the work places, are changing appointments now and are looking at the call for merit contests too, one by one, of the SOC workers, which, as you know, there is a new call. There is a project, too, of study that we have done this month on the organization of the offices of the work; therefore, we have set ourselves up and we do. But the only one you see, the director's, won't be this one. The reorganization of the SOC and of the work offices will be with the joint vision, as I said before, of the whole working class of the SOC and of the whole citizenry at these moments, which are the main agents and the main involved in the SOC in order to make the redistribution. Also, tell him that, in relation to... Here we are looking to create a new rank: a person who stands next to the director of each office, who allows him, as in the central organs, a subdirection, and that, therefore, we can analyze more clearly the workload that each one has. Also, tell him that during this month we are scheduled to go to three or four SOC offices; that we will do as the Health Counselor does: go there, see the difficulties and problems there. We have sent a letter to all the offices that we are going to, not to say neither day nor hour, nor king, because we precisely want to speak directly to the users there, to speak directly to the workers, to the technicians of the SOC. Therefore, the collaboration and cooperation will be maximum, but also the collaboration and cooperation with the locals where these SOC offices are. That said, the issue of equal pay for men and women is a subject that we also care about since counseling. I said that some of the programs that must be prioritized in the SOC must be the collections of gifts programs. Some programs had already been signed before, and so we are with the review. I explained to the audience not yet a week ago, we explained to him, that we were restructuring all the programs, that we thought there was too much, that it was too much bureaucracy, that what we had to do was to put them together, and we have this theme. Therefore, a collection of women, a collection of people older than forty-five years who are at the end of the day, a long-term collection and a collection of young people will be the four priorities in all the programs we do in the SOC. Favoring businesses. So much! Today, the Economic Advisor explained how to get more entrepreneurs to come here. In an oral question I explained who are the companies that have left, and how to assume that they can come as soon as possible and that we have the maximum internationalization of the companies that are here. And finally, all I'm saying is that today the dice are out. You're familiar with it. They're good for Catalonia. But we will not let ourselves, as other governments do, be lauded by the downfall of the twilight, because we believe that we must deliver, as I said to the beginning, the battle of the quality of the occupation. It has increased the number of social security affiliates. They also know that data are data, that they are interpretable. There has been an increase in a year of 100,000 people, exactly 107,061 people, which means an increase of 3.63. And this month, precisely one of the months that many years have downloaded, there has been, this year, a fall of time. Therefore, the job creation has followed, it is relatively positive. But, as I said to the beginning, we would not let ourselves be swept away by this downfall, because we believe that we need a lot to work in as much as it is, as you said, the collection..., in equal pay as in decent work, as we did in the previous intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.194.0	The word has the deputy Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.195.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I would be worried if the SOC directors, and it's a theme..., and here are two things: one that is the internal theme of how the council is organised, and here, I would say, we'll go in less, let's say it..., but if they're headed to Parliament in accounts to address the councillor or the secretary general. I think there's an obvious problem here with the relationship between tech and counseling. But I want to focus on the situation they say... the SOC... that they report as they are. You tell me you give them, well, they're not the right ones. Home, I don't know, I do, but if the data from the SOC directors, the offices, they're not adequate to start worrying, too. Miri, I want to focus on the fact that I'm being held very much. I see in red that there are offices that have more than a thousand applicants for every technician... that's what I'm worried about. I'm worried because when they send me, these people, that they have a daily collapse at their office, that they want to give personalized attention, that they are able to do so and cannot because they lack resources, it's obvious that here we have a structural problem in the service. You have also made reference before, in the intervention of Deputy Vidal, who does not intend to negotiate with the State, who will go to Madrid to do cultural tourism, if I have understood more or less well. Home, I ask you, counsel, that these divide_messages, least of all, not for you, but for the people who are stuck, try to negotiate better in active employment policies, for example, better in transfers. Because it's not a topic for you or me. It's a topic for a lot of people that's hanging out. I wouldn't let a euro get away from what the State can give us. If they tell us no, we'll go with you. Don't worry, we'll go with her. But try it, counsel; try it, please, because, if not, we are already lost, in this sense. He made no reference to the subject of the Work Pact. I think it's an important issue, a topic that I could explore and that, besides, it's a topic where we'd find a lot of people to agree with. And, given that at the territorial level it's already done in some areas, I think it's a good stuff that could take the advice and push some of its own environment. We consider that the fight against the light doesn't have the weight that is deserved in the government's action. Consider it that way. And when we asked concrete questions, as you know, about the appearance, such as the Pla de coc against youth development, Pla de coc for seniors of forty-five years, the resources that you would bring to active policies, we had answered, let's say, elusive, not to mention concrete ones. I pray you, counsel, that concrete; tell us, please, what you intend to do with it. Because you've told me now, too, the dice of the twilight, that yes, that we celebrate that they are better than the last months, and this is a joy to all, obviously. But there are two issues that need to be highlighted. A theme: there was a Mobile World Congress, which obviously affects the contract, and that's obvious; we'll see how it recovers afterwards. And one thing to highlight: the youthful atmosphere has advanced, it has not diminished. Therefore, he will advise, it is more necessary, even more than ever, the Pla de scoc against youth. The issue of entrepreneurs. I would like to know what the industrial model of this country is; I would like to know where we are going; that the Baiget Councillor, when it is, if you are not the right person, explain it to us. Because we don't see him. We see a passive, reactive attitude, as I said before, and we don't see a proactive attitude that... let's just say... that there's agreement between you, the governments, the administrations and social and economic agents... to know where we're going. And lastly, I wanted to tell you... the issue of equal pay. I would like a compromise on the subject of developing the Law of Equality as soon as possible. More than a king, because it's a topic where everyone must agree, here, I don't think there's much discrepancy. And I think it's an important issue, that it's a historical deity that we have with half the population of this country, and I'm sure if we all stay together we can start solving it. So, Madam Counselor, I hope that in your reply I can give more concrete answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.196.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.197.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. At the end of the day, I said I wasn't worried about the SOC office report – at the end of the day. The thing is, I said I wouldn't be the only one. Because, as you know, it's signed by seven people, seven SOC directors, who tell us that it's from a SOC assembly that we don't have acts, that it's from a SOC board of directors that it's not constituted, or that we don't know where it came from, that they're headed directly to Parliament and that it's not for the participating bodies of any working class in their place of work, like the staff board..., to talk about it. And, therefore, what we won't do is classes from among the SOC's offices. And in this I believe that you, like the Socialist Party, must fully agree with me, that the working class must hold the agreements together in the workplace and that it cannot be given priority to a person because he is director of the SOC and does not go to the SOC advisor, who has to suffer a lot more, because people come in. So, listen, we put things into negotiation as they should be. We'll negotiate, too! I'm worried, I'm worried a lot. And that's why I told him that one of the steps we're taking is to go to the SOC offices on site to talk to the directors and all the other people. I explained to him..., to create a new figure next to the director of the SOC because I can bring all those themes to an end..., especially in those four offices where there are more stops than it is desirable for each of the directors. But, in addition, I'll tell him about other measures we're about to take. For example, at these times we have already signed that the forty-five people who were leaving the contract at the end of this month, and who were very worried about us, because they had already spent their time working, and that we believe that they are essential. So, what we're not gonna do is retail. And you also know that we have over the table a theme of one hundred and two advisors who have been interested for a long time and unfortunately won't be able to extend the contract, but we do work so that there are the seats of these one hundred and two advisors. So, listen, in the SOC we work there. But not just that. Let's work on more of them. We want the SOC to be one of the priorities, and so I explained it the first day I went to the offices and we worked with them. I told them they're going to be looking for the girl in the eyes... just like that. Because we believe in a public occupation service, we believe in a public occupation system in our country, and therefore we believe that we need to improve on all SOC themes. What do we do at the SOC? Obviously, complete the implementation of the restructuring. You know there's a law. Therefore, we have to bet on the strategies and the territorial deployment beyond what we have now; prioritise the orientation, and that's why he was talking about the hundred_two advisors as the key element of the public service, and minimize, as he said in the previous intervention, the programs to improve its effectiveness. The priority of the SOC is not how people respond to the director or how people respond to the deliverer. The priority of the SOC, as it could not otherwise be, is to improve the employability of all the country's workers, and especially the ups and downs. Therefore, what we have to achieve is that we guarantee it, that the right subject of the occupation reaches all people. For the young subject, as you said, I explained that we would promote the Youth Guarantee Programme, which, as you know, is not ours, because the tools that we have, and the SOC the tools that we have, are the European Social Fund and the programmes that we carry from the sector to Madrid. I didn't say..., I said I wouldn't go to Madrid..., I wouldn't ask or stretch anything else. I'd ask what's next to us. So at this point, I'm going to negotiate. I'm going to go find what's next to us. And what's near us, as I said at first, is very clear: it's the tools and it's the money that's near us. Because also..., or I'll talk to your parliamentary group from there and you'll see in what way the sector treats us; how it treats us, how the money arrives, who arrive late. We're making money this year so we can pay for the programs when we have to. So, listen: let's go to Madrid to claim everything that concerns us by right; let's not go to negotiate absolutely anything. So... and if it's okay, I'll go there every week, if they call sectorals, they don't call them, by the way. So, now that you win what you think you win, I suppose you'll change things, that one of the priorities will be this, and then I'm sure we'll hear each other and there won't be a problem. As for young people, we say... we do care. The youth guarantee we have to pull it forward with more coordination. But we also need to boost the program of "Great Acts. The import and supply of beneficiaries is 405,000 people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.198.0	Counselor, I seem to have run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.199.0	I was left... oh! I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, we're going to work on whatever it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.200.0	Thank you. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia of solidarity with the Sahrawi refugees on the basis of the humanitarian catastrophe in the Algerian camps in Tindouf]] [[401-00004/11]] The new item on the agenda is a declaration by the Catalan Parliament of solidarity with the Sahrawi refugees on the basis of the humanitarian catastrophe in the Algerian camps in Tindouf. Like it's a compromise statement with all the parliamentary groups, let me ring the bell, as if it were a vote, so everyone can come and give it more solemnly. [[Long break.]] Before proceeding to the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of solidarity with the Sahrawi refugees motivated by the humanitarian catastrophe at the Algerian camps in Tindouf, I would like to greet, on behalf of the Chamber, the president of the Catalan Association of Friends of the Sahrawi People, Mrs. Núria Salamé, and the other members of the entity that are accompanying us today. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]] I pray to the first secretary, Mrs. Anna Simó, that I began reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.201.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of solidarity with the Sahrawi refugees with the motivation of the humanitarian catastrophe at the Algerian camps in Tindouf. The Parliament of Catalonia, established that it defends the right of self-determination of the peoples in the terms of Resolution 1514( XV ) of the United Nations and international solidarity, expresses its dismay at the humanitarian tragedy that is experienced in the Algerian Sahrawi camps of Tindouf stop from the heavy flooding and destruction caused by the torrential plugs and the intense wind ratxes. The Catalonian Parliament calls for the swift intervention of all public bodies, international organisations, non-governmental organisations, solidarity movements and civil society to work together, as soon as possible, with emergency actions to cover the most urgent needs of the population, to assist victims and to rebuild refugee camps, which suffer from an extreme situation, and urges the Government to take concrete measures to help humanity through the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation. The Catalan Parliament calls on media to report on this humane catastrophe because Catalan society has knowledge and can work together solidly. Finally, the Parliament of Catalonia asks the European Union and the Government of the State to demand the application of Resolution 690 of the United Nations Security Council of 27 June 1990, because it is possible to hold a referendum on self-determination of the Sahrawi people. Palau del Parlament, March 2, 2016. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.202.0	The desire of the agenda is: inquiry to the Government on the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Interview with the Government on the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[300-00017/11]] The presentation of the inquiry will be made by Secretary David Pérez, but in any case, it is hoped that a moment will come when the deputies and deputies will be released. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.203.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., you will advise, I announce very briefly the four points of my question: the first, the criticism of the designations that have occurred at a later stage and that, in fact, today itself have occurred; the subject of reform – according to point – of the Law of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans; the third point, the programme contract, and, lastly, the themes of pluralism. We look at the last thirty-three years of radio and public television control of the Catalan Audiovisual Corporation and say that, under our criteria, we have gone from one radio and one Catalan public television, innovative, creator of talent and audiovisual industry, which was referring to the rest of the country's public television and with a certain historical recurrence, we have gone from this television to a television with a clearly sovereignist and independenceist drift, which we are no longer leaders in all the fringes and which, moreover, we have some permanent complaints about the lack of pluralism, and with a uncertain future, and with a deficit that we can also comment on. And this transformation that has occurred in public media, from Catalanists to independenceists, surely explains many of the complaints, many of the dysfunctions that we find ourselves or that affect public media at this time. For example, the name theme. Miri, the most recent example has occurred in the radio. We celebrate that, after half a year without a director at the radio station, we now have one and that, moreover, he is a journalist. We wished him a lot of luck, but we reject the procedure. Discretion of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation's party model of choice of roles, and they are discrepancies that we do not love and that we express with strength, but always with dialogue and, above all, with respect. I insist, we do not question the value or the ability of our directors – we will see this – but we do question the forms, question the procedure and question the time to do so too. We have moved from consensus in the naming of charges to this equal distribution between the two groups that support the government; yes, they always exclude the CUP in the distribution of charges. We have moved from professionalism as high as we can by the direction of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation to the fact that the highest is the ability to belong to a certain political option. We have gone from making changes when it comes to making changes when it suits the party that support the government. Madam will advise, on the subject of nominations, do you think that they are being done properly? Let's move on to another topic, to the subject of the Law of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. We want to go back to professionalization, we want to go back to consensus, we want to go back to the great country pact on public media, we want to go back to two thirds for nominations. We are aware that a legislative initiative has already been presented on this subject since the Ciutadans Group, with which we have already announced to them that, to a good extent, we agree. We also know that the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot has an initiative already presented on these issues, and surely we can also agree. And I also have the announcement that we, like the Socialist Group, as we said at the time they appointed me to bring these issues, would also make a legislative initiative to this respect. I think it would be worth it if in the parliamentary process these three legislative initiatives could be seen together, and that would save us time; I insist, there is this consensus on the part of a majority of groups, and I am convinced that there could be more groups. Counselor, do you also point to this professionalization of public media? Are you planning to go back to the consensus, too? Are you also aiming to return to the great political pact of public media? Do you, too, counsel, point at two thirds of the face of the nominations? On the issue of the program contract, we think we're late – we're late. Miri, in this Parliament's session diary, says that the 19th generation of 2015, is more than a year ago, Councillor Homs, the Councillor of Presidency, said in this very room that "in the next weeks..., literally, "in the next weeks we will sign the contract program. More than a year ago, he said that. I think you have an obligation to make a new program contract. How do you do it? Miri, in fact, it's all made up. We can do one thing: we take what we have, we take the last contract program: we have to overcome the deficit; we have to give a financial enablement to the audiovisual media, to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans; we also have to compromise the Catalan corporation – it is the third great distance from the previous contract program – in the content of the expenditure and in the content of the deficit, and, the fourth point, we have to see that you do not increase the staffing, and if you can go to a small reduction of the staffing, then, better. If we agree on these four points, go ahead. Count on us to pull the program contract forward. If, in addition, we get the CCMA to be the main audiovisual content production center in Catalonia, perfect. Yeah, plus, we can do it with quality, management and hearing indicators, perfect. Otherwise, in any case, you can count on us to draw up this program contract. But, Counselor, to unblock this contract program, we have to put the batteries down, to say the least. At the control committee, Mr. Brauli Duart said that it no longer fell on him, it fell on the government. So, who's it from? How do we get it? What kind of time do we have for the final signature of this program contract? Finally, the subject of pluralism. If I may, the Mònica Planas, in the Diari Ara, ugly a few days ago a reflection on five serious the deures that the new director would have. He commented on the need to achieve – comets – ‘the complicated challenge of eliminating the independence label from public television in Catalonia; further ahead, he continued to ask‘not to convey the feeling that it is the TV of some, the usual, the same rope. Look, you can tell me: "Mr. MP, radio and public television are more plural than you think. And I accept it; but I also accept that I have the duty to try to mislead, to try to prove it. And it's in this sense that I ask the government to ask if they're saying or explaining to me what are the Tertullians who are in the radio and public television debate programs, and to tell me with what frequency they participate in these debates, and that, therefore, from the sou, we'll know with what frequency. And what's not normal... I think it's not normal, ma'am, to have a member of your government tell me that this is a political intrusion. I don't want to give it to him again either. But I'd like to know your opinion, too. Because I'm doing my job; my job is to ask the government, my job is to ask you questions. Our first concern is that public radio and television remain media where we all feel comfortable. I don't mean the games, I mean all the citizens of Catalonia can feel like watching or listening to our radio and public television. We thank, we congratulate the activity, much of the activity that the professionals of the public media do. We've commented on it to the control committee. Let's say again: you know how hard to say programs, but it's worth it sometimes, too, isn't it? , that the people who do it well take the happiness: the Sense fiction, A Hand of Counts, the Merlí, and also to the radio, The Great Anaconda or In custody, and many more programs that are very brilliantly fan to public television. They ask you to convey this congratulations to the professionals of radio and public television. But, look, counselor, there are also things that are bad for you. It's all right. There are things that are bad for radio and public television. We don't like this label of a radio, of a television, of public media that are independent. We don't like this feeling that public television is from a few, from the usual, from the same rope. We don't like those who concolate information with propaganda. We are not pleased with those who concocted his opinion with a political slogan. We do not like this minority, I insist, a minority of professionals who have become a group of apostolates and preachers of this process. We don't like this, Counselor, and we will report it and we will continue to report it. In short – I finish already – we need to improve the way to make the appointments, we need to put the batteries in the signing of the contract program, we need to work a little more for plurality and I think we need to activate among all a new law of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media. As you see, all this, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.204.0	Responses the Councillor of the Presidency, Mrs. Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.205.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... before you enter the four blocks in which you have focused your inquiry, allow me to place three more general premises with which I believe we can also agree. The first is that we do not conceive of this country without its public media, that they are strong, that they are of quality and that they are leaders. And since the government our unequivocal bet is for a model built around the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, from the work and effort of all the people who work there, putting in value their high professionalism; it is one of the main acts of the corporation. Therefore, let us agree and congratulate them, but all together – all together – our professionals. A public broadcaster, Catalan, which from all over the State is submissive to more mechanisms of control of its plurality and objectivity. Therefore, guarantees of control, guarantees of plurality, unequivocally compromises also in this plurality – then I will make reference to it. And it's that without this plurality, which also means credibility, the corporation wouldn't have the ratings it has. And, without any doubt, the best indicator of this pluralism is the good hearing, but also the appreciation that citizens make of it, if not that they think – and I am convinced that this is not the case – that viewers, that the listeners of Televisión de Catalunya, de Catalunya Ràdio, are creative and have no criteria. I am convinced that it is not so, that none of this chamber believes this, and, anyway, as I said, I will refer further, to these criteria and to these guarantees of plurality. You were beginning to refer to what for you is a derivative of a Catalan television and radio, innovative, leading to a sovereignist or independentist drift. Let's start with public television. It's a reflection of how the Catalan society evolved and where it went. And this is clearly seen in the data coming from the barometer of political opinion, the CEO, where we see that the option for an independent Catalonia, for example, has gone from 14_per_cent, the year 2006, to 40_per_cent in November of this past year 2015. Therefore, a public television that, as such, as public, adapts and evolves also according to this feeling that has also been evolving and that has been changing. It's not a television for a little while, if we take into account the audience data I'll be referring to later, but you know it perfectly and we've had a chance to talk about it in the control committee a few days ago. A television that only looks for sovereignty would not cover, for example, the investiture debate that is taking place at these times in Madrid, where TV3 performs a good part of the telenews from there, has moved different teams, a presenter, and broadcasts a good part of this session and of this sequence of the investiture debate, through channel 3/24, and absolutely all in direct from 324.cat. But there are other ways to measure, huh? This... this is what you're talking about from perception, from reflections... which are very respectable, but I'm talking about data, and objective data. Questions that receive more attention to telenews and that are not precisely focused on Catalonia-Spain relations, but, for example, from a given very concrete, the news time: the economic crisis and the global financial crisis, with a news time of 14,3_per_cent, according to the Complimentary Control Report of the Specific Missions of the Public Service of the Years 2013 and 2014, taking into account that the 2015 report is still in preparation. As I said, what does he spend more time on? To the global economic and financial crisis, or to the current international environment? , in this case with a 9,6, and along with that, with a 7,4, the debate about the different models of political organization in Catalonia or of relationship with the Spanish State. That's why he said: perceptions, reflections– you haven't mentioned any – respectable, legitimate, but we have to stick to these reflections and perceptions with absolutely objective data. And I said to him: as we believe this plurality to which you referred, for which you were also interested in the session of the board of control of the corporation or which has already been objected, here too, recently of a question that asked me, in this case, of the Ciutadans Group? So, as you know, our public media are under different controls: the Catalonian Audiovisual Council, which every month reports on these media, and the same Parliament, through the control committee, or the company's content and program advisor, also chosen for this Parliament of Catalonia, as well as the professional councils themselves, obviously, of TV3 and Catalonia Radio. These ACC reports, beginning with this, endorse pluralism; pluralism and proportionality. Moreover, it does so with the procedures that were agreed and that were worked in this Parliament; therefore, so we all agreed. Some data that I think are very clear and demuntarian – let me just say this – his thesis that TV3 is the television of a few. That's not it. Both the CEO's barometer and the 2015 CIS report coincide that TV3 is the first option Catalans prefer to inform themselves. The CEO gives us an important data: 45,3_per_cent, and the CIS, three tenths per envelope, 46,6_per_cent, along with the second options, which are The 1 of Spanish Television, with an 11,6_per_cent according to the CEO, or The Sixth, which follow the CIS would tend in this case an 11,9_per_cent. The same happens to Catalonia Radio, which occupies the first place of broadcasters that Catalans prefer to inform themselves. According to the CEO, also from 2015, a 33_percent of Catalans trien els informatius de Catalunya, followed by RAC1, with a 26_per_cent. And it's the reference broadcaster, Catalunya Radio, to follow political and electoral information, with a 25.9_per_cent. But we also have an analysis, as you know, of the qualitative ones shown by the 2015 GfK report, where TV3 obtained a mean quality index of 8.2 and is the most valued generalist television for Catalans, with 83_percent of viewers who believe that TV3 programs are of very high quality and that they have been, as you know, leaders in credibility, confidence and impartiality. But we can continue with pluralism and also refer to the debate, the warehouses, continuing with information as well: reports from the CAC, which it issues monthly, which show that all political forces represented in this Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, all have time to say. But it is that, moreover, if we take the history of the annual summaries, of the reports of pluralism 2012, 13 and 14, shows that the time devoted to different governments and political parties, to TV3's information, the sum of the PSC, the Socialist Party of Catalonia and the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, encapsulates it the balance of political formations of the past three years. Therefore, it is difficult to speak in terms of slogans and propaganda, as you do. He was talking to me about the Tertulians. I've been doing a roundup of Tertullians that I've recently been able to cop, huh? In a quick way, who have participated in different current programmes, they also respond to the plurality that exists in this same chamber; people who in previous stages have held political responsibilities in governments of different political colors in our country. Objective data, taking into account a context that has been very unfavourable, a context that has been very adverse, with an evolution of the consumption of audiovisual content in the last two years, without going further, or with a high fragmentation of audiences, and, obviously, being in competition, as we are, with televisions that have potential assumptions. But let's not forget – and I know you don't do it, but let's keep saying – ho –: we are talking, in the case of TV3, obviously, also in the case of Catalonia Radio, of public media, we are talking about a public television, which, therefore, has to elaborate and has to have quotas to give the maximum audience. But others that may not have so much, of audience, but that we also have to have them, we have to send them, we have to write them, because, if we don't do it, we won't do it – no one will do it. I went into other subjects to be able to give an answer to the four blocks to which you refer. We're talking about the nominations. Maximum, also, compromises – I said before –, maximum compromises with pluralism, maximum compromises with professionalism. Still feel a high value. You placed it in the past: it had been a high value. No, I'm still feeling it. You know perfectly well that the competence to name the executive positions of the corporation corresponds to the governing council and does so the governing council, on the proposal of its president, based on strictly professional criteria. You do not discuss the value of people who have recently been nominated, directors of Televisión de Catalunya and de Catalunya Ràdio, I thank you. I was also carrying a quick overview of his resumes and his career path. You disagree, in any case, about forms. Regarding its layout, but I think it's completely wrong, that the editorial independence of the corporation is fully guaranteed, with this model that buys it. Beyond this, you, in the same way as just a few days ago, the Citadans Parliamentary Group proposed as a great novelty these two thirds at the time of choosing the governing council of the Catalan corporation... If it was not necessary, if the current model with which the current president of the governing council was chosen..., and the same governing council was already able to escape..., because it exceeded in the name of voting these two thirds. I was running out of time; I didn't have the opportunity to refer to the program contract. I can explain to you why this situation is and what is the government's commitment; I will do it further, after the second part of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.206.0	The word has Mr. David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.207.0	Mrs. Counselor, we're talking about data, huh? I think you've been trying so hard to talk about data. Where do I start? For the auditions, TV3, any..., go, start for 2009, 43; 2010, 40; 2011, 38; 2013, 38; 2014..., sorry, 34; 2015, the one you commented, we're at 12.5, huh? There has been a permanent download of audience data from radio and public television. Now, Counselor, now we're at 12.5, the worst given to all, the whole historical series. You cannot say: "Well, look, as leaders, it is the best given. No, no, no, it's the worst of the whole history series, the worst of the TV3 share. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If it's true, Irene, it's true: it's the worst given of all the history series, the audience data of the radio and public television. Let's talk about the CEO: the same. It's true, you're right; it's to say, at this time, the year 2015, 41.7_percent of the population is informed through, basically, the media of the Catalan corporation, it's true, 41.7_per_cent. I explain the series: 2012, the 54; 2013, the 52; 2014, the 48; 2015, the 41, the worst given of all the historical series, there was no other worse, this is the worst given, and you get even with this given. Madam Counselor, you assume this is a good one. It's not true – it's not true. Report of the Pluralism of ACC. How's he a fan, these reports? With a vote, with a quality vote by the President. Not everyone agrees with these quality reports made by the Catalan Audiovisual Council, not everyone. Most people approve of the CAC President's quality report, and you know it. What do you want us to talk about? The CIS? No problem. The CIS stands, in the same direction as you stand, says: "No, this year we are fine... The worst given of all the historical series of the CIS, the worst of all. And you say that with these data, what we have, with these data of brutal reduction of radio share and public television, we're fine. So, it's not true, we're worse than ever. And if you link the share, the audience data, with plurality..., I wouldn't do it, but if you do it, and the audience is just about the way it is, you can't tell me that plurality is fine, you can't tell me..., as Mrs. Neus Munté said in one of her informative notes, through the council, you just said at this point: "The pluralism of public media is guaranteed by the approval of the citizens as a result of the audience indexes. It's not true; we've had the worst ratings in the last thirty-three years, the worst. You can tell me: "Well, they're painful, but we're still the best TV there is. Okay. But it's the worst ratings. I, miri..., of first of Sesame Barrio ; that is, if the audience lowers, the pluralism lowers. And the audience has downed, in the last few years the audience has downed; it has downed pluralism, Madam Counselor. But it's the same, we don't argue with this, we do it the other way around – we do it the other way around – that's to say, what do we have to do because there's more hearing? More pluralism. He's first in Sesame Barrio, too, isn't he? : If we want there to be more audience, we need to make more pluralism. And that's where I'd like to help you, ma'am. I honestly believe that these appointments have not been made with professionalism. Listen to me, I'm not saying, huh? ; not Ciutadans, that also; the PP, that also; Catalonia Yes it is Pot, that also; the Socialist Party ; the CUP, yesterday also said it– « the appointments have not been made with professional criteria –; all unions say it, all, all; the Journalist's College says it; everyone says it, Madam Counselor. I'm not saying that, just like that. They have not met professional criteria, they have met party criteria. I've got to go through with this. In any case, I'd also like to finish as you started. We also think that quality radio and public television, this country needs it, and count on us to have some quality public media in this country. But, look, a lot of people have doubts about the plurality of public media, doubts about party nominations, doubts about the ability to pull the program contract forward – which I hope you will say something about. And, in any case, we would also like to put the needle in front of the program contract, the new law and mechanisms that guarantee greater plurality and greater objectivity and impartiality. And I'm sure we'll find elements of consensus in all of this. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.208.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.209.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, what is also from Sesame District, as you said, is accepting the evolution that has occurred, the increase in channels and digital placards, or the fact that all, absolutely all, the chains have lowered their audience levels. For this fragmentation that I referred to before. Therefore, it is also first in Sesame neighborhood to sweep apples and pears. Or not accept that in these past years, the situation, from the point of view of the audiovisual space, has changed and evolved. Therefore, I do not pass, I find a reality respect to the leadership in audience, despite an extremely difficult context, as you know, not only from a presuppositional perspective, which also, and I refer to the difficulties that we have had, that you know that the same corporation has suffered and, in general, the assumptions of the Generality, of the Government of the Generality. But it's not less certain – it's not less certain – that this past year 2015 has closed the sixth year of leading Catalonia. That's what he does to TV3. Mai TV3 had been a leader for so long. And that was done, I insist, in the march of a very difficult economic stage. Also, for what he does to the radio, he closed the year 2015 with this annual audience record in thirty-two years. And that is to recognize and put into replenish an authentic reality. And if we're talking about the month of fever, now that we've been able to close the month of generation, they've won even a few tenths of what we talked about before: TV3_has closed with a 13.3_per_cent share of screen. And it's the one that came forward... and, by the way, the only chain that's increased an hourly point compared to the previous month. I insist, never, in thirty-two years, this had happened this way. Pass the program contract to what you did before reference, if I am convinced– I am already advancing it, in case after time..., to eat –, therefore, of the possibility of being able to establish it; I am convinced that, from the rigour, but from the acceptance and knowledge of reality, we can find common points to guarantee especially the public service that we lend from these public media. As you know, the fixed program contract, of a band, the concrete objectives of public service to be assumed by the corporation; in the second term, the organizational model of public service and the commitments of management of the corporation, and in the third place, the quantity that the Public Administration provides in each exercise and the indicators of follow-up. We don't have a signed program contract, despite the fact that a lot of work has been done and it has reached a point..., and even the public presentation of this program contract, as you know, the 2014 genera, but these two points, these two distances, the first and the second, are scrupulously completed by the same corporation. What, therefore, is the reason for which the program contract could not be signed? So, clearly, the causes are found in the surviving economic difficulties, which we could also place, at their own time, in three blocks. In the conflict of VAT, as you know, the State does not allow deducting the VAT of the years 2012, 13 and 14 to the autonomous communities; although with the Law of Presumptions of the 15th is returned the percentage relative to the year 2015, we still have in court the complaint for which it makes the return of the previous years. You know, also, perfectly – so I quickly – the feeling in favor of the workers of Catalonia Radio, then also recognized in favor of the workers of TV3, on the return of 5_per_cent of the remunerations, which were reduced, and, as you know, from an agreement with the same workers, therefore, from this, your return has been granted. But also a reduction of inputs that the corporation has suffered from 2010 to 15, which has been of 157_million euros, both for the reduction of advertising tickets and for the same contributions of the Government. Therefore, a 34_per_cent less of the tickets they had. This, and not another, is the motivation for which we cannot keep this signed program contract at any time, bearing in mind that we should be able to include, be able to fix, be able to determine. And this is not possible even today, despite the fact that we are working, of course, to give the highest level of clearance to all that the program contract supports: imports that the Government would have to provide in the next four years, in the next four years of the program contract, to finance in the most appropriate way the public audiovisual communication service provided by the Catalan corporation. I insist, the first two parts, which are not minor, of this contract program are strictly applied since 2013, and, for what it does to finance, we have a presuppositional situation stabilized, without prejudice to the conflict still open respect to the outstanding debt of the VAT or to this return granted, yes, of the 5_per_cent, with a calendar, I insist, that it is already absolutely valid. Compromise with plurality, compromise to improve to the extent possible an audience that is positive and that cannot be demerited – you say ‘not mark territories or ‘not demerited' –; we do not deserve this audience, the context difficulties and the excellent quality, not only from a point of view of professionalism, but also from the contents. And from here, we find forms of collaboration from a common goal that is to make this authentic public service possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2016-03-02-1001.210.0	They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Thank you so much and till tomorrow.
